Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions]   At this time I will turn the call over to Kathryn Koessel Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Koessel you may begin your conference.
Thank you James.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today and welcome to the review of our first quarter 2011 results.
Joining me are John Bryant our President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday May 9.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now let me turn it over to John Bryant Kellogg Company President and CEO.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
Our performance reflects the building of momentum in our business and represents a good start to the year.
We delivered strong top line results both in our North America and International businesses.
As Ron will discuss in more detail operating profit declined for the quarter on a year-over-year basis as timing of net price realization lagged input cost inflation during the quarter and increases in supply chain investments and advertising spending impacted our growth.
These results are also on top of the toughest quarterly year-over-year comparison that we faced in 2011.
We remain on track for the year raising our internal net sales outlook and reaffirming our 2011 internal operating profit and currency-neutral EPS guidance.
As we said at CAGNY regaining momentum is our primary focus in 2011.
Our first quarter results set us on the right path to rebuild momentum throughout the year.
We are in great categories which respond well to innovation brand building and nutrition  growth.
We are focused on exciting consumers with new innovation in every major category to drive top line performance.
As we shared with you last quarter and at CAGNY we plan to launch more than $800 million worth of new products in 2011.
Our first quarter results demonstrate the importance of innovation.
Within the U.S.
Cereal and Snacks categories we had over 60 share of all innovation dollars in the quarter.
We introduced the U.K.
cereal brand Crunchy Nut into the U.S.
where it was immediately embraced by consumers.
Our new Special K Oat and Honey cereal is off to a strong start as well.
In the Snacks business we benefited from the early success of Special K Cracker Chips.
Additionally Eggo launched Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles which in my opinion is the best waffle we have ever made.
Overseas we started off the year with strong innovation as well.
In Europe we introduced Special K Clusters and Krave Milk Chocolate cereals as well as 2 varieties of Rice Krispies squares.
Our five new varieties of Be Natural cereals continued to gain momentum in Australia.
Our focus on innovation continues with a solid pipeline that extends through the second half of 2011 and beyond.
We continue to invest heavily in brand building as demonstrated by our 10% spending increase during the first quarter.
This brand building helped support the introduction of our innovation to the market including programs behind Crunchy Nut Cereal and Special K Cracker Chips.
We still expect advertising to grow by low single digits for the year.
As we have discussed digital media is an important tool for increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of our ad spend.
With an ever increasing number of ways to target our consumers through new media platforms we can often spend less to reach the same and potentially larger audience.
Our goal is to engage our consumers forging stronger relationships with our brands whether through traditional television print media or online programs such as Special K Resolution.
Let me give you three examples of how we engage consumers and bring our programs to life.
An example of a recent integrated promotion is our Share Your Breakfast program part of our ongoing effort to drive category growth.
We are asking consumers to take a picture of their breakfast and post it on shareyourbreakfast.com.
For every breakfast shared we will donate one to a child in need giving away 1 million breakfasts.
We also celebrated National Breakfast Day on March 8 and served cereal to thousands of New Yorkers in Grand Central Station.
During this week we had the highest cereal consumption of the year.
Cheez-It is another great brand that benefits from strong consumer engagement programs.
In February we launched a campaign inviting consumers to help choose the next flavor of Cheez-It.
Consumers purchased samples and then went online to vote for their favorite flavor.
We had 29 million votes and nearly 1 million views on Facebook.
Not only did we engage with the consumer during the voting process we are now able to build brand loyalty through a digital connection going forward.
We believe that we're off to a solid start in 2011 and are well positioned to continue to build momentum throughout the remainder of the year.
Turning now to our results.
Let me take you through the highlights of the first quarter and how we are working to achieve our 2011 goals.
In North America we delivered strong top line results across the board with internal net sales growth of 3% versus 2% growth a year ago.
We are pleased by the return to growth of our North American Cereal business after a very difficult 2010.
We see improving trends in the category in general and in our business specifically.
The deflationary environment that defined 2010 improved during the quarter as average prices continued to increase across the category.
In our U.S.
Cereal business we posted a 2% increase in internal net sales driven by stronger innovation and higher promoted prices.
We were able to deliver this growth without the benefit of the full impact of increased list prices across much of our portfolio.
Across measured channels we gained 0.7 share points in the quarter.
Our base sales outgrew the category while our incremental sales declined which highlights the quality of our growth in the quarter.
We also saw strong performance in club and dollar with double-digit internal sales growth in both of these channels.
Kashi cereals stood out this quarter by delivering mid-single-digit internal sales growth and gaining 0.3 share points.
As the growth of this premium brand demonstrates not all consumers are chasing the latest deal and are prepared to pay for added value.
Our strong performance was also driven by robust innovation launched in January.
Crunchy Nut cereal gained a 0.6 share in the quarter while Special K Oats and Honey and Mini-Wheats Touch of Fruit In the Middle both gained a 0.3 share.
We will continue to support our strong first half innovation throughout the remainder of the year and we're excited about our second half innovation which includes Rice Krispies Gluten-Free and FiberPlus Caramel Pecan Crunch Cereal.
Turning to Retail Snacks.
We had a great quarter with broad-based sales growth.
Our North America Retail Snacks internal net sales grew 5% even against a tough comparative of 5% growth a year ago.
Pop-Tarts gained over share 2 points in the quarter driven by the introduction of 100-calorie Pop-Tarts Mini Crisps.
First quarter Cracker sales were up 4% and delivered a 2 share point gain in major channels.
Early 2011 innovation helped drive the result.
We had an overwhelming response to our Special K Cracker Chips.
It has been one of the most successful new product launches in the Cracker category in the past decade exceeding our expectations with a 1.5 share in major channels in the quarter.
Town House Flatbread Crisps were also up nearly a share point in the quarter.
The digital outreach I referred to earlier around the Cheez-It Choose the Cheese promotion helped drive additional sales as well.
Our second half innovation includes Cheez-It Colby the winner of the consumer voting campaign and Kashi TLC Peter Crisps.
During the first quarter we saw improving trends in our Cookie business with slight share gains and a flat sales growth.
We implemented Keebler Cookie line sales in anticipation of our upcoming Keebler Master Brand initiative.
This aligns all Keebler cookie pricing and packaging thereby creating scale behind the Keebler brand.
The new packaging will hit the shelves later this week.
Our recent innovation is performing well with 2 varieties of Fudge Shoppe Jumbo Fudge Sticks delivering a combined 0.4 share.
During the first quarter Wholesome Snack sales were up 6% and we held our share leadership in this health-focused category.
Across both our business and the category we saw increased price realization and strong innovation.
Our first half innovation including Special K dessert bars and FiberPlus caramel coconut bars helped drive our strong sales results.
Second half innovation includes a range of Keebler granola bars which target the afternoon snack occasion.
We are excited about the great start to the year in our Snacks business with strong sales share gains and base growth across most of our Snacks segments.
Our Frozen and Specialty business posted a 4% gain in internal net sales growth for the quarter driven by high-single-digit growth from our Frozen Foods business.
Our Eggo business which is celebrating its 75th anniversary this year continued to regain momentum growing consumption by more than 60% and nearly 12 share points in the quarter.
However our shipment growth was not as high as consumption this quarter as we lapped the rebuilding of trade inventory in the first quarter of 2010.
New products such as Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles which launched in late 2010 performed well gaining nearly a share point across major channels in the quarter.
We will continue to introduce more innovation in the second half.
The Veggie category remains strong growing at a healthy mid-single-digit rate.
While our Veggie shipments were down slightly we saw strong underlying consumption growth from Morningstar Farms.
We saw some decline in our Kashi Frozen Entrée business which we are addressing with more innovation in the back half of 2011 and across 2012.
Also our Foodservice business was largely flat in a difficult environment.
Turning to International business.
Outside North America we posted 2% internal net sales growth driven by strong top line performance in Latin America and growth in Asia Pacific.
This helped offset Europe's 1% internal net sales decline.
As expected the U.K.
faced a challenging operating environment a tough economy combined with a highly competitive retail landscape.
The U.K.
Cereal category was flat in the quarter in line with most U.K.
food categories while our cereal consumption was down 2%.
During the quarter we began to see positive trends on the continent.
Within our French business consumption increased 6% yielding a share gain of 0.6 points.
The Tresor and Miel Pops cereal brands helped drive this growth.
We continue to expect Europe to be our most challenging operating environment in 2011.
In the first quarter Latin America internal net sales rose 10% and volume increased 4%.
The increase was led by volume recovery in Brazil as well as higher average prices throughout much of the region including Venezuela.
In Mexico internal net sales were up slightly in the quarter against difficult comparisons.
Results in Mexico for the first quarter were also negatively impacted by a customer issue which is now largely behind us.
The Special K brand relaunch continued to drive share gains across the region.
Specifically in Mexico Special K gained nearly 2 share points.
In keeping with the transfer of great ideas we are rolling out the European favorite Krave cereal in Mexico during the second half of the year.
In Asia Pacific first quarter internal net sales grew by 2% driven by top line delivery in both the Cereal and Snacks businesses.
Strength in our South African and Indian businesses drove the top line offsetting softness in shipments in our Australian business.
Consumption in our Australian Cereal business grew more than 1% and we gained 0.4 share in the quarter.
First half innovation helped drive share with the introduction of 5 new varieties of Be Natural cereal with 1.5 share points for the quarter and a strong performance of Sultana Bran buns.
However our first quarter net sales growth does not reflect consumption due to a retail inventory build in the first quarter of 2010.
The Australian Snacks business continued its momentum increasing share by 3.2 points in a category growing approximately 14%.
South Africa was a bright spot for the quarter.
The cereal category grew at a double-digit rate and we delivered sales and share growth in the region.
Let me turn it over to Ron to walk you through our financial highlights.
Thanks John and good morning.
As John mentioned we are pleased with our first quarter results.
We delivered strong top line growth with net sales for the quarter increasing 5% on a reported basis and 3% on an internal basis.
Operating profit was down 10% on a reported basis and down 12% on an internal basis primarily as a result of increased commodity and brand building costs as well as investment in our supply chain.
Earnings per share declined 8% on a reported basis and 10% on a currency-neutral basis in the quarter and included the benefit of share repurchase activity.
Operating profit and earnings per share declined as we invested to build our momentum and remember that we lapped 17% growth in internal operating profit and 27% growth in currency-neutral earnings per share in the first quarter of 2010.
We recognize that we did not provide specific quarterly guidance.
However it is worth noting that we're pleased with our performance which was ahead of our expectations for the quarter.
Now I'll review the components of our financial performance.
Slide 14 shows the components of our net sales growth in the quarter.
Our volume increased by 1.8 points for the quarter driven by gains across our Cereal Snacks and Frozen Food businesses.
Price and mix contributed 1.3 points of growth.
We have executed our price increases as planned in the first quarter and they have been accepted by our customers.
You can expect price execution to have a greater impact over the balance of the year as we benefit from the first quarter increases and already announced second quarter pricing.
Currency contributed 1.9 points of growth for the quarter.
Slide 15 lays out our gross profit and gross margin performance.
Reported gross profit dollars were flat in the first quarter.
Gross profit dollars on an internal basis declined 2% in the quarter primarily due to increased input costs and planned supply chain investments for partially offset by the profit generated from our sales growth.
Our reported gross margin contracted 220 basis points to 40.8% in contrast to a year ago when our reported gross margin increased 190 basis points.
Our net price realization lagged input inflation in the first quarter.
We expect trends to improve as our previously announced price execution is fully recognized in our performance.
While we are currently hedged approximately 85% on commodities for 2011 we expect gross margin to remain under pressure from input inflation including fuel costs.
For the full year we now expect cost pressures on the cost of goods line to be in the 7% to 8% range and we expect full year gross margin to be down approximately 50 basis points.
Now let's turn to Slide 16 to review advertising.
As John discussed we are committed to investing in our brands through brand building activities.
This quarter we increased both advertising and total brand building by 10%.
Brand building includes advertising and consumer promotion events such as National Breakfast Day.
The most notable increases occurred in our North America and Asia Pacific businesses.
Investments behind our major innovation launches contributed to the growth in advertising.
Our investments also drove one of our strongest Special K Resolution events ever.
It is important to note that timing of our innovation launches and other key events can impact year-over-year comparisons.
We continue to expect advertising investment to be up low-single digits for the year and we are confident that our media investment is sufficient to successfully engage consumers.
Now let's turn to Slide 17 to review internal operating profit in more detail across the regions.
First quarter internal operating profit declined by 12% facing the tough comparisons I mentioned earlier.
North America internal operating profit also declined 12% against a 22% increase in the first quarter of 2010.
This was due primarily to higher input costs and increased brand building investment.
Europe's internal operating profit declined by 9%.
As John mentioned the challenging operating environment in the U.K.
impacted our sales performance.
In addition the benefit from our price execution is lagging significant input inflation in this region.
We expect sales and profits in Europe to remain under pressure this year.
In Latin America internal operating profit increased 1% for the quarter.
While sales grew 10% cost pressures were significant.
Much of our pricing is largely in place and we expect to benefit from this price execution as we progress through the year.
In Asia Pacific our internal operating profit decreased 23% in the quarter against a 10% increase a year earlier.
The decline in operating profit was driven by Australia which was lapping retail inventory growth in the first quarter of 2010 and increased advertising to support innovation launched in 2011.
Slide 18 provides an update on cash flow and our uses of cash.
In the first quarter cash flow was $207 million up slightly versus prior year.
For the full year we still expect cash flow to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion and we expect capital spending to be roughly 4% of net sales at the high end of our 3% to 4% long-term range.
In the quarter we repurchased more than $300 million of shares and we will continue to repurchase shares throughout the remainder of the year.
As we said on the fourth quarter conference call we estimate repurchasing approximately $800 million of shares in 2011.
Average shares outstanding are still expected to decline by 4% year-over-year as a result of 2010 and 2011 repurchase activity.
We also remain committed to returning cash to our share owners through dividends.
Last week we announced an increase to our quarterly dividend of 6% effective in the third quarter of this year.
Now let's turn to our outlook on Slide 19.
We currently expect internal net sales to grow approximately 4%.
This reflects recent price increases implemented to offset higher input inflation as well as improvement in our volume outlook for the year.
We now expect price and mix to be at the higher end of our 300 to 400 basis point range.
We expect volume to be roughly flat based upon our first quarter performance the strength of our innovation and improvements in category trends.
Internal operating profit is still expected to be flat to down 2%.
The increase to our sales outlook is offset by higher input costs.
As I mentioned earlier we anticipate cost pressures as a percentage of cost of goods to be approximately 7% to 8% up from our initial estimate of 7%.
Our estimate of cost savings remains the same at about 4% of cost of goods sold.
We continue to expect earnings per share to grow low-single digit on a currency-neutral basis.
This includes a full year outlook on our tax rate approximately 30%.
We have estimated the impact from currency at the forward rates in our Appendix.
We believe that forward rates are a more conservative approach than spot rates.
The latest estimate indicates $0.09 of benefit on forward rates.
This implies a reported earnings per share range of $3.42 to $3.49.
Currency movements can fluctuate positively or negatively so we will continue to update you with our estimates as we progress through the year.
And now let me turn it back to John for some closing remarks.
Thank you Ron.2011 is a year of building our momentum.
And with our first quarter results we're off to a solid start to the year.
We see positive signs with strong end market performance across many regions.
In the U.S.
we have increased share in most of our categories.
This performance reflects the importance of a strong innovation pipeline and effective brand building to drive top line growth.
I am confident that through continued investment and innovation and brand building we will continue to regain momentum in 2011 and beyond.
We are well positioned to grow our internal net sales at approximately 4% and to deliver our 2011 operating profit and EPS guidance and to reach our ongoing goal of delivering long-term sustainable growth to our share owners.
I'd like to thank our 31 000 employees whose continued dedication is enabling us to achieve this goal.
I'd now like to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions]   Our first question comes from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
I guess I'm struggling a little bit on your top line and your volume commentary.
So your volume was up this quarter but you're projecting flat for the full year? And if I remember correctly volume in 2010 was down.
So I guess for me there's little bit of a disconnect between what you're saying about the percentage of your sales that's coming from new innovation.
Could you maybe just walk me through your volume expectations for the full year because otherwise it's looking like your top line is basically all inflation.
Is that an accurate way to look at it or am I missing something? Here's how we think about volume.
We're expecting it to be sort of largely flat maybe down a little bit for the year.
And the first quarter was a great start.
We have volume growth of 1.8%.
We had strong innovation and you can see the benefit of innovation coming through in the volume performance in the first quarter.
However we had relatively limited amount of our price mix benefit in Q1 only 130 basis points.
And our same price mix is in the high end of the 300 to 400 basis point range.
So clearly there's a large amount of price mix that's built into the expectation for Q2 through Q4.
And that's going -- we expect that to have an adverse impact on volume.
This is the line of our P&amp;L which is probably the most difficult for us to predict.
Clearly the innovation's having a very positive impact but we do expect some price elasticity and some adverse impact on volume from the higher price mix performance in the back half of the year.
And then I guess a question -- kind of follow-on question then I'll leave it at that when do you expect the consumer then to accept price increases? Should we look 2012 the year kind of comes together and then you see the top line driven by more volume than pricing or is it just too early at this point? I think as you look at the consumer acceptance on our pricing first we step back.
The retailers have accepted the pricing that we're putting through since pulling into the market.
It's not fully in place in the first quarter because we took pricing throughout the first quarter and of course there's some element of price protection for deals that had already being negotiated before the pricing went into place.
So the pricing is moving through.
We expect there to be some adverse consumer reaction just because there’s a segment of population is under pressure.
At the same time there’s a segment of the consumer population that’s doing quite well and we see that in the growth of Kashi cereal.
So as we look at this year we're being cautious in our volume expectation.
I don't want to get into 2012 volume forecasting but if you look over the long term we expect our growth to be roughly 1/3 from volume 1/3 from price 1/3 from mix over time.
And our next question comes from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> At CAGNY you talked a little bit about looking to reinvest any earnings upside you might have this year.
I'm just curious to get a feel if you’re anymore less confidence that you will have some operating upside to reinvest by the time the year is gone.
And then to the extent that you do where would you be looking to prioritize that? And I know you just brought somebody on from a supply chain perspective so that kind of comes to mind is an area that you might look to spend some money.
I think the guidance we've given here is the right guidance.
I don't think we're giving guidance here that we think is conservative or we're going to beat; and therefore reinvest.
If you look at our first quarter the delivery of $1 of EPS in the first quarter is broadly speaking 29% of the full year EPS guidance.
And that is right in line with the 5-year historical average of about 29% percent of our EPS coming out of the first quarter.
So I feel like Q1 is on track with our full year expectations.
If we do get an opportunity to overdeliver and reinvest that's likely to be in the areas of brand building to continue to drive the top line momentum as we go into 2012 and beyond.
Your next question comes from Ken Zaslow from BMO Capital Markets.
I think on your third quarter last year you talked about a lack of support that kind of your non-measured channels kind of led to a 2-point drag on top line in U.S.
Cereal.
You didn't talk really towards that channel.
Can you give us where you stand on the momentum of regaining those share points in that channel and what you're doing to address those issues and where you stand? Well I think we're seeing improved performance from the non-major channels.
If you look at say club and dollar there's some good growth going on in those channels.
If you think back historically when we talked about non-major channels and let’s take the Cereal category as an example we would have said you'd add 200 to 300 basis points of growth to the major channels to get to a total category performance.
I would suspect right now you're adding about 90 basis points of growth or 1% of growth to the major channels to get the total category performance.
So the non-major channels last year were a bit of a drag this year.
They're growing a little bit faster but not as fast as they were say 3 or 4 years ago.
And our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
John just in terms of your outlook in Europe understanding that the business or the conditions in the U.K.
are tough.
But just in terms of -- if you could talk a little bit about just the improvements that you've made or the progress you've made improving some of the I guess some of the more secular issues that you were having there.
Then also just in terms of outlook how much of your outlook now is just colored by it's more difficult to price inflation through in Europe than it has been in the U.
S? Okay.
As we look at Europe as you said U.K.
is a tough market right now.
And there's a couple of things going on in there.
One is the Cereal category in the U.K.
as we said in the prepared remarks is flat and our consumption is down slightly.
We do have good innovation in the U.K.
and we do expect the trends to improve as we go through the year but it’ll take time to get us there.
Also in the U.K.
we have about 20% of our U.K.
business in the Snacks category and that business has actually recently moved to the biscuit aisle and that's disrupted that business to a degree.
So we have to take some time to work through that.
So it's not just cereals there’s also some issues in snacks in the U.K.
On the positive side we are seeing some green shoots if you like in Continental Europe.
As I said before the French consumption is up about 6%.
We saw some slight consumption growth in Italy and gained nearly a share point there.
Having said that Spain remains very difficult.
So it's a bit of a mixed component coming out of Continental Europe.
And we saw some good growth in Russia some double-digit growth in Russia in the quarter as well.
In terms of pricing in Europe Europe is one of the more difficult parts of the word to execute pricing.
We have executed our 2011 pricing actions in Europe.
So we've gone through the retailers and that's now flowing into the consumer environment.
All right.
So it’s fair to say that the biggest challenge in Europe right now is more just the macro issue as opposed to Kellogg-specific in terms of getting things moving.
I think so.
I think there's a macro element and then from a Kellogg-specific issue I’d say the snacks moving into the biscuit aisle in the U.K.
is a little bit specific us.
But beyond that it is more macro consumer concern.
And our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crèdit Suisse.
I was just wondering if you could give us a little color on how much commodity inflation you had in first quarter and then how it kind of ramps up as the year goes on.
And then a follow-up.
Yes of course Robert we'd be happy to.
First of all the first quarter performance we did expect our gross margin to decline in the first quarter.
Our cost pressures in the first quarter were very consistent with what we expect for the full year.
So they were in the 7% to 8% range and that's what we expect for the full year as well.
So we don't necessarily see a significant ramping up.
The issue for us in the first quarter obviously was that our pricing was settling into the marketplace and as a result our gross margin performance was down.
Okay.
And I thought I heard some color somewhere that the launch of Crunchy Nut was okay but not doing particularly great.
How does it compare compared to like other major launches you had? Just a little color on that.
I think Crunchy Nut is doing very well.
It still in the first quarter.
It's got about 0.6 share and it's at or above our launch expectation.
So we're very happy with the performance of Crunchy Nut.
And our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
John can you give us a sense as I know pricing was flowing through over the course of the quarter maybe some color on where towards the end of the quarter what sort of net price realization were starting to look like give us a better sense of maybe how to think about it in the second quarter and therefore obviously to get some comfort that you're going to be catching up if you will to some of the input costs you're seeing? Andrew this is Ron.
I'd be happy to help you with that.
When you look at the price mix improvements that we saw in the first quarter we communicated 1.3 points.
So our pricing was settling in over the course of the quarter.
When you look at the balance of the year what you'll see if we stick within this 300 to 400 basis points price mix improvement we said we'd be at the high end of that range.
That implies basically around 5 points of price mix benefit or thereabouts over the balance of the year.
You'll see that progressing in the second quarter and then clearly full impact in the back half.
But our second quarter will certainly be better than the first quarter.
Okay.
And then this is a really tough one to really know but with the way you're thinking about elasticity I think it makes sense to take a more conservative sort of wait-and-see approach.
But the way you're sort of modeling for internally is it any different than you might have been modeling for it based on what you learned back in '08 just because of the tougher consumer environment? Or is it really tough to model in any case anyway and you're just being conservative to be prudent? I think it's very difficult to get what the real elasticity number is going to be.
We have obviously a series of very complicated models to help us model out the elasticity and we tend to give it quite frankly a haircut of what those models tell us.
If you try and get a sense of how much elasticity is out there we're not seeing very much to date.
So the first quarter we do have some price mix we had within U.S.
Cereal our promoted price points were up 6% in the first quarter and yet we continue to get good merchandising support and the business continued to do well.
If you look say at another proxy around sensitivity to price is private label doing well were private labels down in share U.S.
Cereal.
It's down on all the international markets.
It's moving up or down by 10 20 basis points in some of the snack categories.
So as we look at the consumer elasticity with certain expectation out there for the past 3 quarters of the year that as we sit coming through the first quarter we're not really seeing a whole lot of elasticity yet.
Got it.
That's actually a very helpful perspective.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
You said that you had about a 60% dollar share of U.S.
Cereal innovation in the quarter.
Can you compare that to where you were last year and then maybe where you were another quarter -- another first quarter where you thought you had very good innovation coming into the year.
I think 60% is probably a bit higher than what you would normally do.
But certainly our innovation we're an innovation-intensive company.
We normally over-index on innovation.
So I think Cereal is a little heavier than normal.
I'd probably go back over to some of the snacks categories in the U.S.
where we really had very strong innovation and significantly out index what we have done historically and maybe even -- that's probably even true in some of the Frozen Foods elements as well.
But you don't have a number for last year? No.
I would suspect it was in the 40% to 50% range.
And that’d be closer to normal or below normal? That would be closer.
We would normally over-index by 10 to 20 points above our market share.
Our next question comes from Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
John two quick things.
Number one if you look in the U.S.
you guys continue to get some nice distribution gains.
I know those are coming against your SKU cut in the recent past as well as some of the troubles with Eggo.
But I'm wondering are there distribution gains elsewhere? And how much in promotional moneys are being spent to get those? For example maybe Wal-Mart returning to action Halle [ph] would be an example what I'm trying to get at there.
Terry you're right.
We are picking up distribution gains in a variety of places in the business.
I think what's driving that is actually the strong innovation pipeline and retailers wanting to support the innovation.
Retail is looking at that business and recognizing that to drive that business they need to bring news to the category news to the consumers and put that out in front of their consumers and so they are actively and aggressively seeking new ideas and then supporting them when we bring them to the retailers.
And just a quick follow-to just shifting quickly to Australia.
We hear there is obviously a tremendous price war going on there between the 2 big retailers.
My question is how much do you think that is compromising your Asia Pacific results? I think you see -- if you look in the first quarter as we said in the prepared remarks our consumption was up slightly.
We gained some share in Australia so we're happy with our end market performance.
But our shipments did lag the end market performance and that did pull down the segment results for Asia Pacific.
There's no question that the retail environment in Australia right now is very complicated and it is I guess a degree of risk as you look into the future because of that interaction between those retailers.
We're trying to navigate that as best we can.
Next question comes from David Palmer from UBS.
Question for you on just price elasticity of Packaged Food in general.
I think it was Andrew mentioned 2008 we look at the last 12 weeks of data across all packaged food pricing has been creeping up to about 2% in the last 12 weeks volumes trended off about 1% or so excluding some Easter category companies like Hershey.
So it does look like things are playing out okay in a way that would give us cautious optimism.
Is that the way that you see things now that the price elasticity doesn't look as bad as one-to-one or worse across many of your categories? Yes I think the price elasticity is probably a little bit less than 1:1.
And that's kind of what's built into our expectations.
If you think about what is embedded in our outlook here in the first quarter we had positive price mix of 130 basis points.
And we're expecting let's call it 400 basis points out for the full year so towards the high end of our 300 to 400 basis points range.
That implies that the run rate of price mix is going to improve quite a lot and our volume would be down slightly.
So it almost imply like a 2/3 a 0.6 0.7-type price elasticity is what's built into our outlook.
As I said earlier in answering Andrew's question we're not seeing a lot of elasticity just yet but that's what's built into our outlook.
And then a separate question on cost.
It seems very early to be talking about anything past 2011 on costs but these things tend to play out over time because people hedge and pre-buy supplies of things.
The current crop may be coming into focus energy costs are higher.
It feels like -- already like 2012 is going to be shaping up to be even more inflationary perhaps than 2011 in terms of everyone's actual costs and that the average food companies are going to be going in for a round of price discussions by the end of this year.
Is that -- I know you're not going to touch the pricing topic but does it feel like from a cost perspective that's the way it's playing out so far? David the way we look at it is we are in a long-term upward trend on cost of goods.
The supply of grains has been relatively limited the demand for grains is increasing whether it be ethanol production or whether it be emerging market consumption or direct grains or meat-based products.
And the result of that is you're going to see increased prices for grains over time.
And so we would look at 2012 and say yes it's probably going to be inflationary.
How inflationary we have to wait and see where all the supply demand shakes out and where the prices shake out.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi Investments.
Could you discuss -- you're wrote in the press release that the first quarter exceeded your internal expectations.
It was below the consensus so perhaps you could describe how it exceeded your internal expectations.
Yes David.
Be happy to handle that one.
From a top line perspective we did a little bit better than what we had expected particularly in our North America business.
From an underlying operating profit perspective we were a little bit better as well.
Our earnings per share was better as a result of our tax rate and a little bit of currency that flowed through there.
And also our cash flow came in a little bit better than expected.
So broadly across all of our key measures we performed slightly better than what we had planned.
And then moving on to the volume question.
I just want to follow up some of the things that some other folks asked.
We’ve done a lot of work here on your SKU rationalization from last year and it would look that you took a fairly large number of SKUs off-shelf.
When you think about this big surge in new product activity in 2011 number one is it incremental to your shelf space? And then second can you comment on your thought process on the incrementality of the $800 million in new products? I think if you look at the distribution gains we are seeing some level of incrementality from the new products from a shelf perspective.
It's never 100% incremental and there's always some in and some out at the same time but probably more incremental than normal given to your point the SKU rationalization that we executed last year.
And then we think about the incrementality of the $800 million the key there is when you do the innovation to innovate into areas that are going to bring new consumers into the category as opposed as you switch consumers around.
And we think that the add-on orientation of products like Crunchy Nut the direct taste orientation of those products really will help us bring new consumers into the category.
So we believe our goal is to make the innovation not just larger but more incremental over time and time will tell to see how well that works.
Finally two details what the upfront spend for the year? and what's interest expense guidance? Our upfront costs are in-line with what we previously communicated.
So we estimate approximately $0.12 of upfront costs.
And our outlook on interest expense is still in the range of $235 million to $245 million so still very consistent with previous communications.
Our next question comes from Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Housekeeping item on the supply-chain investment I noticed you had some favorability on the upfront cost line.
Can you quantify the supply-chain investment this quarter and confirm that it was not in the upfront cost? The supply-chain investments were not in the upfront costs.
And these are items such as people process and infrastructure that we're investing in.
I should point out though that those supply-chain investments are embedded or included in our cost pressures estimate of 7% to 8% for the year.
And I want to return to Europe.
There was some news about some restructuring in Europe and how you guys are segmenting the market.
And I was particularly interested about the focus on emerging markets there.
Can you talk a little bit about that restructuring and what if anything the implications are or how we should interpret the focus on emerging markets there? That restructuring was in our Russian business unit in Europe.
We closed one of the facilities one of the manufacturing facilities in Russia.
We have six facilities.
That's one of six.
We continue to be excited about the Russian business.
It’s achieved double-digit growth in the first quarter strong growth in Cereal just below 20% and so high single digit growth in Snacks as well.
So we feel like we're well-positioned long-term in Cereal and in Snacks in Russia.
And I would see that restructuring is just an opportunity to improve the profitability of the business so we can continue to reinvest in the business and gain long-term momentum in Europe.
Globally can you give us a sense of how big emerging markets are now and what that growth trend is? It's always difficult when you get into emerging markets and how much of the portfolio is there.
So we look at Latin America and say obviously all of that region for us is emerging markets.
You take Asia Pacific and just take Australia out of that and the rest of Asia Pacific would be an emerging market.
Even when you come across to Europe and you come out the U.K.
For us Continental Europe is an emerging cereal category.
It's relatively loyal for capital consumptions and has potential for long-term growth.
So we don't have a metric as such for emerging markets but you can see 10% growth in sales and on internal basis in Latin America in the first quarter some signs of growth returning on Continental Europe double-digit growth in Russia and if you took Australia out of Asia Pacific it would've been a very good growth performance as well with double-digit growth in India South Africa China in the quarter.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
I guess I have two questions.
One is the K-LEAN this is like the last year of kind of the ramp up of this savings that you had kind of put together a couple of years ago and yet sounds like inflation continues to be a challenge.
I don't remember who asked the question but how do we think about the kind of the outperformance on the K-LEAN and the cost savings kind of beyond this year? Eric when you look at our performance on this $1 billion challenge in K-LEAN we’re in the last year as you suggest of the $1 billion challenge and performing quite well against that we communicated roughly 4% of savings across cost of goods sold and K-LEAN is a big part of that.
However if you look back at what we demonstrated in the past we've been in the range of 3% to 4% of productivity savings against cost of goods sold.
So we feel quite comfortable that going forward we’ll still be in that similar range of opportunity.
And then just as a follow-up on I guess John you must've noticed the bid by ConAgra for Ralcorp going hostile and so now it looks like ConAgra may be a cereal company and they haven't historically been known as the most rational competitor.
I'm not sure that you would view Ralcorp as necessarily being a rational competitor with Post over the last year or so.
But how do you assess the change if that happens and just to the extent that you and General Mills maybe take some share this year within the category if you both kind of achieve your targets? What does that mean for the rest of the players out there whether it's branded or private-label? I can't really talk to Ralcorp or how their strategy may or may not change depending on who may or may not own Ralcorp.
At the end of the day we're driving our business and we know that what drives our business is strong innovation brand building nutrition and we're making those investments and improvements in our business and we're seeing the consumer respond to that.
So I think there'll always be a part of the Consumer segment that will play on price and private-label will play in that area and we're playing in the added value consumer engagement end of the category and it's working for us.
Can I just sneak in one more and that's just on the regulatory environment.
I know maybe 6 9 months ago when you guys had your recall the politicians were all over David and it seems like you were unfortunately the bit of a poster child for a while there undeservedly so in my opinion but in any case yet it seems like every day there's another article in the papers about the regulatory environment and the cost.
Is that another thing that's kind of -- that maybe isn't within COGS inflation but could be in SG&amp;A inflation? I think the regulatory environment's coming in 2 different places and one is to the point we've had some unfortunate issues over the last couple of years such as the cereal liner issue.
And to Ron's comments earlier we are making the supply-chain investments to try to protect our source from those sorts of issues going forward.
The other regulatory issue is things like restrictions on advertising to kids and so on and the 4 agency release that came out late last week.
And as we look at that we believe that we make great foods for consumers.
We believe that cereal is a low-calorie nutrient-dense food form.
People who eat cereal whether they're kids or adults have a lower body mass index than people who don't.
And we just quite frankly don't understand why you'd want to restrict advertising on what is essentially a very healthy food to people.
So obviously that can have an impact over the last couple of years.
We have made significant changes to our food in terms of reducing sugar reducing salt.
There’s been costs associated with that that were borne in our P&amp;L through the cost of goods line.
And we've moved the spend of some of our brand building for more kid-targeted to mom-targeted and that's resulted in some inflation in our SG&amp;A line as you point out in terms of just higher cost of media.
So it is coming through a little bit in our financials.
We are moving with it over time.
I’m hoping that we can have a good dialogue here about what really is good public policy as we go forward.
The next question comes from Alexia Howard with from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Can I ask about your international expansion strategy? We're a few years beyond the acquisitions that you made in Russia and China.
Perhaps you could comment sort of in hindsight what the biggest lessons learned from that from those moves were and how that shaped your strategy going forward.
I'm thinking particularly with respect to Brazil.
Right good question Alexia.
I don't want to talk specific about any individual market.
If you look back over the last 3 years or so we have made a couple acquisitions such as Russia and China and a joint venture with Ulker in Turkey.
And I think we've learned some things from that a part of it is to make sure that when we buy businesses we buy businesses with a degree of scale and strong brands.
And when we do joint ventures that we JV with companies like Ulker companies that have strong positions in market.
So as we go forward there are some parts of our geographic footprint that we want to improve the footprint and will look to those sorts of joint venture-type ideas and will look to continue to make acquisitions and the extent to which we make acquisitions we want to ensure that we're buying a strong business in that market with strong brands.
The last question comes from Eric Serotta from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just wondering whether the restoration of incentive comp accruals had an impact on the year-over-year basis in the first quarter or whether you are accruing in the year-ago at normal levels and the adjustments are really later in the year as results started to disappoint.
Yes Eric in the first quarter virtually no impact from the restoration of our incentive compensation accruals.
There'll be some impact in the second quarter but much of it really falls into the back half of the year.
And recollect we communicated in the third quarter the impact of adjusting our incentive compensation accruals downward last year.
So virtually nothing in the first quarter.
It's all Q2 to Q4.
LLC</strong> Okay and that was if I remember correctly for the year you're looking for about 400 basis point drag on internal segment operating profit from restoring IC levels? I think what we said Eric it was about 6 points of operating profit and then we discussed the impact to the cereal recall and we said that was about 2 points of tailwind for 2011.
So the net was about 4 points.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to call me.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I will turn the call over to John Bryant President and CEO of Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Bryant you may begin your conference.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today and welcome to the review of our second quarter 2011 results.
I am joined by Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer.
Unfortunately Kathryn Koessel our Vice President of Investor Relations could not be with us today due to illness.
We all hope she gets better soon.
The press release and the slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday August 1.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now let me turn to our second quarter performance.
We are pleased to announce solid second quarter results which demonstrate that we are beginning to rebuild our momentum following a very difficult 2010.
While these results are against relatively soft comparisons in 2010 we delivered strong top line results and internal operating profit as increasing benefits and price mix helped to offset higher input costs.
The highlight of the second quarter was very strong share results across our U.S.
business driven by innovation brand building and execution.
We have also seen improvement in our core categories as broad-based pricing actions have helped to mitigate increased cost pressures.
Specifically we gained 1.7 share points in U.S.
cereal in measured channels with 35.5 share across the quarter.
We also gained share in waffles toaster pastries crackers and wholesome snacks.
Our momentum also improved in our international business with sales growth across all 3 regions.
Based on increased net price realization and our confidence in our innovation we are raising our internal 2011 net sales outlook and reaffirming our 2011 currency neutral EPS guidance.
Ron will speak more to our guidance shortly.
We had a solid start to the year and continue to be on track with our 2011 plans.
That said 2011 remains a year of rebuilding in a difficult consumer and retail environment.
Turning now to our results Ron will take you through our financial highlights.
Thanks John and good morning.
During the second quarter we continued to execute against our plan to gain momentum in our business and we are pleased with our results.
Our price realization improved in comparison to our first quarter and we invested in innovation and brand building.
We delivered strong top line growth with reported net sales growth of 11% and internal net sales growth of 6%.
And we grew sales across all of our operating segments.
Operating profit increased 12% on a reported basis and 8% on an internal basis driven primarily by our North America and Latin America businesses.
Earnings per share grew 19% on a reported basis and 13% on a currency neutral basis.
Earnings per share growth included a benefit from reduced average shares outstanding as a result of our share repurchase program.
Slide 5 shows the components of our net sales growth in the quarter.
Our volume increased 0.6 points for the quarter driven primarily by easy comparisons to the second quarter of 2010.
Our volume growth through the first half of the year is in line with our expectations.
Price and mix contributed 5.4 points of growth as we recognized the full impact of our first quarter pricing some select additional pricing in the second quarter and mix improvements.
We expect to see the positive impact of our net price realization increase throughout the remainder of the year.
As a result we are increasing our full year 2011 internal net sales growth guidance to a range of 4% to 5%.
Currency contributed 4.6 points of growth for the quarter.
Reported gross profit dollars in the quarter were up 11%.
Internal gross profit dollars grew 6% reflecting strong net sales growth.
Our price realization and cost savings initiatives covered input cost inflation.
This allowed us to manage gross profit margin flat compared with a year ago at 42.6%.
Over 90% of our commodities for 2011 are hedged.
For the full year our cost pressures are now expected to be at the high end of our 7% to 8% range.
Full year gross margin is still expected to be down approximately 50 basis points.
Now let's turn to advertising.
In the second quarter we grew advertising 3% on top of 4% growth in the second quarter last year.
We made meaningful investments behind innovation and marketing programs and our advertising investment was up 6% on a year-to-date basis.
Brand building which includes both advertising and consumer promotion events was up 4% in the quarter.
We are confident that we have good investment levels to support consumer events that will help drive our momentum.
As we have refined our plans for the year we have made some shifts in investment from advertising to consumer promotion events.
It is important to note that this is a shift to consumer-directed events not price promotion.
We know that consumers are motivated to purchase products that include on-pack promotions.
Examples of consumer promotion events include our Special K challenges a promotional offer in connection with the Cars 2 movie property that allowed consumers to collect on-pack codes and then redeem them on the Internet for prizes.
These are fully integrated consumer promotion events that create another platform for consumer engagement.
Internal operating profit grew 8% for the quarter driven primarily by strong sales growth our cost savings initiatives and lapping the cost soft comparisons in 2010.
This performance was partially offset by input inflation and brand-building investments.
North America internal operating profit rose 11% against the 16% decline in the second quarter of 2010.
The increase in operating profit reflects strong net sales growth which more than offset higher input costs and increased brand-building investments.
Europe's internal operating profit declined 9% driven primarily by the challenging operating environment in the U.K.
and input inflation across the region.
We also lapped the strong 6% growth comparison in the second quarter of 2010.
As we said on our last call we expect Europe's results to remain under pressure this year.
In Latin America internal operating profit jumped 19% for the quarter driven by strong sales growth partially offset by a double-digit increase in brand-building investment.
In addition the performance includes the impact of several discrete items such as the gain from the sale of our previously closed plant in Guatemala.
Excluding the discrete items Latin America internal operating profit grew approximately 10%.
In Asia Pacific our internal operating profit increased 3% in the quarter.
The growth was primarily driven by price executions across the region.
Slide 9 provides an update on our cash flow and the uses of cash.
Our cash flow year-to-date was $403 million $43 million below last year.
Higher capital spending combined with timing of working capital contributed to these results.
We now expect full year capital spending to be in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales above our previous guidance of 4%.
Our outlook for 2012 will likely be in a similar range.
Our long-term annual target remains in the range of 3% to 4%.
The increase in capital spending is driven by investments in our supply chain infrastructure.
Despite this increased spending we still expect full year 2011 cash flow to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We remain committed to returning cash to our shareowners.
Year-to-date we have repurchased more than $500 million of shares including nearly $190 million in the second quarter.
We plan to repurchase shares throughout the remainder of the year and still anticipate repurchasing approximately $800 million of shares in 2011.
Our average shares outstanding are now expected to decline by 3% to 4% year-over-year.
As announced in April our quarterly dividend will increase by 6% in the third quarter of this year on top of an 8% increase in 2010.
Now let's turn to our full year 2011 outlook.
We expect internal net sales to grow in the range of 4% to 5% as we have better visibility to the benefits from our price execution and the mix improvements.
We still expect volume to be approximately flat.
As I indicated earlier our first half volume performance is in line with our expectations and supports our outlook for the full year.
Internal operating profit is still expected to be flat to down 2%.
The increase in our sales outlook is essentially offset by increased cost pressures.
As I mentioned earlier we now expect cost pressures as a percentage of cost of goods to be at the high end of the 7% to 8% range as a result of these increased costs.
Our estimate of cost savings while slightly lower remains at approximately 4% of cost of goods sold.
We continue to expect earnings per share to grow low single digits on a currency neutral basis in the range of $3.33 to $3.40.
And while we generally do not provide quarterly guidance I want to highlight that we are lapping a significant reduction to our incentive compensation costs in the third quarter of 2010.
Remember that we cited the impact was approximately 10 points of operating profit last year in the third quarter.
This creates considerable headwind to our third quarter comp.
As a result we expect our third quarter reported earnings per share to be down slightly from last year.
There were also a few moving pieces below the line that I'd like to highlight.
We expect our tax rate to be approximately 29% versus the original 30% estimate.
As I mentioned earlier our share repurchases are likely to provide 3% to 4% improvement to earnings per share versus our previous expectation of 4%.
These 2 items are relatively offsetting below the line.
The estimated impact from currency is in our appendix.
The latest estimate indicates that the benefit from currency is in line with our previous estimates of $0.09.
This implies a reported earnings per share range of $3.42 to $3.49.
We'll continue to update you on any meaningful changes to currency in our third quarter conference call.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thank you Ron.
Before I discuss our end market performance I would like to take a moment to discuss our supply chain.
First of all we have very talented and dedicated people who have a great track record of delivering top-quality food.
We have a new head of Global Supply Chain from outside the company who has been with us since April and has hit the ground running.
Second we are also making important investments in our facilities including infrastructure equipment and people.
Third we have also made significant enhancements to our supplier programs.
We view these operating costs as an ongoing increase in our cost structure and as we mentioned last quarter these investments are included in our 2011 guidance.
We also expect as Ron mentioned earlier a higher level of capital spending for the next few years.
We are making good progress and are confident these investments will help mitigate future risk and more importantly drive our long-term supply chain capabilities and strengthen our company.
Now let me turn to a discussion of our end market results.
In North America we delivered strong top line results across the board with internal net sales growth of 8%.
We are pleased with our second quarter results in our North America cereal business with internal net sales growth of 13%.
This growth was largely driven by softness in Q2 2010.
Our measured channel consumption growth was approximately 5%.
The category dynamics continued to improve in the quarter.
We estimate that across all outlets category sales grew for the first time since the third quarter of 2009.
These positive trends were reflected in our results.
Our growth was driven by good base performance supported by our 2011 innovation and first half net price realization.
Our share grew 1.7 points in measured channels in the quarter bringing us to a 35.5 share.
We also saw broad-based share gains across virtually all of our alternative channels.
Our strong commercial plans helped us to generate this performance.
For example with the support of an effective advertising campaign we saw high single-digit growth in Frosted Flakes.
Our innovation continued to drive results as the recent launch of Crunchy Nut continued to perform well with a 0.6 share and Mini-Wheats' new innovation Touch of Fruit [in the Middle] had a 0.4 share.
Kashi cereal had another strong quarter delivering mid-single digit internal net sales growth.
BearNaked grew double digits as consumers continue to respond to our leading natural cereal offerings.
Our back half innovation includes the recently launched Rice Krispies Gluten Free cereal and FiberPlus Caramel Pecan Crunch cereal.
We are targeting Rice Krispies Gluten Free to a passionate community and as a result it was the #1 selling Kellogg product on Amazon in June.
Turning to Retail Snacks.
We had a solid quarter with 3% growth driven by strength in our cracker business.
We gained share in crackers wholesome snacks and toaster pastries in the quarter.
Second quarter cracker sales grew 12% and gained 1.2 share points in measured channels driven by increased net price realization good execution and strong innovation.
We saw 8% net sales growth and a strong 0.5 share growth across our big 3 brands: Cheez-It Town House and Club.
Our 2 varieties of Special K Cracker Chips launched in January have exceeded our expectations and hold over 1 share point in measured channels.
We also have solid second half innovation which includes Cheez-It Colby and Kashi TLC Pita Crisps.
In cookies in the second quarter we successfully launched the Keebler master brand initiative which aligns cookie pricing packaging and scale behind the Keebler brand.
The shift caused a reduction in activity during the second quarter which impacted our merchandising results.
However our base sales were strong and outpaced category-based sales growth.
Keebler Fudge Shoppe continued to perform well and we had strong innovation with Coconut Dreams JUMBO Fudge Sticks and Mint Creme Middles.
During the second quarter wholesome snacks lapped tough year-ago comparisons.
In measured channels we gained 0.4 share points.
Across our business we saw improved net price realization and strength from Special K Fruit Crisps and FiberPlus bars.
Recently introduced Keebler Fudge Granola (sic) [Granola Fudge] Bars are showing positive consumer acceptance with a 0.6 share.
Pop-Tarts gained over 2 share points reflecting continued performance from the Pop-Tarts Mini Crisps innovation.
Our frozen and specialty business posted a 10% gain in internal net sales growth for this quarter driven by double-digit growth from our frozen foods business.
Our 2011 innovation includes Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy Waffles and the reintroduction of Kashi Waffles which are both off to a great start.
We recently launched our second half innovation which includes a Nutri-Grain Honey and Oat waffle and 2 SKUs of Eggo Mini Muffin Tops.
We are excited about the veggie category with sales growth of approximately 4% in the second quarter.
Reflecting this trend our Morningstar Farms business grew approximately 5% and gained 0.4 share points in measured channels.
Our food service business remained soft in the quarter due to a continued difficult operating environment.
Turning to our International business.
Outside North America internal net sales rose 3% driven by growth across all regions.
Internal net sales in our European business grew 1% driven by a positive performance in France Italy and Russia.
In the U.K.
we began to see early signs of improvement in cereal despite the tough consumer and trade environment.
However the U.K.
snacks business continues to struggle as we face a tough environment.
We expect strong performance from cereal innovation in the back half with Minimax a new whole grain product that is high in fiber and low in sugar.
We are also relaunching All-Bran with All-Bran Golden Crunch.
In snacks we are introducing Rice Krispies Squares Chocolate Orange flavor.
We're starting to see better results on the continent with Tresor and Extra cereals continuing to grow share in France.
Not only do they contribute to net sales growth but also help to expand the ready-to-eat cereal category serving as a good example of the importance of innovation for both us and the category.
We also grew share in Italy and saw a consumption growth in Spain.
In the second quarter Latin America internal net sales rose 7% supported by the successful implementation of list price increases across the region.
Volume growth in Brazil and the strength in Colombia also contributed to the strong results.
Mexico delivered flat net sales due to the first half retail trade issues which contributed to the softer share performance and slightly lower volume.
We believe these issues are behind us.
The Special K relaunch continued to gain momentum across Latin America.
In August we are launching Krave cereal in Mexico capitalizing on our success in Europe and a growing chocolate segment.
In Asia-Pacific second quarter internal net sales grew by 4% driven by strong top line performance in India South Africa and Korea.
We saw a modest growth in our Australian business reflecting the difficult retail environment.
We have strong back half innovation including Special K Fruit and Nut medley cereal and 2 varieties of Special K dessert bars.
All in we are pleased with our first half results which are in line with our expectations.
We are seeing improving category dynamics and strong share growth driven by our increased innovation and brand building.
While it is important to note that the consumer and retail environment remains difficult we are confident we can meet our 2011 guidance and continue building momentum.
I'd like to take a moment to thank all of the Kellogg employees customers and consumers for their ongoing support.
Now let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from David Palmer from UBS.
I just want to ask you about that U.K.
trend.
You mentioned the struggling consumers being part of the reason for the issues over there.
I had heard that retailers were being particularly aggressive in having these "buy one get two free" type deals and it was my impression that the retailers were really driving a discounting war over there particularly in cereal.
Could you comment on that? And you mentioned new product news you seem to be implying that perhaps there is some hope of stabilizing trends here in the second half of the year.
Yes David.
If you think about as we came into the year we said that Europe would be the most difficult operating environment for us.
And within Europe it's really the U.K.
that's giving us the greatest number of challenges.
And within the U.K.
we are seeing improving trends in cereal.
The cereal category is still struggling and we actually declined a little bit in the quarter.
But that's an improved trend from where we've been say last year.
So I think the category and the dynamics are improving but they're kind of lagging behind the improvement we've seen in the U.S.
cereal category over the last 6 months or so.
And so basically if that 6 months lag holds true then perhaps things might look a lot better or look a bit better in 3Q? We are expecting the performance to get better.
As we said we have innovation coming at the back half of the year.
I don't think the business is going to turn on a dime.
I think it will continue to have a tough back half but I do expect the trends to continue to improve across the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Tim Ramey from D.A.
Davidson.
Just following up on Europe a little bit.
Is that a trade-driven phenomena entirely or -- I mean the category you mentioned is still soft.
What do you really see going on there as the driver of the softness? I think the U.K.
is a very tough consumer environment right now.
The consumer's very depressed.
I think retailers are trying to give the best offer they can to consumers and I think that manufacturers -- like ourselves going back a year or so we were also trying to follow a similar path.
And that did lead to a very similar dynamic in the U.K.
cereal category to what we had in the U.S.
cereal category last year.
I do think with inflation coming through and cost pressures coming through you are seeing improving trends in that U.K.
cereal category but it's still lagging the trends we're seeing in the U.S.
So you feel that the discounting environment softens a bit based on higher input costs? I don't want to talk to the future but certainly what we're seeing over the last 6 months is it's starting to soften a little bit.
Our next question comes from Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
John just a quick question on U.S.
cereal.
Obviously the recall I think kind of distorts last year's performance in the second half.
But if you look at it I guess more on a normalized basis do you anticipate a more normal level of promotion here? And I'm talking sales on deal mainly coming from your competitors General Mills and particularly Post where -- a lot of things are going on over there.
How are you looking at the promotional intensity in the second half? Yes.
It's very hard for me Terry to comment on promotional intensity in the second half and talk about what competitors may or may not do.
But if you look at the second quarter results if you look at the category in the category price per pound was up about $0.13 in the second quarter.
Base price or price on shelf was up $0.09 and dealt volume or incremental sales was up $0.16 per pound.
So we're seeing a little bit of a pullback in the amount of activity and an increase in the pricing that's being realized when merchandising activity does occur.
I think that just reflects the intense cost pressures going on in the marketplace and I think we have to wait and see how the back half plays out.
Well as you sit here today though are you anticipating any change in those kind of trends? No I'm not.
And I'm not because I'm not anticipating any changes in the cost trends either.
So I do believe that we're seeing these improved trends in the category and I expect them to continue through the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
John you mentioned volume was up overall around a little over 1% through the first half and still expecting sort of flattish volumes for the year.
So I guess that suggests potentially volume a little bit weaker as more pricing comes through in the second half.
Last quarter I think you had talked about elasticity being -- at least at that stage while it was early pretty minimal.
Is the volume sort of deceleration coming because you've seen some different trends in elasticity as to where this pricing came through in the second quarter? Or again is it just "let's hope it's better but in this kind of environment we just don't want to bank on it"? Andrew I think we're seeing the volume performance that we expected to see.
So we're right on track from our internal expectations.
We have had some benefit in the first half of the year from a volume perspective as we lapped through the Eggo disruption and the cereal recall.
We do have more price mix coming in the back half of the year.
And so we do expect our volume to be soft in the back half of the year than the front half of the year.
So I would say that we have not been surprised by the elasticity.
There has been some elasticity as you'd expect given the amount of price mix that's coming through the business.
But it's right in line with what we anticipated.
And it's early I know but based on where costs are sort of today for you and some of the fiscal year companies that have started the new fiscal year have talked about inflation levels that are even higher than sort of the high end of 7% to 8% that you're currently seeing for this year I mean do this suggest -- I think you'd maybe mentioned some additional pricing actions that you took in the second quarter.
I just wanted to make sure I heard that right.
And then from the industry as a whole maybe not just Kellogg do we see more pricing in the back half to kind of get better set up for where '12 might be? Do you think? Well Andrew I can't really talk about prospective pricing.
We did take additional pricing actions in some markets around the world in the second quarter.
And we as we look out to 2012 are expecting another year of fairly significant inflation.
Our next question comes from Eric Serotta from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Looking at the guidance you still have a pretty wide -- I think it's $0.07 range for the year.
With 2 quarters in the books and a pretty good visibility as to your cost structure for the rest of the year I'm wondering why the guidance range is as wide as it is.
Could you talk about some of the puts and takes that you're seeing or that you could potentially see that would cause you to be towards the upper or lower end of that range? Eric this is Ron.
We're comfortable with the range of the guidance that we've given for the full year and how we look at our back half as well.
Keep in mind there are a lot of moving parts here.
We had said that we're about 90% hedged on commodities.
So we've still got approximately 10% open at this point in time and we're still seeing our price realization settle in from what we've taken over the front half of the year.
So there's still some things moving around.
Clearly as our price execution gets taken we're expecting volume to be a little bit softer in the back half of the year probably down approximately 1 point.
We need to see how the consumer reacts.
So we're keeping that range at low single digits on a currency neutral basis and we're comfortable with that at this point.
Okay.
And then briefly I thought Ron made a comment that your cost savings were coming in a little bit lower than anticipated.
Could you elaborate on that and then discuss why that's the case? Yes it's not significant Eric but I did want to point it out.
We've said approximately 4% in the past.
It's about 20 basis points lower than plan.
And keep in mind this is an estimate when we start the year in terms of our cost savings expectation.
And our next question comes from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask about the investments that you mentioned in the supply chain on both the capital expenditure side and perhaps the expense side as well.
Want to get a sense to how far through we are on that.
Is this something that's going to continue to step up in coming years or do you think it's sort of in somewhat of a later inning? How are you thinking about that at the moment? Well Alexia if you think about it in 2 buckets one's the expense piece and the second is the capital piece.
On the operating expense piece we view these costs as ongoing.
We've got about a $30 million increase in these sorts of investments this year versus last year.
As we go into 2012 we'd expect to probably hold at that level.
It's too early to give that sort of guidance but we don't see any reason at this stage why it would step up.
And on capital expense -- capital itself we're spending about $160 million $170 million this year on capital in this sort of area.
So it's a meaningful investment.
And as Ron said we do expect that capital would be sort of in the 4% to 5% range as we go forward for next couple of years just as we continue these investments.
And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the volume question so it sounds like based on your comments and based on the data the share momentum actually looks pretty strong with innovation execution the retailers' support on the merchandising just really firing in all cylinders.
Your comment that volume is basically tracking in line with expectations you think it's more reflective of internally you're doing all the right things and things are actually better but just the macro is pretty challenging and that makes the category and just the broader -- the markets themselves a little bit more muted.
So if we start to see the category turn the share momentum potentially drives better volume performance is my first question.
And then secondly just on the reinvest John you've talked about a number of times potential 2011 really being more of a rebuilding year coming out of a weak 2010.
So maybe talk a little bit more about if you do get a potential upside where the reinvestments could potentially direct to.
Is it marketing advertising? What categories and what geographies? First on the volume piece.
We feel very good about how our business is performing.
We have strong innovation out there.
As you pointed out we're seeing good market share gains and we think that the plans are really bearing fruit and the team is doing a great job.
So I think on the volume side we're looking good.
And I think that what's really happening is the level of price mix that's coming through is putting a bit of a dampener on that volume growth.
And so I'd say it's a combination of the macro environment the consumer's under pressure and the need for us to take pricing to reflect the high level of cost pressures that we have.
Certainly on the volume piece -- on the back half Ron do you want to talk on the back half outlook? Yes Judy let me talk a little bit about our second half profit outlook.
We feel comfortable right now with the guidance that we've given.
If you look at our second half from an operating profit perspective it would imply based on the first half we intend to be up about 3 to 4 points on internal operating profit.
Remember we're lapping some headwinds as a result of this adjustment we made to incentive compensation in the third quarter where we reduced our accruals last year.
And also there's an impact of that in the fourth quarter though we know we're lapping the China impairment.
If we take those items and set them aside and look at the comparable growth rates on operating profit in the back half we're somewhere in the neighborhood of 9% to 12% growth on an internal operating profit basis.
So we feel comfortable we've given the right guidance at this point in time.
Judy I guess what we're saying there is that that back half we view that as a challenging but appropriate guidance.
If we do have upside we'll reinvest it back in brand building but our expectation is that guidance is good solid guidance.
And our next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Just maybe -- just a quick follow-up on Judy's question.
So in your guidance today for the year you're including the $29 million charge in the fourth quarter that you took for the China impairment? That's embedded in the base Eric.
Yes absolutely.
So we recognize we're lapping that when I just talked about the performance expectations.
Just to clarify.
So in the back half of the year we have about $100 million of bonus headwind about $29 million of tailwind from China.
When you adjust for those 2 items our guidance implies 9% to 12% in operating [ph] profit growth in the back half of the year year-on-year.
All right.
And then you called out this Guatemala gain on -- I guess it was a facility sale.
I mean in Latin America a couple of percent to me it doesn't sound like much.
But was there any material like after-tax amount on that? Or like what was the pretax versus the after-tax value of that sale? Yes.
The pretax amount of the sale was about $6 million.
Now we had some other discrete items partially offsetting that and that's why we communicated up 19% in Latin America but if you adjust for these discrete items more like up 10%.
And then it would have been tax-affected [ph] at the normal rate.
Okay.
And then the last question I had which I didn't exactly understand your explanation of operating cash flow.
So on the one hand you're raising CapEx to deal with all the supply chain issues which is a good thing.
Working capital is higher than you expected because of the inflationary pressure and you're telling us that that's probably likely to continue into 2012.
So you're not changing your net income forecast.
So what am I missing that's keeping free cash flow in the same range? Because it seems to me that if anything given those factors you named free cash flow should be coming in at the low end.
Yes.
Fair question Eric.
First we are comfortable with the $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion guidance.
If you think of the raise that we did in capital spending our capital spending is up about $100 million on a year-to-date basis.
That's virtually all of the increase that we expect to occur this year.
So our back half capital spending should be pretty comparative to last year.
We mentioned the timing on working capital.
So our working capital is a little bit higher.
We didn't say necessarily that that working capital was going to carry through the end of the year.
In fact we believe that that's going to turn around pretty quickly on us and we've even seen some of that turnaround as we've started out the third quarter here.
And we're good at managing working capital.
So as we look at the cash flow performance we feel comfortable that we'll be in this $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range.
Keep in mind as well what we're lapping last year which was around $1 billion of cash flow delivery before the pension contribution that we made.
We had a very soft back half operating cash performance the underlying cash performance Eric and we'll be lapping that in the second half of this year.
Yes but we're talking absolutes we're not talking year-over-year.
Understood.
Understood but the point is we're generating strong second half cash flow.
There's no question Eric the higher capital has put a bit more pressure on the cash flow number but we're still in the middle of that range that Ron gave you.
And our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
The first one is as you look at your cost inflation for the year is it expected to be higher in the second half versus the first half? Yes.
The third quarter and this may help you guys in understanding how the quarters may play out the third quarter we do expect to be our highest level of cost pressures or cost inflation.
So a little bit over 9%.
That'll come down in the fourth quarter because if you think about how our year played out last year we started to see some inflation come through the fourth quarter.
So our fourth quarter comes down a little bit.
When you look at the back half versus the front half the 2 should be relatively comparative.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then related to that in the second quarter without getting to -- I don't think you can give exact detail on this but you had a higher level of pricing than I expected and I'm just trying to understand how that matched up with the cost inflation in the quarter.
I mean your gross profit dollars grew I realized and your margin was flat.
Were those roughly comparable -- that is the increase in pricing and the increase in cost inflation in the quarter? In the second quarter? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> In the second quarter yes.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then my final question is just in relation to advertising and promotion a bit of that shift.
Can you help us understand how much that is shifting? Is it a meaningful number? Or how much is going to promotion versus what was planned to go into advertising? Yes.
As we look at advertising now for the full year we've seen about 1 to 2 points shift out of advertising and into promotions.
So our advertising could be flat to up slightly as we look at the year.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi investment.
So John your pricing seems to be coming in a bit better than expected and I know you've made a lot of comments here on volumes but I want to just take another pass at it.
The volume piece certainly in the second half of 2010 volumes at the company were pretty weak.
I believe they were down approximately 2%.
So it's not as if the comparisons are particularly challenging.
If the pricing is better than expected cost -- you said it was 8% but that was within the range you gave before.
Productivity sounds like it's very similar down a touch but I can't imagine that's really a material issue right here.
It does seem like you're tracking ahead.
Are you just simply saying that it's not enough to make any change to the guidance? Or is -- there is some opportunities to spend more? I think you made a comment earlier in the Q&amp;A that you would seek to reinvest.
It just looks like things are stronger and I suppose I'd like to hear the comments about the year-ago volume comparison.
David I think we're very happy with the first half performance.
We're tracking right on line and we think we're on line for our full year guidance.
Maybe a different way of coming at the volume question if I looked at the second quarter our volume's up 0.6%.
If you would adjust for the cereal recall and the Eggo disruption our volume in the second quarter would be down 1%.
We're looking at the back half of the year and saying we expect our volume to be down roughly 1%.
So we're actually expecting back half performance to be very similar to the underlying second quarter performance.
And then if anything we have a little bit more price mix coming through in the back half than what we had in the second quarter.
So as I look at the guidance I think it's very consistent the back half to what we've seen here in Q2.
And then maybe just a related question to the volume piece.
Of course the back half of last year the U.S.
cereal category was also particularly weak.
You did make the comment that second quarter saw cereal category growth for the first time.
But again when you're making this whole comparison that volumes go down I suppose I'm not tracking against the idea that the cereal category gets better yet we're still expecting volume pressures related to the price increases in light of a very weak category in the year-ago.
Well when you think about the cereal category the cereal category performance is based upon the performance of the all the manufacturers within the category.
And I think we're very happy with our business.
We're driving about 2/3 of the innovation sales in U.S.
cereal so far this year.
Our 5% consumption growth in the second quarter was strong.
Innovation's working.
We feel good about the business.
I think the category's a little softer than we would like it to be and I think it does have the potential to improve in the back half of the year.
That doesn't necessarily mean that our business will grow even faster.
That might just mean that we gained a little bit less share.
We gained 1.7 share points in the second quarter.
And our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Just a question of clarification on the guidance for the share repurchase.
So if it's going to contribute a little bit less than you were thinking originally to earnings growth this year does that mean that you were expecting the share price to actually be lower? Like you're buying fewer shares than you originally thought? Or is there going to be more dilution I guess from options? I'm just trying to understand why it's not contributing as much as you originally thought.
Yes.
Bryan there is a little bit more dilution from options.
And if you look at our cash flow statement you can kind of see that pop out.
So we're seeing about $100 million more in terms of dilution from options exercises over the front part of the year.
So that's having an impact on our range of benefit from average shares outstanding.
And is that an effect of the share price? Or is that because you're like going to be ahead of your plan? I'm just trying to figure out why that would be different.
This is a case of employees choosing to exercise options and I think not paying a bonus last year has probably impacted some of that decision.
And our next question comes from Scott Mushkin from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> So I just wanted to understand a little bit did you guys up your guidance -- more costs and more price increases for the back half? Is that kind of a little bit of the adjustment that was made? Or did I read that wrong? That's correct.
So a combination of more pricing and mix as well.
And then our cost pressures being slightly higher at the higher end of the 7% to 8% range.
And then remember I mentioned also our cost savings down slightly about 20 basis points.
Inc.</strong> Right.
So I'm going to kind of maybe be a little devil's advocate here with the back half and just say we hear one of your biggest customers is really starting to struggle from a volume perspective.
And with pricing being a little bit higher than you thought I mean what gives you the confidence that down 1% volume is the right place to be or where it will end up given the condition of the U.S.
consumer? I know you talked about the U.K.
consumer being in a bad spot but certainly the U.S.
consumer is not great.
I think what gives us confidence is in part the second quarter performance and even the first quarter performance.
We have a very strong innovation pipeline this year and that innovation will still be there through the back half of the year.
And we're bringing in additional innovation at the halfway mark of the year.
So clearly volume is the most difficult part of our P&amp;L to forecast and if we have issues upside or downside it will be on that volume line.
But we think that the back half forecast is the right forecast and it's very consistent with what we've seen in the marketplace.
Inc.</strong> Do you worry about what I'm talking about? I mean as you look at the retail channel look at the consumer look at the pricing that's going through and just say "Whoa.
This could be a little bit more challenging than we thought 6 months ago"? I think the consumer is under pressure but I also think our products tend to be staples.
And if anything we're seeing that split in the consumer.
So we're seeing double-digit growth in BearNaked in the second quarter one of our highest priced cereals on a per unit basis.
And so you're seeing consumers who realize that the world's not going to end certainly being prepared to pay the extra money for the extra value.
And then there are customers who are under pressure but if you have great brand-building programs like the Frosted Flakes advertising great innovation like Crunchy Nut and FiberPlus then consumers are prepared to come into the category.
Inc.</strong> And then trade spending.
There seems to be some cyclicality to what you guys do with the trade.
Do you anticipate at least to the Nielsen data do you anticipate that we're going to take that down a level of promotion you do in the back half.
I think you've kind of a normal pattern here or do you expect to continue the kind of the levels you did in the first half? Well I don't want to talk too much about prospective trade spend.
But I think our activity in the second quarter take U.S.
cereal it looks like our sales -- incremental sales are up 10%.
A part of that is a relatively weak comparison.
And so I wouldn't expect that sort of growth to continue because the comparison doesn't continue that way.
So I think it will tend to moderate.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
I know you talked a little bit about the supply chain and manufacturing issues but I think another one popped up here in New Zealand and Australia overnight.
Any thoughts when this will actually -- it was just an unfortunate event but any thoughts on that? Any comments on that? You're right.
We had a very small recall in Australia and New Zealand overnight.
It was to do with some hard plastic in cereal.
But it was a very small amount of cereal a couple days of production.
It's the first recall we've had in Australia for 5 years.
So it really is a very minor issue.
It really is unrelated to some of the issues we've had in the U.S.
Clearly our first preference is not to have any recalls at all.
And secondly if you do have them you want to make them as contained as possible and as quick as possible.
And I think that's what we've done in Australia.
And our next question comes from Robert Dickerson from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to go back to a couple of questions that were asked earlier on free cash flow and specifically how it pertains to the buyback plan for the rest of the year.
Because it seems like as of now if you just run current share count for the rest of the year it looks like that should get us down to the negative 3% for the year or down 3% for the year.
So I was just curious if we're building up for a better or stronger fiscal '12 and we still are on line for $2.5 billion 3-year buyback plan then what would cause you to not be buying back shares in the back half of this year if we obviously expect the share price to be going up? Is that just based upon pressure coming off of free cash flow? An increased dividend? Or is there something else there? No not necessarily.
Let's separate out the financing activities and the share repurchase from the operating cash flow first.
So the options proceeds or the dilution from that is really a separate matter.
We're still planning to buy back shares in the back half of the year.
So we didn't say that we weren't going to buy any shares back.
We said we bought a little over $500 million through the front half and expect about $800 million for the year.
It's still early though.
I mean we're a little bit more than halfway through the year.
We have the $2.5 billion authorization so there's some flexibility there.
We feel comfortable based on what we will execute over the back half of the year that it will be in that 3% to 4% range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just a clarification.
I'm pretty sure your guidance before on interest for the year was $235 million to $245 million.
Has that changed? It remains in the exact same place.
So our guidance is still at $235 million to $245 million.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then last question just on a category basis.
It seems like obviously there's been a lot of talk over the last couple of years on cereal.
It's a large category.
But I mean could you add any color what you think potentially could be happening with the consumer if you look at just potential growth just in the U.S.
in the cereal category relative to what we've been seeing in frozen breakfast? Because obviously Morningstar Farms is doing well and frozen breakfast category is doing extremely well.
I think frozen breakfast is doing very well.
And you can see that with the Eggo consumption up 40% and the Morningstar Farms doing very well also.
I think cereal long-term has great growth potential in the U.S.
I'm not suggesting it's going to be in mid-single digit category but it can certainly grow in that sort of low single-digit ranges.
And I believe that's going to continue to happen because it's on trend from a health and wellness perspective.
It's on trend from an older population perspective.
And I think there's opportunity to drive consumption of cereal beyond just the breakfast occasion.
So I think there's a lot of reasons to believe a lot of tailwinds on the cereal category.
Just given the sheer size of the category it's going to be more moderate growth rates.
But I don't think what we're seeing right now is a weak cereal category because we have a strong frozen breakfast category.
I think what we need to do in the cereal category is to see an increased rate of innovation across the category increased level of brand building across the category and bring consumers into the category.
And that final question will come from Eric Larson from Ticonderoga.
Just a quick follow-up on your top line growth.
You've got a lot of innovation this year John.
You talked about that and the success thereof.
Yet when we look at kind of the first half volume numbers we don't see it in that per se.
Maybe it's in your price mix maybe the volume impact is more second half.
Can you help us understand how you're measuring the success in your innovation and new products either year-to-date and what metric we might want to look at to see where the benefit would come from that? Well I think you can see the innovation coming through in the market share results.
And if I just take U.S.
cereal as an example FiberPlus is 0.4 share points Crunchy Nut 0.6 Mini-Wheats Touch of Fruit 0.4 as well.
So you can see the share performance there.
I think obviously there is always some level of cannibalization of innovation from existing products.
I do believe that these products are to some degree also bringing people into the category.
And I think that the price elasticity also does have some impact on the category.
So we are seeing innovation come through and help our volume line.
And then subtract from that to some degree some elasticity from the pricing actions that are being taken.
We have reduced our trade spend significantly across the back half -- the front half of this year okay? And that trade spend reduction is putting some pressure on consumers.
Just a quick follow-up then.
I know we're out of time.
But you had put out I believe a goal of --  and it's a pretty standard number for you folks of about $800 million of net new product sales from innovation/new products.
Would that $800 million sales goal be the same for 2011 as what you had previously stated? I would say we might be tracking slightly ahead of that now.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
Kim Stumm and I would be happy to answer any follow-up questions you might have.
If you would please contact Kathryn Koessel's line.
She's at (269) 961-9089 and we'd be happy to answer any questions.
Thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a great day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time.
I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thanks Karen.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2011 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday November 7.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Simon.
And it's really great to see you back in Kellogg.
As we evaluate our business we are pleased with our commercial performance and in a moment we'll discuss our progress and growth across both categories and regions of the world.
That said we are absorbing additional costs which are primarily related to our increased investment in supply chain.
Specifically the third quarter offered some compelling signs of improvement particularly from the top line and the end market perspective.
However the quarter was adversely impacted by investments in our supply chain and the lapping of last year's incentive compensation costs.
We're encouraged by our underlying results especially in the current environment and recognize that it takes time to regain momentum.
While our sales grew 3% on an internal basis in the quarter this actually understates our underlying performance due to some shifts in retail trade inventory.
We achieved strong end market consumption growth across our U.S.
business in the third quarter gaining share in several key categories.
We are also seeing improved momentum in Latin America Continental Europe and Asia.
However the market continues to be difficult in the U.K.
which adversely impacted our European results.
Our strong innovation program and brand building are helping drive our top line in this difficult economic environment and we have plans to continue our momentum.
As mentioned on our last call we are lapping a significant reduction in our incentive compensation costs in the third quarter of 2010.
This adversely impacted operating profit by 12 points in the quarter and is a primary driver of our decline in operating profit year-on-year.
Due to the timing of various hedges and commodity increases we always expected the third quarter to have the highest level of inflation for the year.
In addition to the underlying inflation we have also increased our investments in supply chain across the back half.
It is important to note that when we first gave guidance for 2011 we expected cost pressures of 6%.
We have now increased our estimate to approximately 9% which has placed significant pressure on our operating profit performance this year.
If we step back and look at 2011 we are pleased with our top line in the U.S.
with broad-based share gains.
We are also seeing improved momentum in Latin America Asia and parts of Europe.
However we underestimated how much work is required to regain momentum in the U.K.
and have increased the level of investment in our supply chain.
As we look forward we are building our top line momentum and have an even stronger innovation pipeline in 2012 than in 2011.
However to gain sustainable top line momentum we need to increase our investments in brand building and continue to make investments in our supply chain.
As always our focus is on the long-term health of our business.
To that end we're going to make the necessary investments to manage for the long term.
Specifically we are focusing additional time and investment in several areas: supply chain SAP reimplementation and increased brand building.
Let me share more detail on each of these 3 areas.
Slide 5 is one that we showed you at the back-to-school conference.
I want to highlight that we're doing a lot of work to build a stronger supply chain.
Looking at our business from farm to fork or silo to spoon.
This has resulted in several changes in our supply chain.
We have increased our capital spending to improve our infrastructure and selectively expand capacity.
We have selectively added people and resources in our plants.
We are expanding our training and development programs.
We have changed a number of suppliers and significantly increased our independent testing and ordering.
We have changed the layout of our plants to improve environmental zoning and monitoring.
As we work through the process we have chosen to accelerate work in several plants to improve our environment.
This has resulted in additional labor costs asset write-offs and in some cases has temporarily increased logistics and sourcing costs.
As we look into 2012 we expect to continue to invest in our supply chain particularly in the areas of infrastructure capital additional capacity and training as well as a wraparound impact from investments made in 2011.
In addition we are investing in our Information Technology infrastructure through our SAP reimplementation to provide improved capabilities and drive efficiencies.
Third we will increase our investment and brand building to further drive our business momentum.
Our increased brand building investments will also help support our successful ramp-up in innovation.
As always our focus is on the long-term health of our business.
We are committed to brand building and driving innovation as the mechanisms to win sustainably in the marketplace.
Turning now to our results Ron will take you through our financial highlights.
Thanks John and good morning.
In the third quarter we delivered solid top line growth with reported net sales growth of 5% and internal net sales growth of 3%.
Operating profit declined 14% on a reported basis and 16% on an internal basis driven primarily by increased cost of goods sold lapping the adjustment we made in third quarter 2010 to reduce our incentive compensation costs and reinstatement of those costs in 2011.
As we expected our input inflation peaked in the third quarter but we also accelerated some investments in our supply chain infrastructure.
To give you a sense for the impact of these items the incentive compensation costs created a 12-point headwind and the supply chain costs created an approximate 8-point headwind to third quarter results.
Earnings per share declined 11% on a reported basis and 13% on a currency neutral basis.
This included a benefit from reduced average shares outstanding as a result of our share repurchase program.
Now let's review the components of our financial performance.
Slide 8 shows the components of our net sales growth.
Our volume decreased by 1.9% within the quarter for 2 key reasons: first we saw customer trade inventory reductions in the U.S.; and second our volume in Russia and China declined due to our continued conversion to value-added formats in these markets.
Excluding these items our volume was relatively flat.
We experienced strong volume growth in Eggo offset by volume softness in the U.K.
Overall we are seeing what we expected in terms of volume elasticity due to consumer price increases.
The only exception is in the U.K.
where we have seen more elasticity in cereal and some softness in our snacks business.
Price and mix contributed 5 points of growth in line with our expectations.
Currency contributed 2 points of growth for the quarter.
So overall our third quarter sales performance is consistent with our previous full-year outlook for both volume and internal net sales.
Slide 9 shows our gross profit and gross margin performance.
Reported gross profit dollars were $1.3 billion down from 2010.
Internal gross profit dollars declined 3% in the quarter.
Our inflationary cost pressures peaked in the third quarter at 11% higher than we had anticipated.
Commodities energy and fuel costs were key contributors to inflation.
And we invested in our supply chain infrastructure.
These items contributed to the decline in our reported gross profit margin which contracted 270 basis points for the quarter to 40.7%.
In the third quarter we made incremental investments in our supply chain infrastructure across our U.S.
network.
These investments resulted in onetime costs increased logistics costs and reduced operating leverage while some production lines were down for refurbishment and accounted for approximately 1/2 the decline in gross margin.
One example of our increased investment in supply chain was the actions we took at our Augusta plant.
We reduced the volume in the facility as we made significant improvements.
This resulted in lost volume absorption asset write-offs and higher labor costs as we renovated this facility.
We also took the lessons learned and are applying them across our network.
While we are fully hedged for commodities for 2011 we now expect cost pressures to be approximately 9% up 1 point from our previous estimate of nearly 8%.
Full-year gross margin is now expected to be down a little more than 100 basis points.
This includes the incremental supply chain investments in both the third quarter and fourth quarters.
These investments are the primary drivers of a change in both cost pressures and gross margin from our second quarter update.
Now let's turn to Slide 10 to review brand building.
Our third quarter brand building as a percent to net sales was the highest quarter on a year-to-date basis.
Our brand building is down 9% year-over-year for the quarter but this is due to our investments being more back-end weighted last year and we're lapping the highest quarter as a percent to net sales in Q3 2010.
Brand building is up 1% year-to-date and we expect brand building to be up slightly for the year.
As we look to 2012 we intend to invest more in brand building to help fuel our strong commercial plans and improve momentum.
Internal operating profit declined 16% for the quarter primarily driven by the peak in input inflation investments in our supply chain and the year-over-year incentive compensation costs I discussed earlier.
North America internal operating profit declined 13% in the quarter driven by these 3 items and despite contributions from strong price improvements.
Europe's internal operating profit declined 21% due to the continued difficult operating environment in the U.K.
While we have taken prices up across the region our price increases have not fully covered the impact from higher cost pressures this year which increased nearly 13% in just a quarter.
In Latin America internal operating profit jumped 19% for the quarter driven by strong sales growth and including a double-digit increase in brand building investment.
In Asia Pacific our internal operating profit decreased 14%.
While we saw operating profit growth across most of our markets in Asia our business in Australia declined as we work through a customer trading issue.
Now let's turn to Slide 12 to discuss cash flow.
Our year-to-date cash flow was $877 million $50 million higher than last year.
We now expect cash flow for the full year to be at the low end of our guidance range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion as a result of a revised outlook for operating profit.
Our capital spending continues to be in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales.
Year-to-date we have purchased approximately $690 million in shares and we continue to expect to reduce average shares outstanding by 3% to 4% for the year.
Now let's turn to our 2011 full-year outlook.
We continue to expect net sales to grow at approximately 4% to 5% driven by our price and mix visibility.
Our volume for the year is still expected to be approximately flat.
As I mentioned earlier we now expect cost pressures to be approximately 9%.
This increase is driven primarily by the additional supply chain investments occurring over the second half of the year.
These investments have contributed approximately 1 point to our cost pressures in the year.
Our estimate of productivity savings remains at approximately 4%.
And while I typically would not comment on upfront costs we still expect approximately $0.12 which now includes onetime expenses associated with capital projects across our supply chain network.
Gross margin is expected to decline by a little more than 100 basis points versus last year.
And we now expect internal operating profit to be down 2% to 4% based on our increased supply chain investments.
Consistent with the revised outlook for operating profit we expect currency neutral earnings per share to be approximately flat.
We still expect share repurchases to provide a 3% to 4% improvement to earnings per share and our tax rate is still expected to be approximately 29%.
Our latest estimate of the benefit from currency is approximately $0.08 per share.
And this suggests reported earnings per share in the range of $3.35 to $3.41.
Now let's discuss our outlook for 2012.
As John mentioned we plan to make a number of investments across our business in 2012.
We expect to make investments in our supply chain similar to those executed over the back half of 2011.
These investments may be flat to up slightly due to new initiatives as well as the full-year impact of investments made in 2011.
The anticipated cost impact of our SAP reimplementation is in the range of $20 million to $30 million.
We expect to incur the costs for the implementation in 2012 but will not begin to recognize the benefits until 2013.
And we plan to step up our brand building investment at a rate equal to or greater than sales growth to support our strong innovation pipeline and great commercial plans.
As we turn to our broader outlook for 2012 we are continuing on the path to rebuild our momentum and are focused on the long-term health of the business.
Reflecting our confidence we expect another year of internal net sales growth above our long-term targets.
Specifically we expect internal net sales growth to be in the range of 4% to 5% driven by our innovation pipeline for 2012 which is stronger than 2011 as well as improvements in price and mix.
We expect our operating profit to be flat to up slightly as we continue to invest in supply chain reimplement SAP and increase our brand building.
Consequently our outlook for currency neutral earnings per share is for growth of 2% to 4%.
We expect to continue to pursue aggressively our policy of returning cash to shareholders via the dividend and our multi-year share repurchase authorization.
Now let me turn it over to John to discuss our North America and international businesses.
Thanks Ron.
Before we discuss the individual businesses I'd like to provide an update on our innovation performance and upcoming launches on Slide 16.
We have an outstanding innovation program in 2011 and an even stronger broad-based program coming out in 2012.
We expect to exceed our $800 million innovation sales target for 2011.
We are seeing great successes from products across our categories like Special K Cracker Chips Crunchy Nut cereal and Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles.
For 2012 we expect nearly $900 million in innovation driven by proven ideas such as Krave cereal in the U.S.
and expansion of our Special K Cracker Chips line.
We also expect our rate of innovation to increase across our international business.
On the slide you will see some of the new products we have scheduled to launch in the second half of 2011 and the beginning of 2012.
Turning to Slide 17 you'll see our top line results for North America.
Internal net sales grew 4% in the third quarter and were up 5% year-to-date.
The third quarter net sales increase of 4% was driven by growth in Retail Snacks and our Frozen and Specialty Channel.
Slide 18 walks you through details of North America Retail Cereal.
We believe our underlying consumption growth in the U.S.
across all channels in the quarter was approximately 5% in line with Nielsen data for measured channels.
The difference between flat shipments and 5% consumption growth is primarily trade inventory related.
We experienced market share growth of 1 point in measured channels in the quarter and achieved strong growth in non-measured channels.
We experienced a double-digit consumption growth in the drug and dollar channels which were up in category share 8 points and 2.6 points respectively.
Category trends improved within the quarter driven by strong price realization.
The average price per pound in the category has increased over 6% in the quarter and 4% year-to-date.
This was driven by improvement in both shelf prices and promoted price points.
Our advertising performance continues to be strong with programs such as our Frosted Flakes father and son football advertising campaign.
We also executed a highly successful in and out of chocolate Zucaritas with bilingual packaging leveraging Hispanic consumer appeal.
We demonstrated strong share growth from our innovation.
Our recently-launched Crunchy Nut brand is at a 0.6 market share while Special K Oats &amp; Honey achieved a 0.3 market share in measured channels.
Looking forward to 2012 we're also very excited about our upcoming launch of the Krave brand which has demonstrated strong success in Europe.
Turning to Retail Snacks we had another solid quarter with 3% internal net sales growth driven by growth in crackers cookies and wholesome snacks.
However similar to cereal Pop-Tarts experienced a trade inventory decline which depressed the North America Retail Snacks net sales by approximately 1%.
We are pleased by our third quarter consumption and share performance with broad-based consumption growth and share gains.
Third quarter cracker internal net sales grew by 7% and gained 0.8 share points in measured channels driven by the success of Special K Cracker Chips and growth in Cheez-It.
Special K Cracker Chips is shaping us as one of our most successful launches ever.
We are planning to launch 2 new SKUs in January to help build on this success.
We continue to see improving trends in our cookie growth with the strength of the Keebler master brand initiative as we discussed during the second quarter call.
While our Keebler brand is gaining share we did see some softness in some peripheral brands and so our total share is down slightly year-on-year.
Our wholesome snacks net sales grew approximately 3% in the quarter on top of a strong 7% comparison driven by double-digit growth in Special K Fruit Crisps and FiberPlus bars.
Kellogg share is relatively flat but we saw a strong performance from Special K FiberPlus and Keebler granola bars.
In January we'll be introducing 2 new SKUs of Specialty K granola bars with fiber and protein.
Pop-Tarts net sales declined 3% driven primarily by trade inventory.
But it's important to note that consumption was up 6% in the quarter.
Turning to Page 20 our Frozen and Specialty business posted strong 12% growth in the third quarter driven by growth in our Frozen Foods business.
Our Eggo business posted internal net sales growth for the quarter of over 25% driven by strong innovation and brand building.
And our share of the waffle category is back to all-time highs.
We continue to launch new innovation.
In January we are launching 6 new items including an away-from-the-table waffle called wafflers a natural ingredient waffle called simply Eggo and an Eggo protein waffle to name a few.
The veggie category remains strong growing at a healthy 5% consumption in measured channels.
Our internal net sales also posted mid single-digit growth within the quarter driven by Morningstar Farms.
We are launching new items in January including MorningStar Farms veggie meatballs and veggie hotdogs.
Our Retail Frozen Kashi business internal net sales grew double digits within the quarter.
In January Kashi will introduce steamed meals with 4 new flavors.
Our Foodservice business grew approximately 6% within the quarter.
Turning to Slide 21 and our international business we posted 2% internal net sales growth driven by strong top line growth in Latin America and growth in Asia Pacific.
This helped offset Europe's 2% internal net sales decline.
We are disappointed by our results in Europe in the third quarter.
We essentially have 3 different regions in Europe: the U.K.
Continental Europe and Russia.
Russia performed in line with expectations with modest top line growth despite anticipated lower volumes as we continue to move from a bulk to package format.
We continue to see positive trends on the continent in Europe.
Our internal net sales in France Spain and Italy all grew mid single digits in the quarter.
However the U.K.
continues to be a difficult operating environment a tough economy combined with a highly competitive retail landscape.
As a result our cereal consumption was down 3% in the third quarter.
To address the continued challenges we are accelerating our rate of innovation in the fourth quarter and across 2012.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we are launching 2 flavors of a new kids brand similar to Mini-Wheats in the U.S.
called Mini Max which is centered around the U.S.
full and focused positioning.
We are also launching an all bran Golden Crunch and a Krave choose-your-chocolate campaign.
Snacks in the U.K.
has had a very difficult year.
We have seen aggressive new entrants into the category which has adversely impacted our business.
Snacks is inherently an innovation-driven category and we've not had the necessary level of innovation.
However as we go into 2012 we have a much stronger innovation plan.
Kellogg Latin America posted internal net sales growth of 9% in the third quarter with double-digit gains in markets such as Venezuela Mexico and Colombia.
Strong price realization helped offset high cost inflation and funded a double-digit increase in brand building.
We ramped up advertising promotion and innovation activity.
Notable in the quarter was the launch of Krave cereal in Mexico continued support behind Special K and consumer promotions in several markets.
In Asia Pacific third quarter internal net sales growth of 2% was driven by double-digit growth in Korea South Africa and India.
Our Australian business experienced a slight decline due to a recent customer issue.
In summary we are committed to the long-term health of our business.
We are making progress in regaining our momentum in 2011 and remain on track for the long term.
As we go into 2012 we have exciting commercial plans expect to continue to drive sales at a 4% to 5% growth rate above our long-term growth goal.
The required reinvestments will keep profit and EPS growth below our long-term goals for 2012.
We remain committed to running the business for the long term.
I'd like to thank our 30 000 Kellogg employees for their dedication and hard work and I'd like to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I hate to ask this question but I think most people recognize that the year wasn't coming in according to plan.
But none of us expected a reduction in guidance to this degree.
And one of the reasons was it felt like there was this big cushion on executive compensation up $100 million in the third quarter.
Given that you're not hitting your targets was there any discussion about whether executive comp should be up as much as it is this year? I think the way Rob that the executive compensation works is last year we basically zeroed out our bonus program.
And so I'm not sure I'd describe it as a cushion so much as a headwind coming into 2011.
As we've gone through this year we are reducing our guidance slightly for the year.
And that will have an adverse impact to our executive compensation programs but not to the degree of zeroing them amount.
So it remains a headwind.
Research Division</strong> Okay John.
But is this a rebasing to a normal level of executive comp up $100 million? Or is it rebasing to maybe a little bit below a normal comp? Well we -- again last year we zeroed out the executive comp -- the total company bonus program.
And this year we reset it back to a 100% payout at target.
That's what we did.
So that's the extent of the adjustment for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question on -- K-LEAN the program that you had in years past was a productivity program a cost efficiency program.
And now it seems like there's more than expected investment necessary in the supply chain.
John in the beginning of the year if you rebased earnings and everyone thought it was the right idea do you feel again like the K-LEAN program may be -- hurt the assets more than it helped? And do you feel now you have the right level of investment that you need to put in? Rob I think it's a very good question.
And if you go back and say "How did we get ourselves in a situation that we're in and the need to reinvest even more money back into our supply chain in the back half of the year?" I think there are 2 root causes if you go back over time.
One was we did cut too many people from our facilities as part of the U.S.
implementation of K-LEAN.
I think our international implementation of K-LEAN was a little bit different.
It was more employee engagement oriented less headcount reduction oriented.
And so I think a lot of the issues we have actually are in our U.S.
network.
As a result of that we have added more people into the plants this year and are engaging that workforce more effectively going forward.
So there's certainly -- I think K-LEAN cut too deep in the U.S.
network.
And we reversed direction on that and added people back into those facilities.
The second root cause driver is that we probably worked the assets a bit too hard.
We're running a bit too tight on capacity.
And so you saw us add additional waffle capacity earlier this year.
And as a result of that we've increased our capital spend both this year the next few years at around 4% to 5% of sales.
So I think we're making the right investments for the long term.
I think we have gone back and identified the root causes of some of the issues that we have.
And I think you can see us addressing those root causes as we go forward here.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I don't think it's appropriate given that the stock is down 7% and so many people are frustrated out there to limit us to  1 question.
But besides that the U.K.
your biggest competitor there just a couple of weeks ago talked about that market actually showing signs of recovery.
And so how is it that you're finding yourself in like the exact opposite position? Well I think the U.K -- I do believe the U.K.
economy is a tough economy and I think the U.K.
consumer is under pressure.
And if you look at the U.K.
really 2 different issues in there.
One is cereals second is snacks.
And our cereal consumption is down about 3% which is obviously not where we want it to be.
And we are increasing the rate of innovation in the U.K.
with the launch of Mini Max here in the fourth quarter and additional innovation going to 2012.
And the second issue is really our snacks business in the U.K.
And we've had 2 new competitors enter that category in 2011.
And the impact of that on our businesses as the category leader has been fairly significant.
So I think there's some broader economic issues in the U.K.
and there's some Kellogg company-specific issues within the snacks category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess getting back to Rob's question on the investment in the business.
I guess we've always had this question about the upfront costs and what kind of return they were going to give.
And I mean I guess it's now fair to say that CapEx has been way underspent.
These upfront costs aren't really returning that much.
And I guess I just -- Dave Mackay isn't there to speak to this.
But John you've been around.
And so like -- like it seems like the more rocks that are turned over there's more ugly stuff underneath.
And it's amazing that a company like Kellogg with its reputation is actually going through this.
So I guess I just -- I don't understand how things like underworking or overworking assets and underinvesting could have occurred.
I mean I just -- I guess -- I wonder is there more information here? And why is it happening? And how come you didn't kind of recognize this let's say that CAGNY 9 10 months ago when you've been around? I think Eric you come back again.
There are 2 root causes here.
One is I think we did cut too many people in our facilities in the U.S.
network due to the lean initiative and we reversed course on that.
And second is we've worked assets a little bit harder than what we probably ought to have.
And we've changed direction on that.
If you think about what we've gone through this year we have been aggressively looking across our supply chain from farm to fork or silo to spoon to try to move from a reactive situation over the last couple of years to proactively identifying and finding these issues.
As you do that we find things find opportunities and we address those opportunities.
The second element is as you're aware we did receive a letter on our Augusta facility.
We sat back and looked at Augusta got to the root causes within the Augusta facility and took the lessons learned fixed Augusta and took it across our broader network.
That result is identifying further opportunities for us to invest in our supply chain.
So I think what you're seeing here is our desire to make the right investments to create the supply chain for the future.
So we are addressing these issues in a proactive rather than reactive way.
And we believe that by doing this we're going to have a much stronger supply chain for the future that's more reliable where we have better people safety food safety even productivity because it all comes down to people engagement within these facilities.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you first -- I guess what I'm still trying to understand is do you have your arms around the cost required to fix the supply chain? And I guess if I could add to that you were talking about $30 million of incremental investment in 2011 for supply chain.
It looks like it was over $40 million in this quarter alone.
So can you talk about -- I guess answer that broader question and then maybe give us a few more numbers like what you expect for the year maybe what could lap into next year if you could help with that.
Yes Chris this is Ron.
In terms of the supply chain investments that we're making remember what we said was that our cost pressures move from approximately 8% up to 9%.
So about 1 point roughly $70 million.
This $70 million is over the third and the fourth quarters.
About 60% of it is falling in the third quarter and 40% is falling in the fourth quarter.
And we did talk about an incremental $30 million previously when we did the second quarter conference call.
So that was already embedded within the approximate 8% cost pressures that we discussed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 9% does include that.
And I guess the bigger question then John do you feel like you've now quantified -- given what you've done say in Augusta and you spread it across the network what you've done internationally do you feel like there's any more surprises there? I thought we knew it last quarter.
I guess it's what I'm getting at.
How did that change again this quarter? I understand that Chris.
And we gave our best estimate on the second quarter conference call.
And now we've gone through a significant amount of work going through the Augusta learnings and the review of our supply chain to identify opportunities.
And we've invested an additional $70 million that we have partially absorbed within this year's outlook and had to unfortunately lower our guidance as a result.
As we go into 2012 we expect to have some wraparound investment increase year-on-year because we have added people back into the plants this year there will be additional wraparound impact from that.
There will be some depreciation expense next year as well because we put capital in.
And obviously we'll have some flexibility to continue to invest in our supply chain in 2012 because we spent the $70 million this year.
So we are working through this.
We're making the best decisions that we can.
We are addressing issues as they arise.
I think what is worth recognizing here is that we're investing what is appropriate and not what we can afford to invest in the context of guidance.
So it's not like we only invest in what we could afford to invest in 2011.
We actually invested $70 million and dropped our guidance.
So we're not leaving issues on the table to be addressed at some point in the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are these costs also reflected in upfront costs? Or is that separate of what you're doing in supply chain? There are some onetime costs that are reflected in upfront costs Chris.
And then there is the $70 million that's just ongoing expense.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just in relation to U.S.
cereal inventory.
And just to understand was that a broad category decline in inventory with the certain retailers? And I also wonder was the big increase in 2Q volume -- I know you had the recall.
Was that -- did you find out in hindsight there was a little extra inventory shipped in in 2Q? Chris I think what's happening on the trade inventory is actually  had more to do with the 2010 comparative than the 2011 results.
So in 2010 we had the cereal recall which had officially reduced inventory in the second quarter and then it had to get reloaded in the third quarter.
And so we're just lapping a shipment profile from last year that's a little unusual.
If you look at our absolute level of trade inventory the end of the third quarter is in line with our normal sort of trade inventory ranges.
Chris if I could just add to that also on a year-to-date basis actually our cereal shipments and cereal consumption are actually pretty consistent with each other.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So a lot of incremental expense coming in next year and this year most of it is supply chain which is a little bit surprising.
I'm looking at some of the measure media data and it shows your share of voice within the category cereal category here in the U.S.
slipping.
And your share of voice or share of market now lagging both Mills and Post.
And John you talked about the non-advertising brand building cuts that happened between 2008 and 2010 at a recent conference.
So my question is why not more investment in brand building next year? Do you think you're going to be at a sustainable level by just growing maybe in line or slightly above the rate of sales? Well I think our intention is to significantly increase brand building in 2012.
That's our plan that's our goal.
That's why we're giving the guidance we have for 2012.
So at this stage I'm not quantifying by how much brand building will go up.
But we're saying at or above the rate of sales growth.
The other thing to remember when you look at that share of voice data is we've shifted a significant amount of money into digital which is not really captured in the share-of-voice type metrics.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one more question.
Another surprise for me at least was the rather robust rate of organic growth that you're forecasting for 2012.
Can you give us a little more color on maybe the components or the source or the -- I'll just leave it there the components or the source of that growth? We don't want to go into too much detail on 2012 guidance.
This is just preliminary.
But as we look out to 2012 we are seeing another year of inflation.
And with that we have taken additional pricing actions.
And so a good portion of our 4% to 5% growth in 2010 will be price mix.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> John does some of the comments around supply chain and some of the many actions that you're taking do those ultimately change the way that Kellogg is able to generate productivity going forward? So you're still looking for -- I think Ron said approximately 4% of cost of goods and ongoing productivity this year.
Is that the appropriate number going forward? Or should that be lower as a result of some of the things that you're doing? Andrew I think if you look at the last couple of years we've been closer to 5% productivity which I think is an unsustainable and probably unhealthy level of productivity.
If you look back over 10 years we've sustained or been able to generate around 3% to 4% productivity.
And we believe that's the appropriate long-term productivity guidance.
Also as we look in our facilities and we add people back into our facilities improve the training and engagement of those employees we believe that in itself will help us drive productivity over time.
Research Division</strong> If you can talk about it how are you hedged at this stage or how far forward into 2012? And at this stage what would you expect your -- at least the commodity cost portion of your cost of goods to be up next year? Sure Andrew.
In terms of commodity inflation we do expect inflation as John had said next year.
We expect commodity inflation to be slightly less than what we experienced in 2011.
Right now and it's still early obviously but at this point in time we're hedged at about 50% on our commodities for next year.
For comparison I think we were a little over 40% at this time last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then all the supply chain investment that you're doing John does that get you back to simply industry standard operating procedure? Or do you think that it gets you something beyond where the industry is or incremental capabilities that your peers either don't or won't have? Andrew it's very hard for me to do a peer comparison.
We're looking at what we need to do.
We're confident that we're making the right decisions that will enable us to be more effective and productive in the future.
I believe in some areas we are ahead of the industry.
But it's hard for me to make a broad statement as to where the industry is.
Research Division</strong> And last thing is -- I guess I was a little surprised to see the overall corporate price sort of decelerate a bit from the second quarter just because I know pricing has continued to build as you've talked about and you took some incremental pricing during the course of the quarter.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what drove that.
And are we going to see that sort of reaccelerate going forward given some of the new pricing that you took? Yes actually Andrew the price mix benefit that we experienced in the third quarter is very consistent with what we expected and stronger than what we saw over the front half.
We do expect it to accelerate as we move into the fourth quarter and we have taken some additional pricing in October in a couple of key markets.
And our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the state of the U.S.
cereal category? I know your consumer takeaway data was pretty healthy this quarter.
But as I see breakfast in general there's a lot of things going on right now.
We've got the rise of Greek yogurt.
Frozen breakfast also seems to be picking up.
How are you thinking about the future growth rate of U.S.
cereals in the context of those changes? Well I think the U.S.
cereal category is a long-term growth category.
There's lots of reasons to believe that category can continue to grow.
There's an aging population trend here and older people eat more cereal than younger people.
There's an opportunity to drive cereal consumption outside the breakfast occasion.
And in some of the trends right now like Greek yogurt is actually -- can be complementary to cereal.
And then people will add cereal to Greek yogurt.
So I see it's a very versatile and long-term growth potential category.
So in the third quarter I think it was up 3%.
So I am quite positive on the long-term potential of the category.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And just as a quick follow-up you have a new Head of Supply Chain Steve Sterling that joined from Pepsi I guess in April.
Were there things that he saw in the supply chain system that led to the sort of immediate and urgent step-up in spending that we've seen this time? Well I think we've been going through a process for a while now.
I do believe that Steve has helped us and as being part of this helped drive this process as well.
So clearly he's taken on that leadership role within our supply chain.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And there was nothing that he -- it was more the Augusta plant and the learnings from that that led to the step-up not what we saw in terms of the differences between Pepsi and the Kellogg? Yes I believe we've been working down this path for a while now.
And I think he's certainly helped us make some improvements.
I think he's really been part of saying "Hey some of the people engagement practices are not what they could be." So some areas like that he's been particularly active.
But he's our new Head of Supply Chain for the company.
He's driving the changes that we need to make as a company to be better long term.
And our next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Just to follow up on the supply chain I guess I could understand the investments but these are initiatives that I would think are pretty -- usually pretty well planned out in advance.
So just to see the incremental spending show up at this magnitude in the quarter so fast is a pretty big surprise.
Can you just kind of maybe address the planning process a little bit more just so that we can understand the surprise factor a little bit? I think if you go back again we received the letter on Augusta I think in June.
As we said we've been going through farm-to-fork or silo-to-spoon process.
As we identified opportunities going through the third quarter we went after those opportunities.
And we sort of finalized our plans for the year sort of early October.
That was the first time we had sort of full-year look as to where we were.
But obviously a lot of activities were underway across the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a real quick follow-up.
Was there a negative mix effect in the quarter just with the cereal deroding [ph] in the U.S.? Actually the third quarter was one of our best mix performances for over a year.
And our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll from Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I want to clarify a definition on something.
So when you say the phrase supply chain I think what's being embedded in this phrase is both the raw material cost inflation and in addition to that these increased costs related to the safety of the product itself.
So Ron am I correct on just what the definition is? As we talk about our cost pressures in relation to supply chain absolutely.
It includes the material components of our product as well as the factory and operating costs and these increased investments.
Dave just to be clear the additional $70 million of investment is not raw material related.
That is investment in the 4 walls of our facilities.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm going there next.
So I'm just trying to put some things together but you got to make sure you have the definitions right.
Okay.
So Ron in your prepared script you said that revenues were coming in line with expectation.
The constant currency guidance is reduced by $0.07 versus last quarter.
But the supply chain is up $70 million that 9% figure you referenced.
Quick math here says that's about $0.13.
So then the guidance is not fully reduced by the magnitude of the supply chain hit.
What's coming in better? And then let me stop there and I'll have a follow-up.
That's correct David.
So we have been able to absorb some of that increase within the context of our profit and loss statement.
As I mentioned also our brand building has come down a little bit but we still expect it to be up year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the follow-up then is -- I'm amazed I got everything right while on the call.
So if I look at all of this and I say that from all of us on the outside I find it relatively impossible to know exactly what you guys needed to do on the supply chain.
And so this surprise here is not that the consumer is so much worse it's not that the price increases are not being accepted it is this internal company-specific issue on supply chain.
I think the math says that but do you guys agree to the qualitative statement? I agree with that absolutely.
I think our underlying business performance is strong the innovation is working we have broad-based sales and share growth we are gaining momentum on the top line we're investing for the long term.
I think issue that we had in the third quarter and the year was really this reinvestment in supply chain components.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Final question all on this topic then is in 2012 is the incremental increase to the supply chain x commodity inflation did you -- if you did I apologize what's the quantification of this number that we need to think about in 2012? Is it the same magnitude or even higher from the $70 million you've called out? Yes David we said it would be consistent perhaps up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $70 million $80 million something like that can't say.
But in that ballpark that's the headwind.
And then that would be the principal factor in driving the below normal  long-term guidance on the EPS front in terms of 2012 earnings growth.
Is that correct? Well there are a number of things that are impacting us in terms of our 2012.
As we discussed we talked about stepping up our brand building investment and also the SAP reimplementation.
The supply chain impact year-over-year is not a significant change.
David the way I think about it is early in the year we said we had $30 million of additional supply chain investment.
We've increased that by $70 million.
So we're now at $100 million up year-on-year.
As we going to 2012 we're basically saying we're going to hold that level of investment.
That gives us the flexibility to reinvest in the supply chain as we need to.
There will be some things that will impact us.
We'll have year-on-year depreciation drag and we'll have year-on-year impact from investments.
But also we have the flexibility to make additional investments in our supply chain if we need to within that guidance.
The real reason that 2012 guidance is a little bit below -- was below our long-term aspiration is because we are looking to invest aggressively back in the brand building.
Research Division</strong> Final clarification.
The SAP investment is that over and above the normal upfront costs that you guys typically have? So if upfront costs are $0.12 this year do I take this SAP? I think it's $30 million.
And that's on top of 2012 upfront of let's assume it's $12 million to $14 million like you guys normally are.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes David that's the right way to think about it.
And our next question comes from the line of David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a big picture question on emerging markets and also on Kashi.
The emerging markets have been pretty good for some of these other food companies.
It doesn't look like your emerging market businesses is -- it's tough to tease them out from some of your division numbers.
But it doesn't look like they're really hitting above their weight lately for Kellogg.
If I'm right in that supposition why is that do you think? Well I think our emerging markets actually are doing pretty well and have potential to do even more.
If you look at our emerging markets really all of Latin America is in emerging markets in the Kellogg Company.
I think we had a very strong quarter in Latin America.
You go across Asia Pacific -- and really Australia is bringing down the results of Asia.
If you looked at Asia in isolation we've got strong sales growth and profit growth very strong growth in India South Africa Korea.
So we're very happy there.
And then you go across to Europe and as we've said before in some respects while it sounds strange Continental Europe is a little bit of an emerging cereal market.
And we're seeing mid single-digit growth there.
Russia and China Russia and China both saw a little bit of volume decline in the quarter which is what we anticipated.
But we are making the right long-term progress in Russia.
And as we said before in China we're probably looking at taking a slightly different approach.
And in that context in terms of what we want to do as a company going forward is to take the lessons learned from our Turkish joint venture and say there are opportunities for us to even more aggressively open up some emerging markets around the world by working with other companies in joint venture type situations.
Research Division</strong> And just briefly on Kashi that's slowed in the last few months or so.
And we've seen so many brands that are high index high to women and to higher income women in particular that do pretty well in this environment.
In Kashi I would think would be that.
Why isn't Kashi more of an engine these days? Well I think Kashi has an opportunity to get back to be more of an engine.
I think we need to again pick up the rate of innovation on the Kashi business.
And we're driving very strong plans for 2012.
I think we saw Kashi actually did pretty well in the first half.
It did have a tougher third quarter and we're hoping to have a stronger fourth quarter and get back on track.
Sorry Karen we have time for 1 more question please.
Our final question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about your long-term growth targets.
If we assume commodities sort of level off some time in 2012 and your top line returns to sort of a more low single-digit range maybe 1/2 price mix 1/2 volume and maybe your productivity isn't a 5% benefit maybe it's more like a 4% are you -- and you got a couple of points for share repurchase.
Is that -- should we be thinking sort of 7% to 8% long-term EPS growth? Or do you think it will be in the more 8% to 10% range? Our long-term growth targets for earnings per share will be in the 7% to 9% range and we fully expect we'll be well within that as we move back with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no change due to the increased investment in supply chain and...
No.
All right everybody.
Thanks for joining us on the call.
We look forward to seeing or speaking to you over the next few days.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tyrone.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for a review of our full year and fourth quarter 2011 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant our President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday February 6.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for 90 days.
Now I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Simon.
The fourth quarter was a strong finish to a difficult year.
We delivered continued strong top line growth in the quarter and the full year.
In fact fourth quarter growth was 6% and we ended the year with full year growth of 4.5% above our long-term targets and in line with guidance.
And the growth was broad-based across most geographies and categories.
In addition our categories continue to perform well and we gained share in many of them around the world.
However the results below net sales while in line with recent guidance were below our initial expectations and our long-term targets.
As you all know we increased the scope of our existing supply chain investment in the third quarter.
This had a significant impact on the fourth quarter and full year results as expected.
In addition increased investment and reinstated incentive compensation costs also had an impact on full year results.
We view 2011 and 2012 as transition years given investment in our supply chain and incremental support of our brands in 2012.
While we don't want to be in the position of lowering guidance we recognized during the year that we had issues in our supply chain that needed to be addressed and we know that addressing those issues as quickly as we can is the right thing to do.
We look forward to 2012 and beyond with optimism as we continue this investment make significant additional investments in future growth and focus on the long-term drivers of our sustainable growth operating principle.
Now let's turn to Slide 4 which details these drivers.
Our sustainable growth operating principle the actions we took in 2011 and the things we are doing in 2012 are all designed to get us back on the path to sustainable growth.
This is a familiar slide to many but not all of you.
As you can see on an ongoing basis we constantly focus on the consumer and the strength of our brands.
And as we said on the third quarter conference call we expect an increase in the investment we will make in brand building in 2012 and we expect significant sales from innovation during the year.
That's on top of posting approximately $800 million in incremental sales from innovation in 2011.
In addition we have a disciplined approach to overhead and have done a good job with this over the years and 2012 will be no exception.
Innovation building on a foundation of consistent brand building will help improve price and mix which has an impact on sales and should increase gross profit dollars and in a year of normalized inflation should also increase gross profit margin.
While gross margin in 2012 is likely to be down slightly because of our expectations for another year of unusually high inflation we believe that this sustainable growth model is the right way to run our business over the long term and we recognize that we have to invest this year to help next year and beyond.
And now I'll turn it over to Ron for a review of our financial performance.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
If you'll turn to Slide 5 you'll see as John mentioned that we delivered strong internal top line growth of 6% in the fourth quarter and 4.5% for the full year.
Both results are above our long-term targets and we're pleased with the company's continued top line momentum.
Internal operating profit growth was 20.5% in the fourth quarter driven primarily by our sales growth.
For the full year internal operating profit declined by 2.9%.
These results were in line with our guidance.
As we said on our third quarter earnings call full year operating profit was significantly impacted by our supply chain investments commodity inflation and the reinstatement of our incentive compensation costs.
In fact for the full year the incentive compensation costs lowered operating profit by approximately 5 points and the supply chain investments also impacted operating profit by a similar amount.
So underlying operating profit growth would have been in line with our long-term targets without the impact of these discrete items and lapping the cereal recall from 2010.
Both reported and currency neutral earnings per share increased by 25% in the fourth quarter.
For the full year reported earnings per share were up 2.4% and currency neutral earnings per share were flat in line with our guidance.
Now let's turn to Slide 6 for a review of the components of revenue growth.
Volume decreased slightly in the fourth quarter and was flat for the full year in line with our expectations.
We are happy with our net sales growth this year including the very strong price mix growth of 6.6% in the fourth quarter and 4.5% for the full year.
While pricing actions were the primary contributor to our growth we also saw good mix improvement across our businesses.
Currency translation benefited our full year results by 2 points but have reduced our sales growth by 6/10 of 1 point in the fourth quarter and we expect currency to be a headwind in 2012 as well.
So we remain pleased of revenue growth for both the full year and the fourth quarter exceeded our long-term targets and importantly we expect continued strong growth in 2012.
Slide 7 details gross profit and gross margin results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Fourth quarter gross profit was $1.2 billion and internal growth was 4%.
For the full year gross profit was $5.4 billion and internal growth was 1%.
Our gross margin declined by 70 basis points in the quarter to 40.9%.
The supply chain investments had a considerable impact on our fourth quarter results lowering gross margin by more than 100 basis points.
On a full year basis gross margin declined by 140 basis points to 41.3% in line with previous guidance with supply chain investments contributing more than half of the decline.
These investments were primarily made across our U.S.
network and included cost to add people back into our plants increased logistics costs and reduced operating leverage caused by some production lines being down for refurbishment.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 and our brand building investment for the full year.
As you can see brand building investment was back end weighted in 2010 but was much more evenly distributed in 2011.
This led to some unusual comparisons as we progressed through this year.
For the full year our brand building was essentially flat due to our decision to reduce investment across Europe.
We make our investments where we see the greatest returns and quite frankly we didn't see the returns we wanted in Europe.
What you can't see on this slide is the shift of our spending in recent years to digital media.
This shift has allowed us to partially offset inflation and increase effectiveness at the same time.
We've done a lot of work measuring the optimization of our mix and we'll continue to review our spending plans in 2012.
We expect brand building to increase at a rate at least equal to sales growth in 2012 providing us with funds to support our innovation pipeline and exciting commercial ideas.
Slide 9 shows our advertising as a percentage of net sales versus the peer group.
We have the highest investment rate in the peer group.
While this was partially the result of the categories in which we compete it is also due to our commitment to advertising and brand building as a whole.
We're a branded food company and we recognize that having strong brands is essential to our success.
Slide 10 details internal operating profit performance for the company and each of the businesses for both the full year and the fourth quarter.
Operating profit increased by 21% in the quarter but decreased 3% for the year driven by supply chain investments commodity costs and the reinstated incentive compensation costs.
North America internal operating profit increased by 18% in the quarter driven by very strong sales growth and the timing of brand building.
Of course our ongoing supply chain investments and reinstatement of incentive compensation had a negative effect on operating profit growth resulting in a decline of 1% for the full year.
Europe's internal operating profit declined by 11% in the fourth quarter due in part to a decline in sales that resulted from the continued difficult operating environment in the region.
While we saw some pricing and mix improvements in the region they were not sufficient to cover commodity cost increases and volume declines.
In Latin America internal operating profit declined by 10% in the fourth quarter largely as a result of significant double-digit increases in the level of brand building.
We also increased brand building at a double-digit rate for the full year driving sales growth of 10% and operating profit growth of 9%.
So a great achievement by the team in Latin America.
And internal operating profit in Asia Pacific increased by 430% due largely to last year's impairment of assets in China.
Without this impact operating profit would have increased by approximately 50% driven by broad-based sales growth.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 and cash flow.
Our full year cash flow was slightly more than $1 billion.
Working capital was higher due to an increase in receivables.
This increase resulted from strong sales in the quarter driven by our innovation launches and Special K New Year's resolutions programs.
Our inventories also increased year-over-year to support our new product introductions and maintain appropriate levels of service while working on our supply chain infrastructure.
Importantly though year-end trade inventories were approximately unchanged from last year's level.
Capital spending equaled 4.5% of net sales due to investment in our supply chain infrastructure and capacity requirements in certain markets.
And for the full year we've repurchased approximately $800 million in shares which means we have approximately $650 million of our $2.5 billion 3-year program remaining.
Slide 12 shows the history of our improvement in core working capital over the years.
We have gone from a high of almost 12% in 2000 to an industry-leading level of less than 7% today.
We realize that core working capital has increased slightly over the past few years but we see this as an opportunity for future cash flow improvement in 2012 and future years.
As I mentioned 2011 was impacted by the timing of our Special K Resolution program and new product introductions.
Slide 13 details the cash we returned to shareholders over the last 5 years.
As you can see we've returned approximately $6 billion over that time and the amounts has been well-balanced over the period between both dividends and share repurchases.
We also used our cash to maintain targeted levels of debt and to allow us to pursue complementary acquisitions.
We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders and are pleased with our performance over the years.
Slide 14 shows the detailed full-year guidance that we always provide on fourth quarter conference calls.
We are reaffirming the guidance that we provided last quarter.
We expect continued strong revenue growth of between 4% and 5% in 2012.
This growth will be the result of price realization and mix improvements driven by innovation and supported by increased investment in brand building.
In fact we continue to expect that annual brand building investment will increase at a rate equal to or greater than the strong rate of revenue growth.
Gross margin will be down slightly.
We anticipate around 7% cost of goods inflation most of which will be driven by commodity and packaging inflation.
We expect savings from productivity to be slightly above 3% consistent with our long-term targets.
We continue to expect that operating profit will be flat to up slightly for the full year.
This is the result of our increased brand building investment and IT costs associated with the update of our SAP platform.
We expect interest expense to be slightly favorable versus 2011 and the full year tax rate to be higher at approximately 30%.
Currency neutral earnings per share are expected to increase between 2% and 4% or to a range between $3.45 and $3.52 per share.
When we ran spot rates a couple of days ago the analysis suggested that currencies will reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.04.
Obviously that estimate will change during the year and we will update you each quarter with our expectations.
We anticipate that cash flow will be in a range between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion.
Capital spending is expected to be between 4% and 5% of sales above our long-term run rate of 3% to 4%.
And we plan to finish the remaining $650 million of our current share repurchase program.
So all in all 2012 will be a year where we continue to set the foundation for future growth to our sustainable growth operating principle.
As John said we remain committed to this principle and the generation of profitable sales growth and improving cash flow and return on invested capital over time.
We're making good progress and we'll continue to drive improvement in 2012 and beyond.
And while we don't normally provide quarterly guidance I thought it would be important to remind you of a few items that will impact the first quarter.
As you know we increased the level of investment in our supply chain in Q3 of 2011 and that investment is continuing.
Second we had some discrete items that lowered our tax rate several points in the first quarter of 2011.
And finally the $0.04 of currency impact we expect this year primarily impacts the first half of the year.
And with that I'll turn it over to John for a review of the individual businesses.
Thanks Ron.
If you will turn to Slide 15 you'll see some of the recent innovation we've launched.
As you know every year we launch a significant number of new products across both regions and categories.
For example this year we have Morningstar Farms meal starters for people lowering their intake of meat.
We have All-Bran breakfast biscuits in Europe and on-the-go breakfast for adults.
And we have Kashi steamed meals to name just a few.
This isn't all of the innovation we have but it does give you an idea of the activity we've had and some of the exciting new products we've introduced.
Slide 16 shows a few highlights from the innovation that's been launched recently.
The intention of this slide is to highlight some of the kinds of innovation we've targeted.
For years we have successfully transferred ideas from one region to another and we continue to focus on this.
The slide shows just 2 recent examples: Mini Max a version of the U.S.' small Mini-Wheats which we recently launched in the U.K.; and Krave a product launching in the U.S.
and Mexico that's been very popular in Europe.
And it's not just the food that travels.
The positioning of Mini Max in the U.K.
full and focused children is very similar to the U.S.
positioning of Mini-Wheats.
A new product for us Special K Cracker Chips has been very successful in its first year and we have 2 new flavors that have been introduced early in 2012.
In fact Cracker Chips is one of our most successful cracker innovations.
We've gained share and sales have far exceeded our expectations.
Gluten-free Rice Krispies is an example of innovations that addresses the trend toward gluten-free products.
This was also something that we successfully focused on the past and finally the Natural Food channel has posted strong growth over the years and our Kashi brand is well-positioned to capitalize on this.
As a result we have recently introduced a new version of GOLEAN Crisp! cereal and other products within this exciting category.
And as we mentioned last quarter we have a significant amount of innovation planed for 2012 which will build on the good year we had in 2011.
Slide 17 shows the top line results for Kellogg North America and Kellogg International over the last year.
Both businesses posted strong revenue growth for the full year and in the fourth quarter.
Kellogg North America posted 5% growth for the full year and 7% growth in the fourth quarter.
Kellogg International posted 3% growth for the full year and 5% growth in the fourth quarter.
Now let's look at Slide 18 and some more detail regarding the North American business.
The total North American business exceeded our long-term sales growth targets in 2011 and in the fourth quarter.
And as you can see each of the individual businesses met or exceeded these targets.
Cereal snacks and frozen and Specialty Channels all benefited from good innovation programs which helped drive the sales growth.
These results are further evidence of the continued underlying strength of our business.
Slide 19 details the performance of the North America Retail Cereal business.
Fourth quarter growth was 1% and full year growth was 4%.
In conjunction with this we also gained category share in 2011 and you can see in measured channel data that we've done this while moving our focus away from promotional spending and while growing quality merchandising.
Of course we remain committed to investment in brand building.
Innovation drives category growth and we significantly over-indexed in cereal innovation.
New products contributed to the quarterly and full year growth including Special K Oats &amp; Honey Crunchy Nut and Touch of Fruit Mini-Wheats.
In addition core products such as Frosted Flakes had a very good year as a result of effective brand building programs.
We expect the cereal category to be more challenging in 2012.
However we do have a strong innovation program planned which includes the introduction of Krave.
And although it is early initial indications are that Krave is off to a good start.
We also have flavor extensions planned for 2 innovations from 2011: Crunchy Nut and Touch of Fruit Mini-Wheats.
And we also have some packaging innovation underway and brand building programs planned to behind Frosted Flakes Special K and Mini-Wheats.
Turning to Slide 20 and Retail Snacks we closed the year with another quarter of excellent growth.
In fact the snacks business posted full year revenue growth of 5% and crackers wholesome snacks and cookies all posted growth.
The cracker business posted double-digit growth in the fourth quarter and high single-digit growth for the full year.
And we gained share behind strength in Special K Cracker Chips and Cheez-It.
As I mentioned earlier Special K Cracker Chips had been one of our most successful new launches ever in this category and we're excited by the strong start to 2012 posted by both the existing flavors and the 2 new ones we've just introduced.
In cookies our focus on the Keebler brand is working.
In fact the brand had a very good quarter posting strong sales growth and the category grew in both the quarter and the full year as well.
And in the wholesome snacks category growth was good and built on a double-digit comp last year.
Growth in our business was driven by Special K bars which posted good results in both the fourth quarter and for the full year.
And FiberPlus continues to do well in its third year and the newest introduction caramel coconut fudge is already as large as each of the other 3 flavors.
Finally Pop-Tarts again grew share in 2011 behind new introductions such as the popular Mini Crisps.
Now let's turn to Slide 21 which shows the performance of our frozen and Specialty Channels businesses.
The business posted 10% growth for the full year and 14% sales growth in the fourth quarter lapping 8% growth in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Eggo posted category share gains in 2011 and the category itself continued to grow at mid-single-digit rates and we expect the frozen business to continue to grow faster than the company overall.
We recently launched 6 new products including waffles new large Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy Simply Eggo and Eggo Protein Original Waffles.
And we also have a strong brand building program planned for the first quarter.
Morningstar Farms continued to increase its category share as well in 2011 and we have new brand building planned in innovation being launched in the first quarter.
And we're also launching 4 SKUs of new Kashi Steamed Meals.
These meals prepared in minutes and provide the combination of taste and nutrition you'd expect from Kashi.
And our Specialty Channels business posted strong double-digit growth in the fourth quarter and we increased sales in all of our major customers in 2011.
Slide 22 shows the performance of our international businesses for the quarter and the year.
Total internal sales growth was 5% in the fourth quarter and 3% for the full year.
Europe posted sales declines of 1% for the quarter and the year.
The operating environment in Europe continues to be difficult as a result of economic conditions and competitive activity.
In the U.K.
our largest business in the region we have seen high levels of competitive activity in a challenging retail environment.
As we mentioned last quarter we have too little innovation and support in the U.K.
in recent months but we have recently launched All-Bran Golden Crunch new flavors of Krave and Mini Max as I mentioned earlier.
We have a better pipeline of ideas and support planned for the U.K.
in 2012 although we recognize that it will continue to be a difficult environment.
The rest of Europe also reported mixed results in 2011 with France and Italy posting good growth and weaker results in some other markets.
Sales growth was good in Russia where we continue to transition from a non-branded to a branded product mix.
We remain confident regarding the long-term prospects in Europe and we won't be happy until we return this business to its historical rates of growth.
However the entire regions is being affected by the current economic situation and although we have stronger plans for 2012 we expect the environment to remain challenging.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter and 4% for the full year.
In Australia we gained cereal category share in the fourth quarter and the customer issue we referenced last quarter has been resolved.
In Asia sales in the quarter increased at a high single-digit rate driven by strong growth in India South Africa and Korea.
And we expect continued strong growth from this region in 2012.
Our Latin American business grew by 10% in 2011 and closed the year with 15% internal sales growth in the fourth quarter.
Investment in brand building increased at a double-digit rate in the fourth quarter behind increased innovation activity and also increased at a double-digit rate for the full year.
The business doubled its rate of innovation in 2011 including the introduction of Krave in Mexico in September which has had early success and already has more than 1 point of category share.
In addition we relaunched the Special K brand across the region which has also gone well.
And we launched new versions of Rice Krispies Choco Krispies Froot Loops Special K bars and All-Bran bars.
While Latin America is always a volatile economic environment we're confident in our growth plans for the region.
Now let's turn to Slide 23.
We're running the business the right way for the long term.
We continue to invest in our brands and bring exciting innovation to consumers.
We have invested back in our supply chain to ensure that we have the right supply chain for today and the future.
We remain committed to our proven operating principles and our strong businesses in good categories.
And finally we also remain committed to our long-term targets of 3% to 4% internal sales growth 4% to 6% internal operating profit growth and 7% to 9% currency neutral earnings per share growth.
I believe that we are doing the right things for the future of the company things that are driving strong sales growth now and that will drive sustainable performance in the years to come.
And with that I'll open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to jump into the lower SG&amp;A margin a bit.
You cited lower brand building and that makes sense but wasn't this an issue last quarter too? So I'm curious what the other drivers were besides that and the lapping of the China impairments cost of course to the lower SG&amp;A margin.
If you could walk us through some of the magnitude there it would be helpful and maybe address some of the sustainability of that margin has declined to.
Ken it's Ron.
Really the primary driver of the decline in SG&amp;A margin is the strong sales growth that we had in the quarter.
We did say that our brand building timed a bit differently over the course of 2012 versus 2011.
Quite frankly that was relatively small in the fourth quarter.
We were down around $10 million on brand building 30 basis points of that SG&amp;A margin impact.
So really it's a function of a strong sales growth Ken.
Research Division</strong> Just as a quick follow-up I mean you had strong sales growth in the past and we haven't seen this kind of drop in SG&amp;A.
So was there something different maybe this quarter that would have driven it down? I understand that the higher sales and the higher volumes will of course benefit your fixed costs leverage but I was just a little surprised to see the magnitude there this time.
There isn't Ken.
I mean it's really the strong sales growth.
There are no other unusual or unique items.
You mentioned the China impairment but frankly our overhead's relatively consistent year-over-year.
Our next question is from Scott Mushkin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to -- our first blush at this Nielsen data was pretty poor at least in the measured channel as we look at it just generally speaking we haven't got into a lot of details.
And I just want to understand what your thought process is.
We've seen some comments from other people about a lot of channel shifting but it seems like it can't all be channel shifting.
So I want to see what your thoughts are on just kind of a -- what's going on in January? And do you think the consumer's really taking a step back in the food channel or is there something else going on? And then my second question really you talked a lot about your new product development.
I look forward to it but I was wondering if you could maybe delve in to a little bit your acquisition strategy if things have changed in your thought process there particularly at maybe acquiring some of these kind of the healthier brands? Scott firstly on the measured data we are seeing a larger gap between measured data and our assessment of how some of the categories are performing.
I'll give you one example U.S.
cereal.
The measured data would suggest something like 1% to 2% category growth in the fourth quarter and we saw more like 2% to 3%.
So I think you need to add roughly 2 points of growth to the measured data to get to the non-measured or total category performance.
So I would suggest some channel shifting going on within the environment.
Secondly on acquisition strategy we continue to look at acquisitions around the world bolt-on acquisitions.
They can be in the area of healthier brands like BearNaked or they can be in the area of snacks.
They can be international.
So we continue to look and it's something that we are always focused on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as you look forward to follow-up on a little bit on kind of how you deploy capital.
I mean how do you -- as you look at this how do you think acquisitions play into it? Our uses of cash Scott are very consistent with what we've done in the past.
Certainly we recognize the importance of our dividend.
I talked about the share repurchase program and repurchasing approximately $650 million of shares in 2012.
So basically the remainder of our program.
And then we'll look at complementary acquisitions.
So it's really a combination of those 3.
In the past when we've done small acquisitions this tended to be a small increase in our debt.
I think if we did a larger acquisitions that might look at that share buyback piece.
But in general it's really just an addition to our cash returns.
Our next question is from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> John did I hear you right that I think you said that you expect the cereal category to be a little bit more difficult in 2012 than it was in 2011? If so is that more of a consumer concern or is it more related to your expectations for what the promotional environment's going to look like this year? Ed I think the cereal category is always an intensely competitive category.
I think it's a good long-term category it's on trend from the health and wellness nutrition perspective aging population out-of-breakfast snacking and so on.
But this really is a sort of low single-digit growth type category.
And we're expecting that sort of performance in 2012 as well.
I think it's also worth pointing out that we have been moving some of our promoted price points in the category.
So in the fourth quarter we increased our promoted price points on our medium-sized kid brands from $1.99 to $2.49; and on Special K and Rice Krispies Treats -- Rice Krispies from $2.49 to $2.99.
And as we've done that we've seen some volume loss as consumers get used to the new price points and I expect that to continue probably into the first quarter.
So I think that's more where we're seeing just some of the impact of the pricing go through the category and consumers get used to the new price points.
Our next question is from Andrew Lazar of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> John and Ron you talked about gross margin likely being down a bit in 2012 for the year.
Just trying to get a better sense of the drivers there.
You've got probably 4% to 5% pricing.
You talked about productivity of 3% which should be I would think more than enough to offset what is still going to be clearly an inflationary year for you.
Are there other things is it some additional of the supply-chain spending working through? Maybe just a little bit of the buckets that are impacting your margin for the year would be helpful.
Sure Andrew this is Ron.
In terms of our cost inflation we said is around 7% and cost saving's around 3%.
So think of it at approximately a net 4% of inflation.
We talked about top line being up 4% to 5% in the combination of price and mix.
And it's probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 75% price 25% mix.
So when you rattle all of that through our gross profit dollars are growing slightly lower than our sales growth which is driving the margin down.
In terms of the supply chain investments Andrew as we've said very consistent levels of spending in 2012 as we had in 2011.
Our next question is from David Driscoll of Citi Invest.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on SG&amp;A but my question will be a little bit more detailed.
So during the first 3 quarters of 2011 SG&amp;A cost rose by 8%.
In the fourth quarter declined by 0.4% and that's after backing out the China impairment charge in 4Q '10.
So I'm trying to make the numbers all apples to apples.
I realized that incentive comp was up about $100 million and on a dollar basis that seems to leave about $100 million of increase year-on-year in SG&amp;A for the full year to be explained.
So Ron can you try to tackle the question in that form? And then there'll be a follow-on related to how to think about 2012.
Yes.
In terms of our SG&amp;A being up in the front part of the year remember we discussed the timing of brand building.
In 2010 our brand building was a little bit soft in the front half and in 2011 our brand building was up in the front half versus 2010.
So that's certainly a factor.
You talked a little bit about the incentive compensation.
That was spread more over the back end of the year.
So really it's a function of those 2 items and then just general overhead inflation very consistent with our expectations of growing our overhead at half the rate of sales growth.
Research Division</strong> And then in 2012 would you -- obviously we don't have the incentive comp issue but would you expect the rate of growth underlying that? So you made the explicit comments on brand building leaving brand building out of it the rest of the bucket in SG&amp;A would you expect it to grow consistent with what we saw in 2011? We still are very disciplined on overhead and recall our operating principle on overhead growth is to grow it at half the rate of sales growth.
So you'd see kind of that level of growth flowing through our overhead and then we said we were making a meaningful step up in brand building.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify in the $100 million that you're spending on supply chain can you quantify how much of that is related to asset write-downs in 2011? Same question for 2012.
There wouldn't be a lot of asset write-down necessarily within that $100 million.
We do have some money tied up in upfront costs David but the $100 million is a combination of ongoing and a small amount of onetime costs and then depreciation related to the step up in capital spending.
If I could just jump in on that.
I think it's important on the supply chain just to step back here a bit.
We have completed our evaluation across our network of things that we need to do we're making the right decisions here to build the foundation for the long term.
In 2011 a portion of that $100 million was additional people in the plants and additional depreciation from step up in capital as well as some onetime-type costs as we did some changes in our network.
In 2012 we now have a full year of those people costs.
We have another step up in depreciation from the additional capital and we have a smaller amount of onetime costs if you like or unusual cost.
As we go forward we see that $100 million as a step up in our cost structure.
So we don't expect that to come back out again.
However of course we're always looking to be more efficient in our supply chain.
If we can find a way to decrease those costs over time we will.
But we're confident also these investments will generate a return for us long term because these people in our plants will help us identify additional different productivity savings in the future.
Our next question is from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
I wanted to ask about the Europe or really the U.K.
outlook and just I guess something that you pulled back on brand building there probably the appropriate move.
I'm just curious what you see there for say 2012 with the category and with your own performance where you've had some I think some products launched in that kind of thing in the category.
Chris Europe is our most difficult region as a company.
Really it breaks down into 3 different businesses.
First Russia and Russia grew high-single digits in 2011.
I think we're building a stronger business there over time it's continuing to transition from an bulk or non-branded business to a branded business.
And some of that happened in the fourth quarter.
In fact you saw some volume decline in Europe in the fourth quarter.
About half of that volume decline was actually some non-branded business that we were walking away from in Russia.
On the continent we saw improvement in the continent as we went through the year but then as we got into the back part of the year the continent started to go a little soft as well.
So we're seeing some growth in France and Italy but the remainder is mixed and I think the difficult economic environment and the state of the euro zone is weighing on our business in the continent.
In the U.K.
we have better plans in place for 2012.
We have a new General Manager who started January 1.
We actually managed to hold share in cereal in the fourth quarter but it is going to be a difficult environment with a tough retail environment a very competitive environment and a consumer under pressure.
As we look at Europe and 2012 we are hoping to see slight top line growth in Europe and hopefully we can hold operating profits stable year-on-year but there may even be a slight decline in operating profits just recognizing the difficulty of the environment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you increasing promotion in say the U.K.? It sounds like your toughest market.
Is that a factor in your revenue assumptions for 2012 for Europe? We did increase a little bit of spend and promotional activity in the fourth quarter to help stabilize the share.
What is interesting is in some of these markets in Europe our share of voice actually jumped to 75% to 80% as some of our competitors have pulled back dramatically on brand building and put their spend more into allowances.
That's not the game that we like to play.
Obviously we have to keep watching our plans in Europe and we'll have to take the appropriate actions as we go through the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a final or a quick one the U.S.
cereal inventories and where they stand today or generally how you feel about those inventories today? We feel good about the inventories.
They're at a very similar level from a trade inventory perspective as last year.
And so it's a pretty good position.
Our next question is from Ken Zaslow of BMO Capital.
You touched on it a little bit but can you talk about the progress of the supply chain investments? Have you found any surprises either to the upside or the downside in how you are allocating the capital? And can you also talk about again the progress of where you are and what you're spending on right now and what you will be progressively spending on throughout the year? Well we're tracking along right in line with our expectations on the supply chain.
We're executing against a plan that we developed in the back part of last year.
I wouldn't say there's been any major surprises one way or the other and that plan includes adding people back into some of the facilities additional capital and depreciation related to that and some movement of product around the plants to do some things we want to do in these plants.
So no real changes there.
And then in terms of the time frame what have you done now and then what do you expect to do in the back half in terms of -- maybe a little bit more specifics if possible? Well maybe I'll go to the weighting of investment over the course of the year.
I think we'd expect that investment to be relatively consistent or even over the course of the year versus it being somewhat back end weighted in 2011.
Our next question is from Tim Ramey of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> The performance in 2011 2012 reminds me a bit of back in '98 '99 when volume to value was kind of introduced as a concept and it worked then longer term.
I know it's always worked for Kellogg but your guidance for '12 sounds like it implies maybe flat to slightly down volume.
When do you think we'll be able to start to see more tonnage increases? And if you could give us any kind of color on what the regional tonnage outlook is.
Do you expect volume to be down in Europe for instance? Tim I agree with you that if you go back to '98 '99 it is similar to that timeframe right now for the Kellogg Company.
I think we are back on our sustainable -- trying to get back on our sustainable growth model.
I think if you look in 2011 we had strong underlying sales growth.
And if you try to get to the true earnings power of the company I believe it's stronger than it appears on the surface.
So if you adjust 2011 for the incentive compensation you've got 5 points of headwind.
You adjust for the supply chain changes that we made about another 5 points of headwind and then you adjust say for lapping the recall last year.
You try to pull all that together I think you'll see the core earnings power of the company is at mid-single-digit operating profit growth.
And I think as we go forward here we'll continue to play the mix game element of the sustainable growth model.
So it's not about just a focus on volume it's about driving the top line and up-weighting the consumer or driving the consumer to higher value-added products which we are seeing with launch of Crunchy Nut FiberPlus and Krave in the first quarter of this year.
So I think we are on that path.
In terms of volume itself I believe that volume growth is being held back by the level of pricing that's being required to take to offset inflation.
Unfortunately I think we need to take that level of pricing.
We need to protect the economics of the business first and foremost so we can invest back in brand building and drive the business the right way.
Hopefully we get a period here of more normalized inflation.
We probably then have less pricing and have a better balance of volume price and mix to drive the top line.
On the regional volume cost [ph] I don't want to give guidance at a regional level.
I think it's fair to say that volume is likely to be under pressure in Europe in 2012.
Our next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Simon is a little bit more physically intimidating than Catherine so I'll try to keep my questions to a limited number.
I guess first just more specifically on upfront charges what do you expect for 2012? Our upfront costs Eric in 2012 will be very consistent with 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as usual I assume that you are including those in your dollar earnings guidance? Absolutely we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess maybe this goes back to Ken's question but on the segment results looking back over the last whatever 10 to 15 years the fourth quarter profit has been anywhere in North America anywhere from $50 million to $100 million lower sequentially.
And I've asked about this in the past and you've always said well it's kind of the way we accrue things et cetera et cetera but with the supply chain investments and I'm just kind of very surprised that the sequential profit in North America was so solid.
I mean was there -- were there like those recall insurance proceeds in there or -- because it just doesn't seem that because you had some sales lift which again isn't that different versus history that you would just have such solid sequential profits when history has suggested the exact opposite even excluding all this spending.
Eric in terms of the performance in North America and really the company as a whole the fourth quarter results were primarily a function of that strong sales growth and really good price realization in that quarter as well.
Eric I think if you look at the SG&amp;A absolute dollar spend year-on-year it didn't change very much.
But the sales line comes through the top and just rolls through the P&amp;L.
So our economics are very top-line sensitive.
We can drive the top line we get very good operating leverage and expansion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a last follow-up I was a little bit surprised at your response to the M&amp;A question.
You brought in a lot of new people you're literally fixing some plant floors.
The last couple of acquisitions have been a real struggle.
So are you kind of suggesting that you're comfortable enough to make a deal tomorrow? Or was that really more of a long-term type of response? Eric I think we're always looking at acquisitions.
And I think we've had a reasonably good track record over the years of acquisitions.
So I'm not trying to signal anything here to you.
I'm just saying that it's always something that we're constantly reviewing and looking at in the marketplace.
Our next question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about the emergence of alternative channels? And I'm thinking particularly very fast-growing areas like the Dollar Store channel.
It seems to me that in the past a lot of the growth was coming from the Wal-Mart supercenters and we've heard a number of companies or a couple of companies recently saying they're moving more towards third-party distribution models.
Could you basically just give us some commentary about how this change in the retail environment is changing your operations from a manufacturing and supply-chain perspective? And is it a big burden on the company as it changes? We are seeing growth Alexia in channels like Dollar and club.
And I think it is a consumer looking for value whether it's an absolute price point in Dollar or price per pound in club.
I don't think it's impacting our go-to-market strategy.
We try to keep our margins relatively stable across the channels if you look at the total cost to serve of that channel.
And we have very good execution capabilities in those channels already.
Our next question is from Eric Serotta of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to follow-up on Tim's question with respect to volumes.
This is basically the third year in a row of kind of flat to down volumes.
When you look at 2011 and the 2012 outlook how much did the volume deleveraging have an impact on your gross and operating margins? If you could sort of I know you're not going to give us a specific number but if you could help dimensionalize that that would be real helpful.
Yes.
Eric this is Ron.
Certainly our running volumes through our manufacturing plant has an impact on operating leverage but we try to manage that cost structure effectively even when volumes are down.
So I'd rather not quantify the impact of volume absorption across our business.
And to put that volume into context 2011 our volume was essentially flat.
In fact if you back out some of the abnormal items such as China volume lossage is a business that we have subsequently sold and some volume loss in Russia as we move away from non-branded business in that market our volume as a company actually will be up slightly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you look to 2012 are you anticipating a negative impact from volume deleveraging? I think it's reasonable to expect volume again to be under pressure flattish maybe down slightly in 2012 reflecting the level of pricing we've had to take.
And obviously we've put that thinking into our cost structure as we run our plants.
But we're not talking about dramatic volume declines here.
Our next question is from Jonathan Feeney of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John thinking back I thought Tim made a good point about volume to value.
In a more pointed way your stack-to-volume since Q4 2007 I'm just looking at the disclosed numbers here is down about 11.4% it looks like.
And on a consolidated basis it's down about 4%.
So when we think about the next 4 years I see how volume-to-value might make sense.
Is it your -- I mean Ron mentioned you're sort of shifting ad spend out of some markets and into others to where there's return.
What you saw it seemed to me in early 2000s though was an increase in advertising spending.
And of course while coming off high levels you seem to be decreasing advertising spending at the moment.
So I just -- I kind of want understand like how you think about that ROI and if that's in fact the plan.
Do we get to where our relative ad spend level is appropriate to the current sort of opportunities set that you see? As you know our business response to innovation and brand building and we are increasing our brand building and our advertising meaningfully in 2012.
Certainly we expect that to have an impact on volume but with the level of price that we're putting into the marketplace.
We think our volume as John says is more likely to be flat to slightly down.
And I think as our position on brand building is looking to increase in 2012 and we think that's a part of getting us back on our sustainable growth model and that in time should help us drive a bit of balance between volume price and mix.
And Tyrone I think we have time for one more question.
Our final question is from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up another follow-up on your euro cereal comment John being difficult.
And you mentioned that pricing is hurting the category and the promoted price points in particular are going up.
And that makes sense that that was going to probably hurt promoted volume in the near term.
But we've seen cereal do well during periods of inflation before and pricing go through in this category because it's still pretty cheap eats particularly for the food value that it gives Americans.
It tends to do well during these periods of inflation.
And this time it doesn't feel like the momentum is there.
It's not all that great even when you look at the behavior of the company it's like they don't seem to have this fly wheel of innovation and increased spending behind it where the momentum's there and you're feeding this animal that is very responsive to that spending.
Is that comment fair John? I mean this category doesn't seem to have the momentum yet? Well I think that if the category's doing reasonably well in a difficult environment.
In the fourth quarter we think the category was up something like 2% to 3%; full year up 1% to 2%.
When you take into account all of the channels not just the measured channels which unfortunately lack some of the growth that we're seeing elsewhere in the category.
And we've taken a number of price increases in U.S.
cereal and our base sales are actually hanging together reasonably well.
I think when you move your promoted price points you're going to have a little bit more of an impact in the short term as the consumers get used to that.
And I think that's what we're seeing in the case of our business in the fourth quarter probably into the first quarter of this year.
So I think if you step back from the category it is a good category.
It is driven by innovation and by brand building.
I believe that the category growth is determined by the combination of what all the manufacturers do.
We're driving innovation hard.
We're driving brand building.
I think some other players are talking about doing similar things and I expect that in combination to grow in the category.
I don't see it as a 0-sum gain.
Okay everyone thanks very much for participating today and we'll be available afterwards for follow-ups as usual.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Kellogg Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'll turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Hewey.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our first quarter 2012 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant our President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday April 30 and the call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Simon and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
We posted lower-than-expected results in the first quarter in what proved to be a difficult operating environment.
In fact as you have seen in the data volume growth across the industry and across most categories in the U.S.
was challenging in the quarter.
The results we announced on Monday were obviously disappointing.
However we have recognized over the years that setting realistic goals is an important driver of the success of our business.
Given the difficult start to the year we have revised our growth expectations for 2012.
We believe that 2% to 3% sales growth for the year is a pragmatic goal and is one that allows us to follow our long-term model and invest in future growth.
Lowering guidance is never easy but it makes it possible for us to remain committed to our operating principles.
As you'll remember from the fourth quarter call we anticipated a continued difficult environment in specific categories and geographies throughout the year.
This was certainly the case in Europe.
We will discuss this in more detail later but Europe's weak performance accounted for the majority of the impact on the quarter.
As a result of this and the early weakness in the U.S.
total internal revenue growth for the quarter was approximately flat lower than we originally expected.
It's also important to note that while we've adjusted our expectations for full year revenue growth because of weaker-than-expected revenue performance in the first quarter we've adjusted our expectations for operating profit and earnings to allow us to continue to invest in the future growth of the business while also absorbing the impact of the first quarter.
Obviously the timing of this year's delivery and even the shape will likely change given the first quarter's results and the pending acquisition of Pringles that we announced in February.
Also as we told you last quarter we still see 2012 as a continuation of the transition we began in 2011.
As I've said we remain committed to driving future growth and plan to invest in the business.
As you might imagine however the inclusion of Pringles will also change the timing and even the specifics of this investment.
The planning for the integration of the Pringles business remains on track.
It's still relatively early but we're making good progress.
We still expect to close the transaction around or before the middle of the year and look forward to the benefits that will accrue from the combination of these 2 fantastic businesses.
And now if you'll turn to Slide 4 you'll see some more detail regarding the progress we've made with the planning of the integration.
Both Kellogg and P&amp;G have transition planning teams in place.
We've evaluated the integration process we've highlighted the milestones we need to reach and when we need to reach them and we have a plan in place that will enable us to achieve our goals.
There's been a lot of work on both sides but things are progressing well.
The financing of the deal is also going well.
We've had good support from the banks and we expect a good reception from the market.
And as you might imagine we remain very excited about the strategic rationale of this combination.
As we discussed when we announced the transaction the growth potential we see and the international scale that Pringles provides are very important to us.
In addition while we didn't build any synergies from product expansion into the financials of the deal we do believe that there is the potential for us to recognize a meaningful amount over the years.
Obviously we'll give you more detail on future calls.
And finally Slide 5 gives an update on our supply chain initiative.
As you all know we increased the level of our investment by $100 million in 2011.
We will of course look for ways to reduce this amount but we remain committed to continually improving the entire supply chain organization.
We continue to make very good progress and as we've discussed previously are implementing Kellogg best practices across our North American network.
The supply chain organization is focused on producing great food improving customer service continuously improving both people and food safety productivity enhancements and executing our strategy while delivering the financial results.
And we continue to make considerable investment in facilities and our people.
This includes increasing the amount of training and improving its efficacy.
This investment in our processes and systems is driving increased engagement development and improved results and efficiencies.
I'm proud of the hard work undertaken by the whole organization and the improvements we have made.
This is an ongoing process and we're making good progress.
And now I'll turn it over to Ron for a review of our financial highlights.
Thanks John and good morning.
If you'll turn to Slide 6 you'll see our quarterly financial summary.
We posted reported revenue growth that was down approximately 1% in the quarter on top of 5% growth in the first quarter of last year.
Internal sales were approximately flat on top of 3% growth last year.
Internal operating profit decreased by 6% in the quarter.
The decline in profit is driven by higher commodity cost and weakness in our European business.
In addition operating profit was also negatively impacted by the shape of the investment in supply chain.
We mentioned in our guidance that commodity inflation was more front-half-weighted and supply chain investments would be made across the year.
Reported earnings per share were unchanged in the first quarter in line with our expectations.
It includes some below-the-line favorability.
Slide 7 details the components of sales growth in the first quarter.
As I mentioned reported sales decreased by 1% and internal sales were approximately flat including strong price and mix of 4.4%.
Tonnage declined by 4.5% as a result of the weakness in Europe and in U.S.
Morning Foods.
We continue to expect that volume will be under pressure this year but that it will improve as we progress through the year.
Finally currency decreased overall growth by approximately 1 point.
Slide 8 shows our gross profit performance for the quarter.
Gross profit for the quarter was $1.4 billion and gross margin declined by 90 basis points to 39.9%.
As we mentioned last quarter commodity inflation and a more evenly balanced investment in our supply chain would have a meaningful impact on this quarter's results.
These 2 factors contributed equally to our decline in gross margin.
Slide 9 shows the progression of our investment in brand building in recent quarters.
Investment declined in the first quarter although we were lapping a significant increase of 10% in the first quarter of 2011.
So it's partially an issue of comps and timing.
We have replanned our investment in Europe because we weren't seeing the returns we wanted in Q1.
In addition Europe invests a significant percentage of sales in brand building and although we've decreased this level for 2012 we're still investing more in the region than the company average on a percent-of-sales basis.
For the total company we still expect to increase brand building at a rate equal to or greater than sales growth for the full year.
Slide 10 shows our internal operating profit performance for each of the businesses by area and the company as a whole.
Operating profit decreased by 6% in the quarter with the decline being driven primarily by higher commodity costs weak results in Europe and increased supply chain investments.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by approximately 5% in the first quarter.
The impact of commodity cost inflation on this business was significant and the effect of the timing of the supply chain investment is primarily a North American issue.
Europe's internal operating profit declined by 20% in the quarter due to the lower sales and the continued difficult operating environment in certain parts of the region.
We have issues that we are addressing in this region and though the improvement will take some time we're optimistic that we're taking the right actions to improve performance.
John will discuss this in more detail shortly.
In Latin America internal operating profit increased by 11% in the first quarter driven by a strong 7% sales growth supported by double-digit increases in brand building.
The business continues to benefit from both good innovation and effective commercial programs.
And finally internal operating profit in Asia Pacific decreased by 1% due to some weakness in Australia and a customer dispute in the region.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 and cash flow.
Cash flow for the quarter was $277 million ahead of last year's $207 million.
Working capital was a little higher than we would like given the sales weakness in the quarter.
This will be an area of focus for us over the balance of the year as we plan to reduce inventory by lowering production in our plants.
Timing of capital spending contributed favorably to our cash flow performance although we still expect to invest at a rate of 4% to 5% of sales for the year.
And we purchased approximately $63 million in shares early in the quarter.
Obviously we still plan to significantly reduce the level of our share repurchases for the year in order to pay down debt associated with the Pringles acquisition.
Slide 12 details our full year guidance for 2012.
To be clear internal sales and internal operating profit exclude the impact of Pringles but our earnings per share guidance includes Pringles-related accretion and onetime costs as well as the impact of our reduced share repurchase program.
We have adjusted our expectations for internal net sales growth to a range between 2% and 3% and we expect volume to be down for the year softer than we originally planned.
The change in guidance is due mainly to the weakness we have seen in Europe and category softness in the U.S.
We expect that gross margin for the year will be down approximately 50 to 100 basis points and we also continue to anticipate around 7% COGS inflation driven by commodity inflation part of which will be offset by supply chain productivity savings.
In fact we continue to expect savings from productivity to be slightly above 3% consistent with our long-term targets.
We now anticipate that internal operating profit will be lower by 2% to 4% for the full year.
Although we will invest in brand building in 2012 as I mentioned earlier we brought our expectation for investment in brand building in Europe down from our original estimate.
We've also reduced our overhead costs across the businesses and anticipate that these actions will help offset some of the impact of lower sales growth.
We expect that interest expense will be slightly favorable in 2012 including the cost associated with Pringles debt partially offset by the benefit from the interest rate hedges.
We continue to expect that the full year tax rate will be approximately 30%.
As you can see we've also adjusted our guidance for reported earnings per share.
Specifically we now expect reported EPS will fall into a range between $3.18 and $3.30 per share.
The impact of currency is included as a headwind of approximately $0.04 unchanged from the estimate we provided last quarter.
You'll remember that we provided an earnings per share walk in our CAGNY presentation and while some of the puts and takes in the walk related to the Pringles acquisition might change over the course of the year our best estimate at the moment is that things haven't changed meaningfully except for the gain on interest rate hedges.
As John said earlier we've done a lot of work on the integration planning and we'll let you know on future calls when we alter our estimates.
We continue to expect that full year cash flow will be $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion including the revised earnings guidance and the benefit of the pending acquisition of Pringles.
Capital spending is still expected to be between 4% and 5% of sales.
And as we told you when we announced the acquisition of Pringles we expect to reduce our share repurchases significantly to allow us to pay down debt associated with the acquisition.
Finally we expect sales growth to improve in the second quarter but operating profit may decline more than it did in the first quarter due to commodity inflation timing of supply chain investments and reduced operating leverage as we reduce our inventory levels.
Both sales and profit should improve in the second half as commodity inflation subsides and we lap the increase in our back half supply chain investments in 2011.
And now let me turn it over to John.
Thanks Ron.
Slide 13 shows the internal revenue growth for Kellogg North America and Kellogg International in the first quarter.
Revenue growth in Kellogg North America was 2%.
Kellogg International posted 4% lower sales in the quarter primarily as a result of the weak results in Europe.
Now let's turn to Slide 14 and some details on our U.S.
business by segment.
As we highlighted in last year's 10-K we're now providing this additional data which will give you more insight into the business.
As you all saw in the measured channel data a majority of the U.S.
food industry faced weak volume performance in the first quarter.
While not all of our businesses were affected some were as you can see on the chart.
Slide 15 shows the performance of our U.S.
Morning Foods and Kashi segment.
You'll remember that we mentioned last quarter that we thought the cereal category would remain challenging throughout 2012 and that was the case in the first quarter.
The segment's internal net sales declined by 1.7% due mainly to the weak category volume performance in the U.S.
In fact measured channel data shows cereal category volume down approximately 7% in the quarter which is a significant hurdle.
Total category sales were flat to up slightly in all channels in Q1 and we lost a little share after gaining an equivalent amount in 2011.
So the category's relatively unchanged as is our share over the last couple of years.
Importantly we expect that consumers will better accept recent price increases over the next few months.
However it's also important to note that our all-channel performance improved progressively as we moved through the quarter.
Just as sales performance develops during the quarter we're expecting gradually increasing growth in the business throughout the remainder of the year given the actions we are taking and the programs and introductions we have planned.
Froot Loops and Frosted Flakes posted good results in the quarter as a result of strong support and Krave an innovation which was launched in the U.S.
at the end of last year is doing very well.
In fact in the latest measured channel data Krave is up to a 1 share.
Our Kashi business had a good quarter and gained share in both cereal and wholesome snacks.
Our GOLEAN Crisp! crumble cereal innovation exceeded expectations and the Bear Naked brand also helped drive the share performance.
In fact Kashi cereal sales increased at a mid-single-digit rate and Bear Naked cereal sales grew at a double-digit rate.
So while the business had a good quarter we expect continued growth in the balance of the year and have additional innovation planned to help us achieve these goals.
Slide 16 shows the performance of our U.S.
Snacks business in recent quarters.
In Q1 we saw a solid 2.3% growth due to excellent results in both the crackers and cookies businesses.
The cracker category increased by more than 3% in measured channels in the quarter and we gained share driven by good growth in Special K Cracker Chips and Cheez-It.
Cheez-It did well and was up high single digit in growth partially as a result of the introduction of a new mozzarella flavor and the popular vote for the top cheese program which allowed consumers to vote for their favorite flavor in an election year campaign.
Special K Cracker Chips continue to be a huge success and the 2 newest flavors Southwestern (sic) [Southwest] Ranch and Cheddar are doing well as are the existing flavors.
In cookies we saw a measured channel category growth of almost 5%.
We saw a 4% growth in our Keebler brand sales a focus for us over the last year.
In our wholesome snack business consumption declined at a mid-single-digit rate partially as a result of the timing of innovation.
However we have some great products planned for introduction in the second half including 2 SKUs of FiberPlus nutty delights and 2 new flavors of Special K Pastry Crisps brown sugar cinnamon and chocolate.
In addition we've got news on Rice Krispies Treats and a new campaign on Nutri-Grain.
As you can see on Slide 17 the U.S.
Specialty segment had a very good quarter as a result of increased focus innovation and improved execution.
We gained share in the Foodservice channel the largest in the segment and in the convenience channel as well.
And we increased our sales to all of our key customers some at a double-digit rate.
The segment's growth was driven by good innovation from Eggo Special K Cracker Chips and strong growth from Morningstar Farms and Gardenburger in our frozen veggie business in Foodservice.
And we also saw a growing revenue in snacking across the Specialty Channel driven by Cheez-It and Rice Krispies Treats.
Now let's turn to Slide 18 and the North America Other segment.
This segment includes our Canadian business and our frozen foods business.
Sales in the Canadian business decreased in the first quarter due mainly to difficult comparisons from 2011 given the timing of a cereal price increase last year.
However both the frozen and snack businesses gained share and we launched Special K Cracker Chips during the quarter.
It's early for Special K Cracker Chips shaping up to be a great launch in Canada.
The frozen foods business had another great quarter posting double-digit sales growth.
We continue to gain share in the frozen breakfast category.
In fact sales increased in all of our frozen categories.
Our Eggo Wafflers innovation has done well since its introduction in January and sales of our Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles continue to grow and the new pack sizes are being very well-received by consumers.
Finally from Morningstar Farms brand new veggie hotdogs and veggie meatballs also exceeded our initial expectations in the retail channel.
Now let's turn to Slide 19 and a discussion of Kellogg International.
As we have mentioned a few times already and as you can see the performance posted by our European business in the quarter was disappointing.
You all know that this business has been challenging for some time.
The weakness was due to a combination of the difficult economic environment in the region and some issues specific to Kellogg.
While we're not pleased with the sales performance in the quarter some of the issues are short term and we expect that we have seen the worst of the declines.
About half of the quarter's decline came from lower consumption due to elasticity.
The other half came from the timing of events and customer disputes on the continent.
These disputes are now behind us but the impact was meaningful.
There have also been some operational issues which we've worked hard to resolve.
We expect Q2 sales to be down as the price settles in with consumers and we expect that Q2's profit will decline at a rate similar to Q1's decline reflecting absorption and inflation.
However we do have some great products planned for introduction including All-Bran Golden Crunch Special K chocolate and strawberry cereals on the continent as well as Crunchy Nut cranberry and almond in cereal and Nutri-Grain breakfast biscuits and Special K biscuit moments in snacks in the U.K.
And finally we made significant changes to management in Europe.
We have a new lead in the U.K.
Many of you know Paul Norman the President of Kellogg International.
Paul is now the acting head of the European business devoting all his time to the business and he's working hard to improve the quality of our commercial plants.
The Latin American and Asia Pacific businesses are both reporting directly to me until things begin to improve in Europe.
We all recognize that it will take some time to implement meaningful changes but we know that in Paul's capable hands the situation will improve.
Our Asia Pacific business posted a sales growth of 2% in the quarter.
The Australian business posted a low single-digit decrease in internal sales.
Most of the other areas in the region posted sales growth.
The Australian market continues to be difficult as both the cereal and snacks categories posted declines.
However we did launch Be Natural and All-Bran innovations in the first quarter both of which have exceeded our expectations.
And we have more innovation and additional commercial programs planned for the second half that we expect to drive improved sales growth.
Elsewhere in the region we saw very good rates of growth in South Korea Southeast Asia and India.
We faced a customer issue in the region which is now behind us.
We launched some good innovation in the first quarter including Nutri-Grain cereal.
We've also just launched Corn Flakes hot porridge which provides us with an entry into a segment that is already popular in South Africa.
Our Latin American business posted 7% sales growth.
We benefited from a successful Star Wars promotion and excellent innovation including Special K Fruit and Yogurt.
We also successfully relaunched All-Bran in Mexico with a simplified portfolio.
And we have more All-Bran and Special K innovation planned for introduction around midyear.
As a result of this activity we expect continued strong performance from the region over the balance of the year.
Now let's turn to Slide 20 and the summary.
Obviously we're unhappy with the results we posted in the first quarter and we never want to lower guidance but we need to run the business for the long term.
While we do expect gradual improvement in our performance as the year progresses we want to have the flexibility to make continued investment in future growth.
Our revised guidance enables us to invest in the long-term health of the business.
Brand building and innovation are the core of our operating principles and we realize that periods of weak demand are the ones that provide us the greatest opportunity to increase our efforts.
We are committed to our long-term model and the principles that built the company and that's why we're so excited about the acquisition of Pringles.
Pringles is a brand in which we can invest and the combination gives us added confidence that we'll meet our long-term goals.
I'm excited by the opportunities available to this great company and know we're doing the right things to strengthen our base increase our potential and drive growth in the years to come.
I'd like to take the opportunity also to thank the dedication of our 30 000 Kellogg employees globally.
Their hard work can clearly make the difference for our company.
With that I'd like to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first questioner in queue is Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask of -- actually I guess a two-pronged question.
Firstly around the change in segmentation in the U.S.
what was the thinking behind that? Because obviously you've stuck with the same segmentation for I guess quite a long time now.
And then specifically within the U.S.
cereal business what do you -- can you break out what the internal growth was there in terms of volume and pricing and what you're seeing in terms of category growth and share trends there? Let me take the first part of that Alexia.
Our intent in providing the additional segmentation in North America is to provide information on how we view the business and how we manage the performance of the business as well.
So we've broken out the North America position as a result of that.
Alexia if you look within the cereal category we have within measured data around a 6% 7% decline in Kellogg volume in the first quarter.
So as you expect that's coming through quite strongly in our reported results as well.
In terms of the share progression what we've seen in cereal in the first quarter is we lost about 30 basis points of share -- of value share in the measured channels and we estimate that's probably close to the 50 basis points when you look at all channels so including the non-measured channels which was similar to the amount of share that we gained last year.
So our share is essentially flat if you go back 2 years.
I think we are seeing better performance in the non-measured channels compared to the measured channels and we do believe that there is some shifting going on between those channels.
So our volume is down in the Morning Foods and Kashi segment and it's down sort of similar levels to what you see in the measured channel data or they're slightly better than them.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a view as to what's driving that cereal weakness in terms of volumes in the U.S.? I think we're seeing a higher level of elasticity to pricing than we expected to see in the U.S.
It's higher than we saw in the first quarter of last year and we're seeing a similar dynamic in the U.K.
In terms of our business our business declined in the first period in line with our expectations.
But that elasticity has been in the marketplace for longer and at a greater rate over the quarter than we anticipated.
The next questioner in queue is David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> John I wanted to ask you about the Europe and the U.K.
You obviously mentioned that that has been a bit of a problem area for a while.
I wanted to get from you perhaps a rough breakdown of the deterioration that you saw in the quarter.
How much of it was the customer-specific issue you mentioned the operational issue you mentioned? And maybe you can elaborate on what that was.
And then how much of it of course is a macro deterioration that we as analysts should be paying attention to not just for you but for the group? It's a great question David.
When we look at Europe clearly it's a very difficult economic environment.
That's playing a little bit into our results but I think the real issue here is Kellogg-specific.
We've got some issues in our business which is -- the good news is we have the ability to fix that and get back on track in Europe.
If we look in the first quarter our sales are down around 10%.
About half of that is due to consumption.
Some combination within that half is due to the customer disputes as well as higher-than-expected elasticity.
And then the other half of the decline in net sales in Europe in the first quarter was due to the customer disputes impacting trade inventory levels and the timing of events.
For example our innovation on the continent was pushed from the first quarter to the second quarter because of some of those customer disputes.
As I look at the U.K.
most of our issues in the U.K.
come down to 2 core brands: Special K and Crunchy Nut.
On both of those brands we have new campaigns coming out in the middle of the year and new innovation on both brands as well.
So I believe we are taking the right steps to improve the performance in the U.K.
I believe that's in our control to do that.
On the continent we actually saw if you go back to 2011 better results in the first half of the year and then the continent was starting to soften in the back half of last year and that softness is continuing into the front half of this year.
I'm a little concerned there that the economic environment is weighing a little bit more on our business.
The opportunity on the continent is really around Special K again and we have a very exciting program in the back half of the year on that particular brand.
So I feel good that we're making the right decisions in Europe and making progress.
Research Division</strong> One separate one.
I think Ron mentioned the brand-building investments are going to be down in Europe this year.
Is that perhaps saving your powder for the Pringles business on-boarding and an increase that could happen in 2013? I mean -- well perhaps you could elaborate on that a little bit.
We've been disappointed on the return on the investment of our European brand-building so we have pulled back a little bit here in the first half because we didn't feel like the programs were strong enough.
The back half program is still largely intact and we have some exciting ideas to put that money behind.
If you look at Europe in totality we actually spent a little bit more on brand building in Europe than we do as a company average.
So I still think we have plenty of money available and investment available to drive the business.
I think the key to us driving our European business in the future is to ramp up the rate of innovation.
If I go back to 2010 we only launched about $40 million of new sales from innovation.
2011 $60 million.
2012 we have a stretch goal to launch $100 million of new products from innovation that are coming here later in the year.
The next questioner in queue is Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John in the 10-K as you noted you started to break out some of the individual components of North America.
And my question I guess is on the margin in the U.S.
Morning Foods segment.
It was about 20% a few years back and has moved lower every year and I guess now is more in the  16% 17% range.
I understand the higher input cost environment and I think you mentioned some of the timing of supply chain investments but I guess I was hoping you can provide a bit more color on this.
I guess that level just strikes me as low given my perception of the healthy sort of profitability of cereal for you and as a category which is obviously such a key part of this segment.
And I guess as part of that do you see this more recent level as more representative of a -- sort of a structural level? Or should 20% be achievable again here in the not-too-distant future? Andrew if you look at our 10-K our margin on morning foods and Kashi that segment we disclosed was around 18%.
I think it's important to note that that segment wears the brand-building investment for all of the product lines it houses.
So cereal Pop-Tarts.
It has about a 2 to 3 point drag on operating margin.
So clearly the underlying margin is a bit stronger than what you see in the 10-K.
We feel very good about the margin in our morning foods and Kashi operating segment.
There are no structural reasons why we can't continue to work and improve that margin.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Do you think it kind of gets allocated a disproportionate amount of sort of the...
Brand building yes.
Andrew it keeps all the brand building in the U.S.
business for those cereal brands even though some of the sales might occur in other businesses such as specialty and even snacks to a degree that it leverages the Special K brand.
To your point of the margin we believe that we can improve the margins in morning foods Kashi over time.
That is more of a "low-single-digit sales growth"-type business and that obviously we'd hope to drive that profitability faster in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate it.
And then just one quick one on pricing.
I guess I had modeled for whatever reason although I thought pricing overall at the corporate level would be maybe something similar to what you saw in the fourth quarter or a bit higher.
And it came down sequentially.
So I didn't know if there was some change to what you were doing from a pricing standpoint or if it's just simply starting to lap some of the pricing from last year.
I'm trying to get a better handle on that and how that moves going forward.
Yes we'd be lapping a bit of the pricing given the timing of our price execution in 2011 Andrew.
So there's nothing that we've done that would structurally impact that pricing.
We obviously took pricing before we entered the year in that business.
The next questioner in queue is Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess I have 2 questions.
One is getting back to the U.K.
and EU problems.
I think in past quarters you've mentioned the competitive challenges in snacks with General Mills and Nature Valley and Kraft with their Belvita product.
Yet you didn't say anything about that.
Can you talk about the competitive landscape? And why isn't that factoring into the weakness? Eric on snacks you're right.
There have been 2 new entrants into the snacks category both General Mills and Kraft.
That has adversely impacted our business.
It is down in the first quarter.
It's not a huge driver of the European decline.
I think our issues in Europe are more cereal-based in the first quarter but snacks continues to be an area of opportunity for us and we have strong innovation coming out the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess as a -- the follow-up would be on what should give investors confidence and shareholders confidence that the company with a number of challenges seemingly kind of whipsawing things from quarter-to-quarter -- why should we have confidence John that Pringles is going to go kind of as planned? I mean I realize Australia has been an area of retailer disputes but I don't remember hearing from other companies that they've had retailer disputes in the -- in Europe.
And yet you're about to acquire a business that's got a significant portion of business around the world.
Why should we have confidence that this is going to go okay? All right let me talk about Pringles.
And we remain very excited about Pringles.
We think it gives us a great new platform for growth.
It helps us with our international scale in several markets.
And we believe it really helps us unlock the snack opportunity in International that the company has managed to achieve in the U.S.
So we think Pringles is a great opportunity.
We have a set of integration teams working between P&amp;G and Kellogg to bring Pringles on board.
There's a tremendous set of individuals coming with that business that we think will help us as a company going forward.
And the plans that those -- that the Pringles team has are exciting for the next couple of years.
So we think there's tremendous opportunity.
Obviously with any integration particularly a carve-out it's a complex process because we have to take it from being supported by P&amp;G's IT systems and support functions to Kellogg.
That's why we have teams working on this and we're spending a lot of time and effort making sure this goes seamlessly.
On the broader issues Eric I recognize that there's been more volatility in the last year or 2 in our business.
I think that reflects what has happened to us over a longer period of time.
So if you go back to 2001 through 2009 the company had tremendous momentum.
Our sustainable growth model was working.
We were reinvesting back in the business growing our front foot.
And bad things were happening to us.
We were able to resolve them and just keep moving.
2010 '11 we had the supply chain issues in our business.
We invested back a significant amount of money capital time operating expense resources and that took away our momentum as a company.
We're working to rebuild the momentum.
We saw some good top line momentum in 2011.
We're off to a disappointing start in 2012.
I believe the first quarter is more of an anomaly but we're providing pragmatic guidance for the year of 2% to 3% top line growth and I believe we're making the right decisions for the long term to get ourselves back on track.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow-up on that so what should we read into these retailer disputes? I mean is it the retailer power in kicking you while you're down? Like are they taking the opportunity to pick a company that's lost its momentum and trying to gain things? Or because again I don't remember hearing from other companies so many retailer disputes.
Eric I think that taking pricing in continental Europe is probably the most difficult part of the world to take pricing in.
In a commodity-inflationary environment we need to take that pricing to protect the long-term economics of our business.
And that can be -- that can lead to very difficult discussions loss of promotional activity.
And it is the nature of the business.
It's hard to predict when or how long those things will occur.
It happened to us here in the first quarter of this year.
Next questioner in queue is Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the decision to lower production in your plants I think that's what you said in order to reduce inventory? I understand the move but how should we think about and perhaps model the impact on your fixed cost leverage from this decision? Yes it's -- you can expect over the next couple of quarters that we'll see some adverse impact flowing through our cost of goods sold as a result.
So when we came to the first quarter as a result of sales being a bit softer than expected we ended up with higher inventory levels as I said.
So over the next couple of quarters we'll see an adverse impact from reduced operating leverage by pulling production levels down and pulling our inventories down.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Is there any way for us to kind of quantify that? Or is it too early to tell? Yes too early to -- I wouldn't say too early necessarily but to quantify it I believe would not be appropriate at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then one other question but this will be -- you're not the only company but this will be the sixth year out of 7 that your gross margins are supposed to go down.
I appreciate we're in a very difficult long-term cost environment but how should you and how should we think about your gross margin long-term going forward right? Is there an opportunity for Kellogg to start growing this line again if inflation flattens out? Or is there something more structural that I guess will lead to some softness maybe some declines going forward again on a long-term basis even if commodities become less volatile? And I'm thinking excluding Pringles here.
I know that throws a wrench in the machine a little bit.
Ken I think there's no structural reason why we can't grow our gross margin.
So we can absolutely grow our gross margin in the future.
Our long-term metrics are for sales growth of around 3% to 4%.
We think we can grow gross profit dollars faster than that.
That means you're going to get gross margin expansion and then we put back in the brand-building investment and drive mid-single-digit operating profit growth.
So structurally we can do it.
We have struggled in the last few years with hyper-commodity inflationary environment and with having to invest back in our supply chain.
But we did this for many years across the 2000s and we believe with the right economic environment we can do it again.
The next questioner in queue is David Driscoll with Citi Investment.
This is Cornell Burnette on the line with a question for David.
I just wanted to focus back on Europe here and it seems that many of the issues that really negatively impacted the first quarter look like they're set to abate at least when we get to the second half of the year.
In other words I think you'll be lapping a lot of the pricing that you took last year.
You should have easier comps as you mentioned on the continent and then overall you seem to have much more of your innovation weighted towards the second half.
So with that in mind is it possible that second half volumes in Europe can stabilize? Or are there still some issues that may prevent you from doing that? I'd rather not get into volume projections at a segment level but I think your basic thesis is right.
I think we're going to have -- continue to have some pressure in Q2 for it takes time to turn these businesses around.
But we do expect better performance in the back half.
And I think to say we could stabilize Europe in the back half that would certainly be our goal.
Next questioner in queue is Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig in a little more -- the exact way about how costs are going to flow through this year.
Because clearly it seems to me that spot costs have fallen fairly precipitously and you're just reporting your quarter here where gross profits are sort of flat on what looks like 4.4% pricing.
So I know we're lapping a little bit of pricing and I know you certainly want to -- have some investment needs but can you just walk us through how you're going to time investment needs with what presumably has to be a pretty big impact if we're even able to hold flat pricing out from these cost declines versus where they're coming through on the income statement right now? Sure Jonathan.
Well let me take the cost piece first.
So we've talked about cost inflation of approximately 7%.
And we're seeing probably 0.5 points to 1 point more in the front half of the year and 0.5 points to a 1 point less in the back half of the year.
So we are seeing more commodity inflation in the front half and that's because of the positions that we take over the course of a year related to commodity hedging.
In terms of our investment structure I suspect you're referring to brand-building investment.
You'll see that start to ramp up a little bit in the second quarter but more towards the back end -- back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe if I could get just one follow-up Ron.
So you're talking say 0.5% down from there.
So let's call it 5 -- plus 5% year-over-year expected cost.
I mean how far do you guys usually hedge out? Because if I look at corn or wheat or any of the big inputs and maybe something you're buying that I don't know about but it seems to me like it indicates they're all down pretty measurably on a year-over-year basis.
At some point that would have to flow through even this year and -- unless it's your practice to hedge out 12 months or more.
We hedge out generally not more than 12 months.
So it really is more a factor of lapping our positions that we took for the front half of 2011 Jonathan.
Research Division</strong> Oh I see.
So you hedged advantageously last...
That's correct.
The next questioner in queue is Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to a couple of questions before take a step kind of off I guess to like almost 30 000 feet.
Just if I looked at the industry views and it's not just Kellogg that volumes pretty much have been declining for a while now kind of coincidental with the financial crisis but almost like you're -- do you think your consumer is changing? And kind of the traditional playbook that's behind these brands innovate and things will be okay -- do you think the playbook is a little bit changing and we need to do something a little bit more radical to follow our consumer? I'd like your take on that please.
Well I think there's a couple of things that have been weighing on our volume over the last few years.
One is high level of commodity inflation which has required an abnormally high level of inflation -- of pricing I should say.
And that's obviously adversely impacted us from a volume perspective.
In addition if you go back to 2009 2010 we had meaningfully lower innovation levels as a company which are going to start to ramp up in 2011 and 2012.
That's also weighed on our volume performance as well.
I believe if you go forward here at the end of the day if you provide great products to consumers you engage them through outstanding advertising you'll absolutely bring those consumers into your portfolio and we can drive volume growth as a company.
If we can get to a normal inflationary cycle so we're taking a normal level of pricing I believe we can generate that 3% to 4% sales growth from a combination of volume price and mix.
I recognize the volume performance has been below where we want it to be for the last few years.
I don't believe there's a change in the structural nature of the business or a change in fundamental consumer behavior.
I think it just reflects the dynamic that we've been going through over the last 3 or 4 years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
I mean one observation I'd make is some places in the consumer [indiscernible] vertical including home vertical where actually it's growing pretty rapidly including volume.
Second question I just want to make sure I understood what's going on in North America specifically.
Did you say it was the cadence in the quarter on the volume was improving? Or was it -- or wasn't and I wasn't sure I caught that.
My [indiscernible] breaking up at that point.
That's my last questions.
Maybe the -- you can see within the measured channel data that the volume consumption on our business was improving as we went through the first quarter.
So I think talking about that one segment specifically our volume was doing well.
I think we are generally seeing the volume trends improving in the business as we go through the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you see that happening through the year and it -- in the measured channel it happened overall in the business as it happened.
And then the second question would be what's the degree here? Are we really ramping up? And could we break even? Or is that just not going to happen? I think if you look at our full year guidance this year we have around 2% to 3% sales growth which implies volume is going to be down 1% or 2% on the year.
So we're not expecting volume to bounce back but nor are we expecting 3% to 4% volume declines for the year.
The next questioner in queue is Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you John in relation to some of the volume weakness that you're seeing and I just obviously heard your answer and your discussion on the call about improving through the year and maybe some elasticity but is there a need in the short run to be a little more promotional in certain businesses be it in the U.S.
or I guess to a larger degree in Europe to try and stabilize volume versus pricing to get that piece of business improved? Chris we have looked at the performance of our first quarter business and have looked at where we've had some more price elasticity than we expected and we've tweaked our plans as you'd expect us to do.
I don't think that's going to substantially change our price realization as a company.
I think it's just us reacting to the environment in which we're operating and ensuring that the right pressure against the brands that are suffering a little bit more.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a bit of a follow-on to an earlier question.
I guess if -- from the comments you've made on the call today I don't think I'm still clear on where you have to invest.
Obviously Europe and the U.S.
but it sounds like in Europe you're actually not getting the return on the investment dollar.
So am I just misunderstanding the way you're looking at that? But how is the investment -- where is the investment going this year I guess to benefit your revenue growth? Our intention is to grow brand building at or above the rate of sales growth.
So it is some investment but I wouldn't suggest that it's a massive level of investment.
That investment can go into a number of places.
We're very excited about our growth potential in Latin America in Asia expanding out some of the emerging market businesses.
So I'm not sure you should look to -- for us to invest behind where we might be having some issues so much as invest behind where we think our future growth can come from.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay do you still have that new product goal of around $900 million? Is that still a good number to use for new product opportunities this year? We are still tracking to $900 million of launches this year.
The next questioner in queue is Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> I just have 2 quick questions.
Are you -- I guess the first question is could you provide or will you provide and do you expect to provide in the future just the volume price breakout that you've always done per geography segment? Or is that -- should we not expect that going forward? Yes we will make commentary within our Q when it comes out on the drivers of sales performance Rob.
So take a look at the Q and that should provide you with more information.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then the other more housekeeping question was just on -- I didn't hear anyone mention this I don't think.
It was just the -- it looked like it was about a $40-million benefit in net expense the other income and interest expense year-over-year which winds up being about $0.08 or so $0.08 or $0.09.
And I didn't -- I don't think you talked about it in the prepared remarks.
So could you just add a little color unless I've completely missed something as to why there is a $13-million benefit in other income? Be happy to.
First of all and probably the most significant item is we get about $0.05 of benefit associated with interest rate hedges we placed in association with the Pringles debt that we intend to take.
So that's the biggest factor.
We did have some other discrete benefits in the first quarter as well in other income and expense.
It's important to note also though that if you look at tax for example we're lapping some discrete benefits in tax for the first quarter.
So if I look at other income expense and tax wrap all those together we're relatively neutral.
The $0.05 of benefit from the interest rate hedges is really the key benefit below the line.
LLC</strong> Okay so then all of that $0.05 is below the line.
There's nothing that would be inclusive within COGS that I should...
That is correct.
Yes.
The next questioner in queue is Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the health of the Kashi brand? I just noticed that in your innovation I haven't seen much at least on the grain snacks or cereal side.
You're doing more in frozen.
But this used to be a real growth driver of the company.
Has that leveled off? And then maybe talk about Special K also.
Is that making up for some of the difference? Kashi as we discussed before had a difficult time during the deep element of the recession.
The good news is in the first quarter we actually saw very good growth from Kashi.
It was up mid-single-digits and Bear Naked was up double digits.
So the whole natural adult-oriented cereal segment we think is well positioned for long-term growth and we're excited about that business.
There is some new innovation there on cereal and on wholesome snacks and we believe we can continue to grow that business over time.
So we feel good there.
On Special K I think one element of our weakness in the first quarter was actually Special K.
We had a very good New Year's resolution program as a company.
However within that New Year's resolution event we did a multi-category event.
We saw a very good lift on Special K Cracker Chips and so on but we didn't feature cereal quite essentially in that program this year as we have in the past.
And so our Special K cereal didn't do quite as well.
And so that did weigh a little bit on our first quarter results.
Our final question for today will be Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So if we assume that the revised guidance entails -- potentially entails a change or a haircut to what you may have initially planned for incentive compensation for 2012 how should we think about the risk that if the business then performs to plan in 2013 this could create a headwind similar to but maybe not at the same magnitude of what you faced in 2011? Yes that's a great question Matthew.
We have a pay-for-performance culture as a company.
And clearly my bonus is not looking that good for 2012.
Having said that a large number of businesses are doing quite well: Latin America Asia frozen specialty Kashi elements of the snack business.
So we're not expecting anything like the 2010 2011 dynamic where the bonus program was cut in 2010 and caused an issue for 2011.
So nothing like that is expected for this year next year.
And again that does conclude our time for questions.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay everybody thanks very much for joining us.
We'll be available obviously throughout the rest of the day and the days to come.
We look forward to talking to you then.
Thanks again.
Thank you sir.
Again ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Attendees you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Karen.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for a review of our second quarter 2012 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant our President and CEO; Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer; and Todd Penegor President of our U.S.
Snacks business.
As we move from being a global cereal company to being a global cereal and snacks company our intention is to highlight different business units periodically.
Todd's here to discuss our U.S.
Snacks business in more detail.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website www.kelloggcompany.com.
And as you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
So for further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday August 6.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And with that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and good morning everyone.
We're pleased that the results we announced this morning are in line with our expectations and the guidance we gave last quarter.
In fact total internal revenue growth for the quarter was in the middle of the 2% to 3% range we expect for the full year and represented an improvement from the results we posted in the first quarter.
Importantly we saw improvement in overall revenue trends in both the North American and international businesses with the North American business posting both good revenue and operating profit growth.
So we do feel much better about this performance and some of the traction we've achieved from actions taken in recent months.
I'll speak more about this later.
The operating profit results also improved in the second quarter although less dramatically than sales.
As we told you last quarter we expected that Europe's profit would decline at about the same rate in the second quarter as it did in the first quarter.
This turned out to be the case.
As you know economic conditions in Europe continue to be difficult but we're optimistic that we've begun to take the right actions across the region and that we will see further improvement.
So we have additional visibility because of the results we posted in the second quarter and we are maintaining our outlook for the full year across the P&amp;L.
We're actively executing the strategy we outlined to you earlier this year.
We are a global cereal and a U.S.
snack company.
We're building a global snack business and the addition of Pringles is an important part of that.
So let me talk a bit more about Pringles and Slide 4.
The integration is progressing well.
Just as a reminder this was a carve-out not a straight acquisition and was far more complicated as a result.
So we're pleased that the transition is going so smoothly.
Our Pringles team and the existing Kellogg teams are working very well together and we anticipate that we will be able to discontinue our transition services with Procter &amp; Gamble on schedule.
We now have improved visibility into both the company's operations and the annual synergies that we expect to realize.
We remain very comfortable that ongoing annual synergies will be in the $50 million to $75 million range we discussed with you previously.
And finally we're seeing good sales early in the third quarter and are starting to leverage Pringles through cross display and marketing activities.
It is also important to note that our customers around the world have a lot of confidence in the brand and just like us are optimistic regarding its potential.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ron.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
If you will turn to Slide 5 you will see our quarterly and year-to-date financial summary.
We posted reported revenue growth of 2.6% in the quarter and internal sales excluding the impact of Pringles divestitures and foreign exchange increased by 2.3%.
And that's on top of a very strong 6% internal growth in the second quarter of last year.
Year-to-date internal revenue growth was 1.1% driven by the improved trends we saw in both North America and Europe in the second quarter.
Internal operating profit decreased by 5% in the quarter against a difficult comparison of 8% last year.
The timing of our planned investment in supply chain lowered overall operating profit by 5 points.
So operating profit would have been flat without this impact.
You’ll remember that our investment in 2012 will be at the same level as in 2011.
However shape is different given that last year's investment was skewed much more to the back half.
Also as John mentioned Europe results contributed to the decline as did continued high commodity costs.
Reported earnings per share were $0.84 in the second quarter in line with our expectations including $0.07 of transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Pringles.
We also saw below-the-line favorability of $0.02 per share which I'll talk about in more detail later.
Slide 6 shows the details of second quarter sales growth.
Reported sales increased by 2.6% and internal sales increased by 2.3%.
While volumes declined by 0.6 points we continued to see favorable results in price and mix at almost 3 points.
Importantly sales increased in the quarter across all 3 categories: cereal snacks and our other category which is primarily Frozen Foods and some Specialty Channels business.
Pringles added 3.5 points to overall reported sales growth as a result of the sales we picked up in June.
And finally currency decreased overall growth by 3 points.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 7.
We'll look at our gross profit performance.
Gross profit was $1.4 billion in the second quarter and gross margin declined by 190 basis points.
Commodity costs increased in the quarter but productivity savings and pricing helped offset the impact.
The key drivers of the margin decline were the timing of investment in our supply chain and lower production as we reduced levels of inventory.
These 2 items accounted for more than half the decline we saw in gross margin.
And the addition of the Pringles business also reduced our reported gross margin.
As we've said in the past however we intend to improve the margins at Pringles over time.
It's worth noting that gross profit dollars would have been flat if we exclude the timing for the supply chain investments.
Finally as you are aware some commodity prices have increased significantly over the past couple of months due to weather conditions.
We are now essentially fully covered on food and packaging inputs for the year and we have included the impact of recent inflation in our outlook for the year.
Slide 8 shows details of our investment in brand building over the last 18 months.
Investment was lower in the quarter although this was the result of comparisons to strong investment the first half of last year which supported our innovation and marketing programs.
This year we have a lot of activity planned in the second half to support commercial activities and innovation.
In addition we are a proud sponsor of the Olympics.
So you can appreciate that our investment will be skewed to the second half of the year.
As you know investment in brand building is one of the cornerstones of our operating principles.
We're committed to this investment which includes effective programs and more efficient spending specifically through increased use of digital media.
Importantly even including these efficiencies we still expect to increase brand building for the whole company at a rate equal to or greater than sales growth for the full year.
Slide 9 shows the internal operating performance for each of the regions.
Total company internal operating profit decreased by 5% in the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier the year-over-year impact of our investment in supply chain accounted for all of the decline.
As a reminder we stepped up our investment in supply chain by $100 million last year and held this investment in 2012.
We're getting a good return from this investment and our supply chain is stabilized.
So while the timing of the investment has been a significant headwind in the first half of the year it will be a tailwind in the second half.
North America's internal operating profit increased by more than 3% in the quarter.
This was due to strong sales growth including volume price and mix improvements.
It's also worth noting that we achieved this growth despite the headwind from the timing of the supply chain investments I mentioned earlier.
As we expected Europe's internal operating profit declined by 20% in the quarter.
Half of this decline was the result of lower production to reduce inventory levels.
The remainder was due to lower sales and consumer pressures across the region.
Europe has been a very difficult operating environment for us.
Internal operating profit in Latin America decreased by approximately 15% in the second quarter.
While sales growth was strong operating profit declined due to a one-time benefit from an asset sale last year and a very strong double-digit increase in brand building in the quarter this year.
In fact these 2 items accounted for all of the decline in operating profit.
And finally internal operating profit in Asia Pacific decreased by almost 32% although this was only $8 million.
This was primarily the result of a continued difficult operating environment in Australia including reductions in retailer inventories.
However we did see very early signs of improvement in the category and in our performance in Australia late in the quarter.
Now let's turn to Slide 10 and a discussion of cash flow.
Year-to-date cash flow was approximately $525 million an increase of more than $120 million versus last year.
As we said in the first quarter this includes much of the working capital benefit we expected from Pringles and we remain focused on managing working capital and made progress in reducing our inventories during the second quarter.
Year-to-date capital spending was $155 million or 2.2% of sales.
Full year capital spending is still expected to be in the range of 4% to 5% of sales but it is more second half weighted and includes investment in Pringles.
And we purchased no shares during the quarter.
As we have said we intend to pay down debt to strengthen our balance sheet.
Slide 11 shows details of our full year guidance for 2012.
As we've said previously internal sales and operating profit exclude the impact of Pringles but our earnings per share guidance includes the expected accretion and one-time costs related to the acquisition.
So as you can see on the chart we've maintained our guidance for the year.
As a result we continue to expect internal net sales growth to be between 2% and 3%.
This includes the impact of good price and mix growth partially offset by decline in volume.
We also expect that reported gross margin will be down more than 100 basis points for the year including the impact of a lower margin structure for Pringles.
Internal gross margin will decline less than 100 basis points consistent with our previous expectations.
Our expectations for total cost of goods inflation including commodity inflation remain at approximately 7%.
And again we continue to expect that our supply chain will deliver good productivity savings of slightly greater than 3% in line with our long-term expectations.
Our estimate is that full year internal operating profit will be lower by 2% to 4% including the increase in investment in brand building equal to or greater than sales growth.
And our guidance for earnings per share remains consistent although some of the puts and takes have changed.
Let's turn to Slide 12 to discuss changes to some of the components of our guidance.
Remember that last quarter we had a one-time $0.05 benefit from transaction-related hedging.
This quarter we had a couple of one-time items also including that benefit reversing itself that combined to a $0.02 negative impact.
But this was more than offset by a lower tax rate that added approximately $0.04 of benefit.
So we netted a positive $0.02 impact from these one-time items in the quarter.
All of these items are related to the Pringles acquisition.
As a result of the tax benefit this quarter we now expect our full year effective tax rate to be approximately 29%.
Expectations for currency translation got $0.02 worse and now stand at approximately $0.06 of negative impact for the year.
We've outlined all of this information on this slide.
So as a result our estimate for full year earnings per share remains in the $3.18 to $3.30 range.
This includes a net $0.07 to $0.10 headwind of one-time items and the $0.06 headwind from currency.
And cash flow is still expected to be in the $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range.
Finally you can see from the full year guidance that we're expecting continued improvement and much better results in the second half of the year.
This should be a gradual improvement though as we progress through the remainder of the year.
And with that I'll turn it back to John.
Thanks Ron.
Slide 13 shows the internal revenue growth posted by Kellogg North America and Kellogg International in the quarter.
Both results represent a significant improvement from their performance in the first quarter.
Revenue growth in North America was 4%.
That was declined by 1% in our International business mostly due to the results we expected in Europe.
Slide 14 shows the U.S.
business broken out by segment.
As you can see each of the segments posted growth in the quarter.
U.S.
Morning Foods and Kashi posted growth of 1.2%.
Cereal sales and share declined slightly as we were lapping a double-digit sales growth at almost 1.5 of share gains in the second quarter of last year.
So the performance was good considering that we proactively chose to lower incremental spending during the period and we've all seen that we posted good share growth in more recent data.
The contribution from innovation has also been good with Krave cereal continuing to do very well at 1 share point.
The Pop-Tarts business had a great quarter posting a strong sales growth and we had a very favorable response to the reintroduction of the Crazy Good advertising campaign.
And the Kashi business posted good sales growth including the Bear Naked brand which contributed -- which continued to post very strong growth as a result of innovation and increased levels of distribution.
U.S.
Specialty segment posted internal revenue growth of 6.3%.
This was a result of strong innovation particularly Special K Cracker Chips which are off to a great start in these channels.
Also we saw double-digit growth and good share performance in the Convenience channel and increased sales of Frozen Foods.
The North America Other segment which is comprised of the Frozen Food and Canadian businesses also had a great quarter.
Frozen Foods had another strong quarter posting high single-digit revenue growth off a difficult comparison.
In fact our Frozen Foods business is the fastest-growing large Frozen Foods business in the U.S.
over the last 52-week period as measured by Nielsen.
The innovation we've launched is doing well in all the categories and Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles posted strong double-digit growth in their second year.
And we've got Special K flatbread breakfast sandwiches and vanilla Eggo waffles planned for introduction.
Veggie Foods is responding to activity that started late in the quarter and we're seeing strong growth in recent measured channel data.
And the Canadian business also posted strong revenue growth.
Innovations are doing well in Canada especially Special K Cracker Chips which are off to a very strong start.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 15 you'll see just some of the innovation that has either been launched this year or that will be launched in the second half.
The purpose of this is to give you some idea of the magnitude of the activity and look at some of the great new products that we've launched.
Remember that corporate-wide we've launched approximately $600 million of innovation in 2010.
This grew to approximately $800 million in 2011 and are on course to introduced innovation of $900 million in 2012.
That's sort of activity but we know that this is essential to our future growth.
Now I'm pleased to introduce Todd Penegor the President of our U.S.
Snacks business.
As Simon said at the beginning of the call we intend to highlight one business on these calls from time to time.
Given the acquisition of Pringles and the importance of snacks to our plans for future growth we want to take this opportunity to have Todd talk more about our single largest business unit U.S.
Snacks.
Thanks John.
First of all let's take a look at Slide 17 and a discussion of the Snacks business performance in the second quarter.
As you can see we posted very good internal sales growth of 4.1% and this was building on strong mid-single-digit growth in the second quarter of last year.
The cracker category increased at a mid-single-digit rate in all channel data and we increased category share.
As in previous quarters both Cheez-It and Special K crackers did very well in the quarter and we're very excited about the introduction of Special K popcorn chips in August.
These new SKUs will build on the current Special K franchise and we're confident this off-cycle innovation will continue to drive our business.
The cookie business posted low single-digit growth on good performance from the focus on the core Keebler brands.
Fudge Shoppe Chips Deluxe and Sandies all did well and in combination posted sales growth that exceeded the low-single-digit category growth.
Our wholesome snack business also had a very good quarter.
Sales of Special K bars Nutri-Grain bars and Rice Krispies Treats all grew in the quarter.
You'll remember that our wholesome snack innovation for the year is much more skewed to the second half of the year and we're starting to see some of the benefit already.
Although it's early Special K Pastry Crisps are off to a good start and FiberPlus Nutty Delights are now being activated.
Slide 19 shows the scale of and our share in the 4 main categories in which we compete in the U.S.
As you can see these are big categories which add almost $20 billion a year in sales and they're growing too.
So although we're strong #2 in wholesome snack and cracker categories and a more distant #2 in cookies and savory snacks we see a lot of potential in all these businesses.
This means that we have to embrace our position and act as a hungry #2.
And it also means that we have to drive our execution and innovation that much harder and we have.
We've done a very good job with both over the years.
I'll talk about some of these initiatives in a little more detail in a few minutes.
So as I mentioned our categories have been growing more than 4% a year and I'd like to think that the hard work we put in by the entire team has meant that Kellogg has helped drive part of this growth.
A big part of our success is due to the strength of our brands.
And if you turn to Slide 21 you'll see some detail regarding one of the most important of those brands.
Cheez-It has been a multiyear success story for us.
We've had some great close-in innovation over the years and have worked hard to keep the brand fresh.
The purchase rate on Cheez-It is among the highest of our large brands and you can see on the chart the impressive growth posted as a result over the last 15 years.
In fact this brand increased sales every year over this 15-year period and the compound annual growth rate was more than 9% which is really impressive.
Recently Cheez-It scored highly in a study of popular savory snack brands.
This survey focused on a broad array of benefits and product attributes valued by consumers and included some of the largest savory snack brands in the country.
Cheez-It is a cracker and is sold in the cracker aisle.
However consumers think of it as a savory snack and they consume it like one.
We have integrated our consumer programs with our sales efforts to really drive incremental sales and build the brand.
The successful Choose Your Cheese program is one example that ran over the last couple of years and we've also got sales partnerships with Coke and MillerCoors which we're very excited about and that will provide even more opportunities in the future.
And so as a result of these activities we have some very passionate consumers who have driven this to be one of the largest brands in the company with almost 3.5 million Facebook fans.
Finally though I would like to say that we don't think we've tapped anywhere near all the potential of this brand despite the past growth you see on the chart.
In fact we expect that sticking to our plan will bring many more years of success.
Now let's turn to Slide 22 and a discussion of another important brand for us Special K which has helped to drive our wholesome snack and cracker businesses.
The Special K brand in Snacks has benefited from strong innovation and we've seen increased household penetration and very passionate consumers.
As a result we posted strong growth in each of the last few years and you can see it all adds to a compound annual growth rate over the period of more than 22% which is great.
In fact the growth has been accelerated over the last couple of years by the introduction of Special K Cracker Chips which have increased the brand's reach.
And the introduction was one of our most successful in the category.
The 2 SKUs we launched this year have done well on top of a strong base set last year.
It is on trend highly relevant proposition and brand and it's successfully traveling to businesses outside of the U.S.
as well.
Kellogg Canada and Kellogg Mexico have both launched this product and have also seen great results.
Importantly we're confident that Special K Popcorn Chips and Pastry Crisps both of which are being introduced in the second half of 2012 with strong support will help keep this business growing.
Slide 23 shows some detail regarding the Keebler cookie brand which is one of our strongest.
The Keebler brand the Keebler Elves and the Hollow Tree are all loved by consumers.
Last year we decided to focus our efforts on the broader Keebler brand and primarily Fudge Shoppe Chips De and Sandies.
And as you can see from the chart the results have been dramatic.
It's important to note that the Keebler brand accounts for $1 billion of sales across the cookie and cracker categories.
We changed a lot of things as a part of this refocus: Advertising pricing packaging marketing partnerships social media activities and we even rethought our in-store activation.
And we're pleased with the performance in the latest 52-week period.
As you can see the core sub-brands under Keebler have posted strong growth a big change from prior periods.
And as with Cheez-It and Special K we've got increasingly passionate consumers more activity and good innovation planned all of which should help us maintain our solid momentum.
And now you'll turn to Slide 24.
The final brand I'd like to highlight today is of course Pringles.
In U.S.
Snacks we're really excited about the opportunities that Pringles brings.
This is a big iconic brand and is one that allows us to leverage our strengths: brand building innovation and strong in-store execution.
It also provides us with access to another aisle in the store.
As John has mentioned previously the business has been a little constrained on capacity.
But we're doing a lot of work on this as an organization.
This means that as we progress we should be able to focus on driving sales growth particularly through the introduction of innovation and additional merchandising leveraging our in-store presence.
The introduction of Pringles with more flavor has helped accelerate the growth of this brand.
This was a simple idea but it's one that highlights the opportunities we have to drive this business.
We've also got a lot of really great brand-building ideas and we've got savory snack brands that complement each other.
So as you might imagine we're already co-promotions with Pringles and Cheez-It.
We see a lot more potential to do this kind of thing as we look across the portfolio.
Slide 26 shows some detail on the success of our innovation that I referenced earlier.
As you can see we've done a great job driving innovation in our largest categories in both absolute terms and versus the competition.
It's also important to note that this is a 3-year rolling innovation which highlights the longer-term success of some of these ideas.
We've increased the amount of innovation we've launched measured in dollars consistently over the last few years.
So we're very proud of this track record and I believe that we have the processes and ideas in place to continue this success into the future.
One final note on innovation.
We recently have been recognized by both Nielsen and IRI for some of the successful innovations we've launched.
Specifically these are awards for our Town House Flipsides Special K Cracker Chips and Special K Pastry Crisps products.
Now let's turn to Slide 27 and the final element of our growth strategy the DSD delivery network which is one of the largest in the country.
Let's look at some of the impressive statistics on the page.
As you can imagine visiting each store more than 4 times a week on average puts us in regular contact with both our customers and consumers.
The number of visits also helps us manage the shelf and minimize out-of-stocks.
And we can't wait to build on our in-store presence to drive even more display for our Pringles business.
So in conclusion on Slide 28 I'd just like to say that we're very motivated by the opportunities we have in the U.S.
Snacks business here at Kellogg.
There is great potential in all the categories in which we compete.
These categories are growing and we're benefiting from this.
We have the right brands.
Cheez-It Special K Keebler and now Pringles are all great brands and we've got the opportunity to accelerate their performance as we focus integrate and expand our efforts.
We've got a great innovation plan and as importantly a well-run process that's been very successful.
And we've executed well in-store and will continue to do so.
We are very optimistic regarding our future in Snacks and we're very excited to welcome the U.S.
Pringles employees to the Snacks family.
And finally I'd like to thank all the employees of the Snacks business for their hard work.
Together they've built a great organization and they should all be very proud.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Todd.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 29 you'll see some detail regarding our International businesses.
Sales performance posted by our European business in the second quarter was better than we saw in the first quarter.
The U.K.
business also declined much less than it did in Q1 as some of our commercial plans and pricing actions started to gain traction.
We have new Special K and Crunchy Nut advertising on-air.
We have launched new Special K Biscuit Moments and Nutri-Grain Breakfast Biscuits are going into the market.
This is a growing category and we see potential in this great new product.
More broadly we've got new ads on the air for most of our major brands and we've relaunched Special K in both Italy and Spain like we did last year in Mexico where we saw very good sales growth as a result.
We feel better about the second half because of all this activity and because of other innovations we have planned.
However as you've heard from other companies the continent continues to be a challenge given the economic environment.
Southern Europe in particular is difficult and we are taking action in the region and we're watching developments closely.
Quarterly net sales results in Asia Pacific were impacted by lower retail inventories and a difficult competitive environment in Australia as retailers decreased their inventories around their fiscal year end.
Australia is a developed market and has issues similar to other developed markets.
However the third quarter is off to a better start and we have stronger activity planned for the second half.
In addition we saw good growth in Southeast Asia China and India and we expect better growth across the region in the second half of the year as we have more activity planned including a significant amount of brand building.
Sales in Latin America increased by almost 7% as a result of strong pricing and double-digit growth in certain countries.
We increased brand building at a double-digit rate in Q2 and are also planning for a double-digit increase across the balance of the year.
So we expect continued good revenue growth in Latin America this year because of this investment and because of innovations such as Special K Crisps and Special K Cracker Chips which are similar to the ones you are familiar with in the U.S.
Like in other places around the world this launch is off to a very strong start.
In conclusion I'd like to say that we have increased visibility into our International business for the balance of the year.
We're taking actions across the regions some of them significant and we're starting to see improvement.
We remain very focused and we are excited about the opportunities we see in the second half of the year and into 2013.
Now let's turn to Slide 30 and the summary.
We're pleased that our second quarter performance improved from the first quarter of the year.
The North American business posted internal growth in both sales and operating profit.
We've done a lot of work in these businesses and we're encouraged by the improvement.
And we're excited about the prospects for the second half.
The International business also posted improved performance as some of the actions that we have taken have started to make a difference.
We expect that this activity will drive performance that continues to improve as we progress through the second half.
And because of this we have additional visibility into our outlook for the year.
We plan to continue investing in our model because we know that it is the right way to run our business.
Investment in our brands and strong innovation are what drives our results and we're excited about both what we have planned for the remainder of this year and the longer-term prospects for the business.
We compete in great categories and we have new strong growth opportunities in our Pringles business.
Finally I'd just like to thank Kellogg's employees for all their hard work.
I'd also like to welcome the new employees coming to the family as a result of the Pringles acquisition.
And with that I'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Greg Hessler from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> As you guys ended the quarter I think you had like $750 million in short-term debt and you've got a couple of notes that are maturing in the next 12 months.
So I was wondering how do you plan to address those? I know you're focused on using near-term free cash flow to reduce debt but might we see you back in the corporate bond market in the next couple months or in the back half of the year? Yes Greg.
This is Ron.
It is possible that we'll be back in the market.
We'll obviously look at all of our options here including a CP as well as longer-term debt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in conjunction with the debt reduction is there a particular balance that you're targeting by year end? We haven't communicated a specific balance that we're targeting by year end.
What we have said is that we like our BBB+ credit-rating and we're working to maintain that rating by paying down our debt and strengthening our balance sheet.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Europe it sounds like you're feeling confident about the progress you're making there.
Can you help illuminate some of the issues? So just give us a little more detail of exactly what the challenges have been there.
Well I think as we said back on the first quarter call we've been disappointed by our start in Europe.
I think to your point Jason we are seeing much better progress in the second quarter and our second quarter results were in line with our expectations -- the expectations we gave you coming out of that first quarter call.
We have seen improvement in the U.K.
and France.
Having said that Southern Europe particularly Spain and Italy have been a bit softer than we would like and that just reflects the tough environment in that part of the world.
To give you a sense of some of the actions that we've taken in the U.K.
we have new cereal innovation coming out with line extensions on All-Bran Crunchy Nut and Krave.
In the U.K.
we have Special K Biscuit Moments launching in June.
And in Spain and Italy we're actually relaunching Special K which is our biggest brand there similar to what we did in Latin America last year where we saw a very good response from that program.
And across the region we have new proven copy behind major brands and we've improved some price points in some critical brands in some major markets.
So I think we are making some good progress and it's coming through in a better result in Q2 than Q1.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just a housekeeping item.
On your guidance bridge here you've got it looks like a net $0.02 benefit from one-time costs.
And I know FX is an offset.
But just on a currency neutral basis if we were to exclude the one-timers is it right that you're lowering sort of the constant currency pro forma guidance by $0.02? And if so where exactly is that coming from? We're not necessarily lowering the constant currency guidance.
Our base or core EPS remains exactly the same.
We've got $0.02 of headwind of currency.
Research Division</strong> But you have $0.02 of a net tailwind from one-time costs is that right? That weren't included in the guidance before? Yes.
Yes we do.
That's right Jason.
Excuse me it's Simon.
Those 2 things offset each other so...
Yes.
We're still at a $3.18 to $3.30.
Research Division</strong> But if FX hadn't changed -- okay I'll follow up offline.
If FX hadn't changed then the rates would have gone up.
Yes.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know if you can give us a little more color on how Pringles is doing.
We can see the data in the U.S.
but not so clearly in Europe and this is a heavily European business.
Are they having the same kind of geographic kind of slowdown in Southern Europe and can you help us quantify what it looks like? And then secondly can you give us an update on how you're thinking about that combination of integrating Pringles in Europe and also I think kind of restructuring your headquarter platform in Europe? And I think a lot of people are concerned that this is a lot to take on at this time when Europe in general is having recessionary conditions.
Let me say a few comments first about Pringles in general and then Europe and then maybe have Todd say a few things about what's happening in Pringles here in the United States.
The integration is going very well with Pringles very smoothly.
We have good visibility into the synergies.
We're having good pickup with Pringles employees now becoming Kellogg employees.
And I think actually the company's done an excellent job of executing a very difficult integration with the carve-out and moving forward.
And as you say we are seeing some good response here in the near term in the U.S and I'll have Todd talk about that in a minute.
In terms of Europe the Pringles business is doing well in Europe.
We do have more of an emerging market platform for that business than say the Kellogg company would have.
But we're continuing to see progress in that business.
More broadly as you said we are undergoing a major set of changes in our European business.
We are organizing ourselves for the future.
That means we are looking at the best way to set ourselves up.
The beauty of the Pringles acquisition is it creates a snacking capability to add to our International business.
It helps transform our International business from largely a cereal business to a cereal and snacks business.
The Pringles acquisition or integration within Europe Pringles will continue to be in Geneva so there's not a big dislocation there.
There is an opportunity though for us to look at how we best organize Europe given that we have cereal in Dublin and Pringles in Geneva.
Asia Pacific we'll also have Pringles in Singapore and seeing very good progress of that integration as well.
And it's a relatively small business in Latin America.
So early days in Europe.
A lot going on.
But we think Pringles actually is an important part of the strategy to help drive the future growth of our European business.
And so we feel we're absolutely taking the right long-term actions.
Todd you want to talk a little bit about the U.S.
channels? And in the U.S.
it's -- the integration is also going very smooth.
We haven't skipped a beat.
Period 6 came in on expectations and we're off to a solid start here in Period 7.
Really excited about the opportunity to leverage our in-store presence to drive even bigger partnerships and in-store displays.
And we're securing the right talent to ensure our success going forward.
So feel very very good at the moment.
Research Division</strong> And John just 37% of Pringles sales are in Western Europe.
Are those -- is that business down? Coming into the year Pringles had a strategy in some parts of Western Europe to reduce their reliance on some of those markets.
And some of those markets are down; others are up.
So it's a bit of a mixed story across the continent.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple of questions I guess.
First just more specific you're looking at the tax rate I guess as included in the guidance a large part of that is due to Pringles.
But shouldn't Pringles help the overall tax rate long term? And should we then therefore take some comfort in the fact that you're including this benefit in the second quarter as maybe a longer-term benefit to the company? Pringles will benefit our tax rate over the longer term based on the tax-efficient structures that are in place Eric.
What we recognized in the second quarter was a one-time benefit associated with the liability that we adjusted in relation to International earnings.
We previously expected we might repatriate those International earnings.
Now as a result of a debt that we have overseas we'll use that cash to pay down the debt.
So we made this one-time adjustment to that liability and picked up $0.04 of earnings per share benefit.
Research Division</strong> So is -- again just on the one-time items the $0.07 to $0.10 that you originally -- well you updated in this -- after the first quarter results that -- the $0.07 to $0.10 that includes the I guess net $0.03 hedging gain but that also includes a $0.04 tax benefit and then the initial one-time items that you had put out at CAGNY? That's exactly right Eric.
So it's got the integration costs embedded which are a headwind.
It's got the benefit of this -- it's a transactional foreign exchange item of $0.03.
And then it's got $0.04 of benefit related to tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just last question.
Just kind of maybe talking about John the cereal business in the U.S.
It looks like the category has still been a bit of a struggle.
Perhaps you can talk a little bit about that.
And as I go around there are still a lot of questions about the category versus other breakfast items or even versus pretty aggressive QSR movement into breakfast.
Perhaps an update there and then I'll pass it on.
We remain excited about the long- term potential of cereal in the U.S.
We see it as a low-single-digit growth category and in the second quarter it was flat to up 1%.
So at the lower end of the range that we'd like to be operating in but not that far out of that range.
And the reason we believe it has long-term potential obviously is the aging population health and wellness considerations and we know it's a category driven by brand building and innovation.
Within the cereal category in the second quarter we were down about 1% in the U.S.
but lapping a 13% growth last year.
And so our share did drop down about 50 basis points but we began lapping a 140-basis-point gain in the year-ago period.
And within the category we're actually seeing very stable base sales performance.
And where the category is losing a little bit of volume is on the incremental side.
I think that reflects some of the actions taken in the area of pricing through the year.
But I think longer term what's going to drive this category is going to be more innovation and more brand building.
And if you look across our back half plans we have a much heavier brand-building investment in the back half of the year and we have new innovation like Special K Protein coming out in the back half.
And if there's one thing we are seeing in general it's a little bit of protein seeking going on whether it be Greek yogurt or eggs or similar sort of items.
And so we believe that we can play into that even through cereal.
So we're comfortable with where the cereal business is.
It's improving as we go through the year.
We see a better back half and we believe it has good long-term growth prospects.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When you bought your grains for this year was that before or after the big corn spike? I'm asking because I think it's reasonable to assume it was before since your guidance for total cost inflation has remained constant even though corn and wheat and oats and so forth have jumped since you last provided an update.
And the reason I'm asking is not so much about 2012 but just kind of looking ahead to 2013 and seeing if we can reasonably expect a little bit of a commodity headwind at that point.
So for 2012 we did have some grains purchased or hedges in place.
We did see a little bit of exposure in the back part of the year but we've been able to manage that Ken and still stay within our guidance and total cost inflation expectations.
Research Division</strong> Is it reasonable for us to assume that commodities overall will still be somewhat of a headwind next year? We do expect inflation in 2013.
Keep in mind we buy $5 billion worth of commodity packaging and energy across our business.
The grains are a relatively small portion of that overall purchase.
But yes we do expect some inflation next year.
And our next question comes from the line of David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have a question separately on supply chain.
You mentioned something about supply chain being a little bit disproportionately high -- investments in supply chain being disproportionately high in the second quarter.
Can you give an update about how that's flowing through the year in terms of incremental spending on supply chain first half versus second half? And are you on track for that sort of I think it was $100 million of incremental spend? And then any specifics about what you're spending that on and what that's supposed to achieve would be great.
It's very consistent with what we've communicated before Dave.
And yes $100 million is still our expectation for spending in 2012 because we're lapping the investment we made primarily in the back half of last year.
We're seeing headwinds in the front half of this year.
And then we'll see a benefit in the back half of 2012.
Then David I'd like to say that the investments are having a tremendous payoff for us.
And I really do believe it was absolutely the right thing to do.
We've turned the corner with our supply chain.
We're having a much much better 2012.
And those investments will enable us to continue to drive our business forward to continue to grow the business over time.
So I really feel like we -- it's been absolutely the right thing and it's made tremendous progress in our supply chain.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way that you could illustrate with examples about what you mean when that -- improving your ability to execute in supply chain and what sort of increment -- any dollars in terms of what benefit that will provide? I think it has to do with just the stability of the supply chain and the overall performance of the supply chain.
If you went back over the last 3 to 4 years unfortunately we've had a number of events that have adversely affected our company.
As we went into the back half of last year we really took the business apart making sure we were getting down to the root causes understanding the issues and resolving them.
And as we've gone through this year we'd have a much much better performance out of our supply chain as a result.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on grain costs.
As we think about the impact of the recent increase in costs on discrete categories as we look forward to next year and specifically thinking about cereal as it stands today do you feel confident in your ability to cover the inflation outlook for next year through productivity? Or are we approaching the point where you think additional pricing might be required in cereal at some point during the next 6 to 12 months? Matthew we really cannot talk about prospective pricing.
I want to get back to what Ron said.
We buy a lot of different items of which grains are just one.
So we might have some inflation on that particular item but we have some other items that are not inflationary.
We as a company and as an industry are driving tremendous productivity to try to help offset our need to take pricing as much as possible and I'm sure that will continue to be the approach of the company and the industry in general.
So this is one more thing for us to manage our way through and we'll talk about our 2013 outlook at the end of the year.
And our next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on David's question on the supply chain.
Does turning the corner there give you the confidence that you can begin to manage down that spending in the out years? And then just a follow-up a separate housekeeping question.
Have you finished the inventory adjustment and can you maybe actually give the quarter ending inventory level for the base business excluding Pringles? Let me answer your question on the supply chain.
Our goal is to always be driving productivity to our supply chain.
We see that investment of $100 million as a permanent step-up in the base.
If we can do anything over time to reduce that spend obviously we will.
But we're looking at it in the context of running the total supply chain not as $100 million in isolation.
So our goal is to keep driving our productivity around 3% to 4%.
That's our long-term aspiration.
In terms of inventory Ron? Yes.
In terms of the inventory reductions we will still see some inventory coming out over the back half of the year.
So we'll have some adverse impact there.
In terms of getting into the exact inventory for Pringles and what our balance sheet is I'd rather not go into that level of detail.
And our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I have a detailed question and then I have a question for Todd.
The detailed question is just coming back to the guidance.
So I guess in a nutshell the tax rate that’s now 29% for the full year means your second half tax rate is what you anticipated it was going to be when you originally gave guidance earlier this year.
It's just part of those Pringles net cost and benefits included a tax element that we weren't counting on before.
Is that a fair characterization? That's exactly right.
That's right Jonathan.
That's exactly the way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> As a question for Todd you've had such success with the Snack program and I think yes even going back to the Keebler acquisition and look at how you've executed against innovations there.
What is the -- what were the costs and benefits be like why is the decision not being made to integrate Pringles into that DSD network? And is that something that's potential for the future? And what I'm -- I guess what are the aspects of that business versus the rest of your Snack business that make that the appropriate decision?  I mean could that change? Good question Jonathan.
We have a very efficient distribution model already in place for Pringles.
So the key is for us to continue to drive that efficiency to get it to the back of the store.
The opportunity then is how do we leverage all of our great in-store presence to drive incremental merchandising like bundling some of our bigger programs to make it even better.
And you’re already seeing examples of that right now with the back-to-school program.
And you saw the picture in the deck with the Pringles being integrated into our school bus program.
So we're getting it up on display and leveraging the in-store sales force.
Research Division</strong> Leveraging the in-store but not the actual delivery component is that right? That's right.
And we don't have an intention to actually change the way we get it to the back of the store.
Research Division</strong> Does that limit -- I mean let me ask it this way.
I mean what -- does that limit -- does Pringles have more points of distribution in North America right now or Keebler? I mean are you limiting Pringles distribution by doing that? Or is there -- is Pringles' footprint the same size and it's just there's no point in integrating the 2? A similar footprint.
I think the biggest opportunity that we see is Pringles acts a lot like Cheez-It when you look at lift-top display.
And what we want to do is just continue to drive the display element of it.
It's got a different shelf life so we've got more opportunity to grab inventory to pull from the back of the store and get it up into our bigger and better and integrated promotions going forward.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow from Bank of Montreal.
So what other key regions and products that you will expect to see the biggest relative change in the brand building? Because you said it's going to build.
Can you just talk about which regions and which products? And then secondly are you surprised given the significantly higher brand building that volume in Latin America kind of fell 1.5%? If you could touch on those 2 points that would be great.
Yes.
If you look at the brand building investment in the back half of the year it's going to go disproportionately against where we believe our longer-term growth is in the company.
So Asia Pacific and Latin America are going to receive more brand building in the back half of the year.
We have very exciting long-term growth plans there.
And then to your question on Latin America specifically I think we do have an opportunity to improve our volume performance in Latin America over time.
In the second quarter and even a little bit in the third quarter you will see some trade inventory coming out of the Latin American business as we work down those inventories that did have a little bit of an impact on the Q2 volume performance.
And which products within Asia and Latin America do you expect to be spending the most behind? Is it certain brands or product categories? Primarily cereal as well as probably starting to open up the brand building on Pringles over time as well.
I think one of our challenges or opportunities on Pringles is just to get additional capacity on line.
We have a lot of growth potential and as Todd said we have a very excited U.S.
Snack organization.
One of our challenges is to open up more capacity so we can drive that business even harder.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask a few questions John about the Pringles.
And just to understand the degree or the extent which you can sort reinvest back in that business now.
I think as I understand you have a pretty tight capacity for that business.
I think you've got to bring on some more capacity.
And then I also want to understand in relation to that again kind of the investments you can make back into the business to achieve revenue synergies whether it's selling the product in Mexico or it's selling more Kellogg products on the platform in Asia? It's a bit of a wide-range question but can you give a better sense of when you can start to expect heavier investment in Pringles? Well I think we do have an opportunity to drive revenue synergies in Pringles.
Day one as Todd mentioned in the U.S.
we are bolting on the Pringles to the in-store execution within our U.S.
business.
And so we're seeing some early response from that.
And to enable us to supply those initiatives we're going back [Audio Gap] our facilities and challenging the mix and challenging the opportunity to get more volume out of the current network.
Going forward though we need to add to that network and it's going to take us a year or so to get that capacity on line so we can really drive the business even harder.
And our final question comes from the line of Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about Latin America because it's clearly your main driver of growth internationally.
I know the focus has been on Mexico historically.
Your main competitor is about to close a pretty meaningful snacking acquisition in Brazil and I just wanted to ask about your strategy for Brazil.
Is Pringles going to give enough of a platform to start to roll out snacks products there? Or are there other alternatives that you will consider to get bigger in that market? Or is the focus going to continue to be Mexico? Alexia if you look forward over the next 10 years we'd like to see more balanced profile for Latin America.
We continue to have growth opportunities in Mexico but we believe we have even stronger growth opportunities in the Southern Cone and in Brazil in particular.
We are the category leader in Brazil and the category is growing strong double-digits as are we.
And we are actually investing more in Brazil this year.
In fact we will probably see more of that come through in the back half of the year.
And we also believe that Pringles represents a long-term opportunity in Brazil as well.
Okay everyone.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
We'll be available throughout the rest of the day and the rest of the week for follow-up questions.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'll turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2012 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant our President and CEO; Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer; and David Denholm President of our U.S.
Morning Foods business.
Intention is to highlight different business units periodically and David is here to discuss our U.S.
Cereal and Pop-Tarts businesses in a little more detail.
Also I just wanted to mention for those of you don't know they will be hosting a day of presentations for analysts and investors in Chicago on November 8.
Please contact us if you'd like to attend and haven't yet registered.
The press release and slides to support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggscompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg company's future performance including earnings per share sales profit cash flow brand building cost investments and the integration of Pringles are all forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday November 5.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
I know the recent storm has had an impact on many of you.
I hope that you and your families are safe.
Turning to our third quarter results.
We're pleased that our underlying performance in the third quarter was broadly in line with expectations and reflects continued progress.
Internal net sales growth was almost 3% the high end of our guidance for the full year.
As expected our top line growth has been improving sequentially as we've progressed through the year.
Consolidated internal operating profit would have also increased in the quarter were it not for the impact of the Mini-Wheats recall which I'll discuss in more detail in a minute.
And as with sales growth we've seen some sequential improvement in underlying operating profit during the year particularly in North America.
Underlying operating results in North America were very strong as we saw a significant improvement in the Cereal business.
We continue to see strong performance from Pop-Tarts Specialty Channels and the Frozen Foods business.
We also saw some additional improvement in the European business.
In the U.K.
we've seen benefits from better commercial programs and strong innovation.
As a consequence we've posted sales growth in both Cereal and Snacks in the quarter in the U.K.
As we've discussed before the Continental European business continues to be under pressure due to economic conditions where we've taken actions and have seen some early signs that they're having an effect.
Underlying sales growth was strong in both Asia Pacific and Latin America and as we mentioned on our last call we increased our investment in brand building to double-digit rate in both regions.
Now I'd like to address the Mini-Wheats recall of a few weeks ago.
Obviously we never want to have a recall.
But as you know these things do happen periodically in our industry.
We reacted quickly and effectively to the situation.
I remain confident that we have turned the corner in our supply chain over the last 2 years that we have proactively identified and addressed the challenges.
This places us in a much stronger position to avoid and mitigate these issues in the future.
Let's turn to Slide 4 in a brief update regarding Pringles.
As you know we have seen better operating performance from Pringles than we expected.
In fact Pringles in North America posted organic sales growth of 10% in the third quarter.
This a testament to the strength of the brand and the team that's running the business.
We're very pleased that we've been able to attract many of the Pringles employees to Kellogg.
They're excited to become part of a large food company and we're pleased to be gaining such energized and knowledgeable people.
And finally the integration continues to go well.
The teams running the integration are doing a great job.
They've executed well in North America and have already seen some benefit and we're currently in the middle of the  integration in Europe.
So we're excited about the potential of this iconic global brand and as you might imagine we'll give you more detail in next week's Investor Day.
And now let me turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial performance.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Slide 5 provides a summary of our quarterly and year-to-date financial results.
We posted reported revenue growth of 12.3% in the quarter and internal sales excluding the impact of Pringles divestitures and foreign exchange increased by 2.8%.
Reported operating profit increased by 3.2%.
Internal operating profit decreased by 4.9% in the third quarter.
This included investment in brand building that increased at a high single-digit rate.
It also included the impact of the recall.
Excluding that impact internal operating profit would have increased by approximately 1% so the recall is approximately a 6-point headwind to operating profit in the quarter.
Reported earnings per share were $0.82 in the third quarter up 2.5% and in line with our expectations but this includes $0.04 of integration costs so earnings per share excluding integration costs were $0.86 up 7.5%.
As we mentioned a few weeks ago good performance from Pringles and certain below-the-line items including lower-than-expected share dilution offset the $0.06 impact of the recall on EPS in the third quarter.
Now let's turn to Slide 6 and details of third quarter sales growth.
As I mentioned reported sales increased by 12.3% and internal net sales increased by 2.8%.
Volumes increased slightly in the quarter reflecting the improving trends we've seen as we progressed through the year particularly in North America.
We also continued to see both positive price and mix improvements which was up 2.7 points in the quarter.
As was the case last quarter we increased internal sales in the quarter globally across Cereal Snacks and our Specialty and Frozen businesses.
Pringles added more than 11 points to overall reported sales growth in the quarter and currency reduced overall growth by 1.6 points.
Slide 7 shows our gross profit performance.
Reported gross profit was $1.4 billion in the third quarter up nearly 7% but gross margin was lower by 190 basis points.
Gross margin was impacted by continued commodity inflation in the quarter.
In addition margin was reduced approximately 60 basis points by the recall.
Also we owned Pringles for the entirety of the third quarter and as you know Pringles has a lower gross margin than the company's average.
This had a dilutive effect on the company's gross margin of approximately 40 basis points.
Having said that we have developed and are already implementing initiatives to increase the Pringles margins over time.
Now let's look at Slide 8 and details of our investment in brand building.
As you can see on the chart investment increased significantly in the quarter.
Our plans were always for our investment to be weighted to the second half of the year and this has certainly turned out to be the case.
This activity has supported innovations launched since midyear various new commercial programs and activities such as the Olympics.
And as you can see on the chart we expect that investment in the fourth quarter will also be higher than during the fourth quarter of last year.
We continue to expect that investment in brand building for the year will increase at a rate equal to or greater than sales growth.
It is worth noting that we're planning this increase including the efficiencies we've been able to realize this year.
And of course we'll continue to develop plans for efficiencies next year as well.
Slide 9 shows the internal operating performance for each of the regions.
As I mentioned earlier internal operating profit for the total company decreased by 4.9% in the quarter.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 1.6% in the quarter.
While sales growth was strong the business increased its investment in brand building by 10%.
In addition commodity inflation had a significant impact as did the recall.
In fact without the recall North America's operating profit would have increased by more than 6%.
Europe's internal operating profit declined by 7.7% in the quarter.
This was the result of the difficult economic environment in the region.
However these results were broadly in line with our guidance and represent a significant sequential improvement from the first 2 quarters of the year.
While commodity inflation and a double-digit increase in investment in brand building had an impact on the quarter's operating profit in Latin America we also worked hard to reduce trade inventory levels in Mexico.
As a result of all 3 of these items Latin America's internal operating profit decreased by approximately 17% in the quarter.
Outside of Mexico the region posted double-digit operating profit growth.
Finally internal operating profit in Asia Pacific was 3% lower year-over-year.
While sales growth was strong the business also increased its investment in brand building at a double-digit rate.
We have improved commercial plans in Australia and has started to show in the third quarter's results.
Slide 10 shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Year-to-date cash flow was approximately $1.1 billion an increase of more than $236 million versus the comparable period last year.
Remember this year's amount includes the working capital benefit we got as a result of the Pringles' acquisition.
Year-to-date capital spending was $262 million or 2.5% of sales.
Our capital spending is more back-end weighted consistent with our investment profile in prior years and it does include investment in Pringles.
We invested at a rate greater than our long-term targets last year and we now expect to invest at a rate of approximately 4% of net sales this year or at the low end of our previous guidance range of 4% to 5% and at the high-end of our long-term range of 3% to 4%.
And consistent with our plan we didn't purchase any shares during the quarter.
Instead we have reduced our levels of debt by approximately $350 million.
Finally we still expect cash flow to be in the $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range for the full year.
While we are already at $1.1 billion the timing of our capital spending will impact the fourth quarter results.
Based upon our year-to-date performance and dependent upon timing of cash around year end we could be at the high-end of our range.
You can see on Slide 11 that our guidance for 2012 net sales and earnings per share remains unchanged but the recall had an impact on guidance for internal operating profit.
Internal sales and operating profit guidance continues to exclude the impact of Pringles.
Our earnings per share guidance includes the expected accretion and one-time costs related to the acquisition.
Our expectations for full year internal sales growth remain unchanged at 2% to 3% consistent with the improving trends we've seen.
Our estimates for cost inflation of 7% and cost savings of slightly greater than 3% are consistent with previous guidance.
Gross margin is expected to decline by a little more than 150 basis points.
Pringles will dilute gross margin by approximately 40 basis points and the recall has impacted full year gross margin by approximately 20 basis points.
So our estimate is that underlying gross margin will be down around 100 basis points.
Internal operating profit is now expected to be down by between 4% and 6% due to the cost of the recall.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $260 million including the cost of debt issued to acquire Pringles and we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 29%.
And as we told you a few weeks ago our estimate for reported earnings per share has not changed.
Better-than-expected performance in the Pringles business lower than planned share dilution and better-than-expected performance on some below-the-line items has allowed us to maintain our earnings per share guidance.
An earnings per share walk has been included in the slide appendix for your reference.
And finally we had intended to give you guidance for 2013 on the fourth quarter conference call scheduled for early February of next year.
However as we're holding our Investor Day in a week we'll give you a high level first look at next year's sales and earnings guidance at that time.
Obviously then we'll give you additional information on the fourth quarter call as we had always intended.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Ron.
Let's turn to Slide 12 which illustrates the internal revenue growth posted by Kellogg North America so far this year.
As you can see we have delivered good growth with the business posting 4% internal sales growth for the second consecutive quarter.
Now let's look at individual North American segments starting with U.S.
Snacks on Slide 13.
The business posted internal net sales growth of 0.3% in the quarter.
The Cracker category grew during the quarter as did our business.
It was building on strong sales growth in excess of 6% in the comparable period of last year.
And Special K Cracker Chips and Cheez-It both did well in the quarter.
We're also encouraged that the introduction of Special K Popcorn Chips appears to be going well and that sales seem to be mostly incremental.
Consumption in the Cookie category as a whole remained unchanged in the third quarter.
Our performance was impacted in part by the timing of our programs although the Keebler brand posted growth even off a 4.5% growth comparison last year.
We have more to be planned for the fourth quarter as well although we're lapping a difficult comp.
The wholesome snack business remains a focus for us and we have more activity planned for the months to come.
However of note in the quarter was a strong performance of Special K Pastry Crisps.
Consumption is strong and results thus far this year have exceeded expectations.
This is a product that we recently launched in the U.K.
under different branding and initial results are encouraging there too.
We're very pleased with the responsiveness of the Pringles business to our merchandising efforts.
As I mentioned before sales growth in North America was 10% in the third quarter.
Slide 14 shows the performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
This segment posted internal revenue growth of 5.5% in the third quarter.
This was a result of strong innovation introduced during the year including Special K Cracker Chips 2 new Rice Krispies Treats and new Eggo products.
The gains have been broad based with year-to-date sales increasing with all major customers.
In addition the Pringles business is also doing well in the Specialty Channels.
Sales have outpaced our expectations in these channels as we're gaining points of distribution.
Now let's turn to Slide 15 in the North America Other segment which posted sales growth of more than 5% in the quarter.
Within this segment Frozen Foods posted strong sales growth.
Both the frozen breakfast and Veggie Foods businesses did well.
As pictured on the Slide the recently launched Special K Flatbread Breakfast Sandwiches are off to a great start.
The frozen veggie business has responded well to the advertising we began at midyear and we have more activity planned for both businesses in the fourth quarter.
Also within this segment the Canadian business increased its share of the Cereal category by 0.5 points in the quarter driven by our new Krave cereal which has gained more than a share point in Canada.
Also we saw share gains in the Snack category.
And Special K Cracker Chips and special K Pastry Crisps are both doing very well.
Slide 16 shows the performance of the Morning Foods and Kashi segment over the past couple of years.
As you can see this segment posted very strong growth in the third quarter.
So now I'd like to hand it over to David Denholm the Head of our U.S.
Morning Foods segment for a more detailed discussion of this business.
Thanks John.
Now let's turn to Slide 18 and our quarterly performance.
As you can see the Morning Foods and Kashi segment posted strong growth in the third quarter after a weaker-than-expected start to the year.
The Cereal category responds to brand building innovation and nutrition.
And we've seen the benefit of our actions as we've progressed through the year.
For Cereal the volume declines that we experienced early in the year in response to previous price increases certainly had the most significant impact in the first 2 quarters although obviously the situation has improved sequentially as pricing moderated as we've moved through the year.
Slide 19 shows the shipments and market share performance of our Cereal business.
The business posted growth of almost 6% driven by innovation a strong increase in the level of brand building and a relatively easier shipment comp.
So while our inventories are in good shape this year and are in line with average levels the year ago comp helped shipment growth exceed consumption in the quarter.
The Slide also shows our xAOC category share performance in the Cereal category in the 12-week period ended 1 October.
As you can see our Cereal business posted category share gains of 0.3 points building on good gains in the comparable period of last year and we continue to post share gains in early October behind increased investment in brand building.
Slide 20 outlines some highlights from the quarter and how well our business responds to brand building the execution of big events and innovation.
We increased investment in brand building at a double digit rate in the quarter with strong support behind key brands such as Frosted Flakes Mini-Wheats and Special K.
We also continue to increase the level of investments in Hispanic-oriented advertising and we are seeing an increasingly positive response.
We had a successful back-to-school promotion with Scholastic to provide free books to school children.
The execution of our Olympic program was fully integrated across the path to purchase which included a heavy digital component and a PR program that delivered approximately 1 billion impressions.
In fact it was the largest PR program in the history of the Kellogg company.
Our cereal innovation strategy involves having the right level of pressure each year while working to improve the stickiness of our launches.
During Q3 we saw the benefit of this as our innovation continued to build momentum.
Turning to Slide 21 you'll see that our share of innovation is now 50% of the category with the next biggest competitor at 35%.
Our innovation has been performing well this year and Krave which we introduced in January continues to hold almost a share point of the category.
That represents a strong start for just 2 SKUs and shows that both trial and repeat have been strong since introduction.
In addition we relaunched Special K Protein at midyear to appeal to those consumers looking for increased protein in their diet.
Although it's early we are pleased with the results so far as this innovation has also been well received and trial rates have been strong.
And we have a strong lineup of introductions planned for 2013 including Special K Chocolate Strawberry Cinnamon Jack's Mini-Wheats Crunch and Scooby Doo.
Kashi innovation will focus on expanding the brands all-family offerings with the launch of Berry Fruitful.
2 SKUs of Bear Naked Fit will also be launched.
The Morning Foods business unit also includes the Pop-Tarts brand which has annual sales of more than $0.5 billion.
Slide 22 highlights the 30 years of continuous growth posted by Pop-Tarts.
This truly is an iconic brand with good economics supported by strong execution.
Slide 23 shows the quarterly performance of the Pop-Tarts business.
And as you can see the business also had a very good quarter posting sales growth of more than 6% and increasing share by 0.5 point.
This gain was driven by strong retail execution brand building behind the Crazy Good advertising campaign and programs such as the summer concert tour.
Slide 24 highlights our 84% share of the Toaster Pastry category.
Our winning formula for this brand is simple.
We have breakthrough advertising including social media we drive strong innovation and we ensure that we win in-store every day.
Our next big innovation is 2 SKUs of oatmeal delights which will be launched nationally in January.
We drive a lot of retail activation via seasonal events such as our recently launched college football branded Pop-Tarts which were a big success.
And as you can imagine we also have strong demand for our pumpkin pie flavor during the fall season.
So our Pop-Tarts business is in great shape and we have good visibility into our future growth.
Now let's turn to Slide 25 for a summary.
We're excited about the long-term potential of our business.
We have excellent share positions in the categories in which we compete.
We have increased our focus on health and wellness and we have brands that play naturally in those areas such as Special K and Kashi.
And we have a number of iconic brands that consumers love and that respond to both brand building and the introduction of innovation 2 of our strengths.
And finally we have a great team.
They've done a lot of work this year and I'd like to thank them for all the effort and dedication.
So we're optimistic about the future and the great potential of our brands and our businesses.
And with that I would like to turn it back over to John.
Thanks David.
Now let's turn to Slide 26 and the performance of our international businesses so far this year.
As you can see after a difficult start to the year primarily in Europe the International business has posted progressive improvement as it moved through the year.
As we told you last quarter we've done a lot of work in Europe to improve the business and strengthen our organization and we're investing for future growth in both Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 27 you'll see some more detail regarding our International businesses.
The European business continued to improve sequentially in the third quarter.
The U.K.
business posted sales growth in both Cereal and Snacks as a result of much better commercial plans tactical pricing actions on some SKUs and improved innovation.
Special K Biscuit Moments Nutri-Grain Breakfast Biscuits and Special K Cracker Crisps have been launched in the U.K.
and all are off to a good start.
On the continent sales in France increased and we saw early signs of improvement from the relaunch of Special K in Italy and Spain.
However as you've heard from other manufacturers Southern Europe continues to be a difficult environment and we know it will take some time to improve.
So due to this we remain cautious on Europe as we look into 2013.
The Latin American business posted growth of 4% in the quarter.
As we said previously we have worked aggressively to lower trade inventories in Mexico in the quarter which led to lower shipments although consumption in Mexico increased in the quarter.
A part of this difference affects timing between the third and fourth quarters.
In addition the other businesses in the region are performing strongly and posted double-digit sales growth.
We increased Latin America's investment in brand building at a double-digit rate in the third quarter.
And we've also launched Special K Cracker Chips and Special K Crisps in the region as well as Choco Krispies Pops and Special K Chocolate in certain geographies and all are doing well.
The Asia Pacific business had a strong quarter posting 7% sales growth.
And as we mentioned we increased brand building during the quarter at a double-digit rate.
The Australian business improved as new advertising started to have an impact and innovation on All-Bran Be Natural and Sultana Bran all contributed to growth.
Also in the region India and South Africa performed well as a result of innovation and continued penetration gains.
Now let's turn to Slide 28 and the summary.
Sales growth continued to improve in the third quarter as we expected and was in line with our expectations for the full year.
North America posted strong top-line growth as the Cereal Pop-Tarts Frozen Foods and Specialty channel businesses all did well.
Underlying profit growth adjusted for the recall was also strong.
Europe remains a difficult environment but we have seen some early signs of improvement.
For example the U.K.
performed much better as a result of improved commercial plans and innovation.
We increased our investment in our brands at a high single digit rate in the third quarter and the Asia Pacific and Latin American businesses increased their investment in brand building at a double digit rate.
We saw a better performance than we expected from the Pringles business.
All in all it was a good quarter and I'd like to thank all our employees for their efforts around the world.
With that I'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Baumgartner Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thinking about your JV with Wilmar there wasn't anything in the press release and the PowerPoint here.
Wondering if you can touch on your thought process in building the relationship? What are your expectations there? What are some of the opportunities Wilmar affords anything Navigable didn't? And what might the lingering headwinds still be in China distribution even with Wilmar? Thank you John.
We're excited about the Wilmar joint venture and we'll actually talk more about that next week at Day at K.
But the reason we're so excited about Wilmar it is roughly the third largest consumer goods company in China.
It has a tremendous infrastructure across that market and they're very excited as are we in the potential growth of the category in China.
The category today the Cereal category is relatively small but it is growing rapidly at strong double-digit rate.
And so we believe that together we're better positioned to unlock that opportunity.
If you go back to the Navigable business that was a low-margin cookie business in China that was not really helping us build out our infrastructure or really set ourselves up for the future.
So we're excited about China both from a Cereal perspective as well as a Snacks perspective and we believe that Wilmar is extremely well positioned to help us make that a reality.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A question on Pringles.
So you gave original accretion guidance back when you closed the deal but since then you've had a chance to do the purchase price allocation.
And according to the best estimates that we can make amortization expense looks like it's going to be a lot lower.
And then as you mentioned in your prepared script John the sales growth also looks to be much better than anything you would've expected on day 1.
So can you update us on the accretion expectation in '12 and in '13 from the Pringles deal? David this is Ron.
I'd be happy to give you an update on the expectation for 2012.
We haven't provided 2013 details yet.
But we've moved the accretion expectations from $0.08 to $0.10 which is what we communicated before to $0.11 to $0.13 so -- and we've got about $0.03 better.
We are seeing stronger sales performance than we previously expected.
And in addition we're seeing better performance come through our supply chain.
We've been able to improve throughputs in our supply chain and done some other things that have improved our cost structure.
In terms of the amortization and the balance sheet valuations frankly David we're still working through that.
So you may see a low level of amortization expense come through for now but we're still working through that as we go through the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question.
It's just on upfront costs.
I think your original guidance was for upfront charges to be approximately the same as last year.
But as of the third quarter and year-to-date results you're running behind last year.
Are you going to get a big -- a fairly big upfront number in the fourth quarter? We are David.
So as we look at the fourth quarter we'll certainly have more upfront costs and better than the fourth quarter than we did last year.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And it's flat the total number is flat year-on-year? Still investing at similar levels.
It could be in the range of $0.10 to $0.12 consistent with prior years.
Our next question comes from Scott Mushkin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to understand a little bit of the difference between what's going on with the Mini-Wheats recall and some of the issues you saw over the last couple of years.
That'll be my first question.
Thanks Scott.
I think we've made some great progress in our supply chain over the last few years.
We've made significant investments as we mentioned last year adding people back into the facilities improving certain core processes within the facilities and we're seeing a much better performance out of our supply chain.
We are very disappointed by this latest event.
It was a failure in a piece of equipment.
We've been using that sort of equipment for 20 years in this facility and it's the first time we've seen a failure like this.
But I think our recent investments have enabled us to identify the issue quickly to respond to it and I think the company did a great job of very effectively and efficiently dealing with the situation.
We have -- Alistair Hirst is our Head of Supply Chain who will be talking about some of the great progress we've made at Day at K next week.
But we do believe that we have definitely made progress in the supply chain.
I think this is a unique issue that we had more recently and I believe the investments we've made will help us mitigate and reduce the probability of these sorts of events in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you don't think it's part of a systemic issue? You think it's more of a little bit of maybe a bad luck with a piece of equipment not maybe -- that maintenance wasn't done on there or anything like that? You think it's more a little bit of a bad luck situation? Yes I think it's really unfortunate.
Clearly Our goal is to avoid these things happening in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then my second question really goes to the brand building.
This is 2-part.
I wondered if you could kind of delve into how those funds the extra funds are being spent number one.
And then number two is I'm playing a little bit of a devil's advocate.
It seems like clearly you're turning the tide on sales although it seems to be costing you a lot of money in North America that you also see in some other markets.
When did that period of extra investment or maybe more of a flow through to the bottom line? So kind of a two-part question then I'll yield.
I think if you look at brand building and what we're doing this year we're investing our brand building in the areas where we're expecting future growth.
So we're investing behind Asia Pacific and Latin America and you saw the double-digit increases in brand building in the third quarter.
And you'll see a continued investment in those regions.
A part of our long-term model is to increase brand building at or above the rate of sales growth and we're going to do that this year and we expect to do that in the future.
At the same time we're always looking to drive efficiency.
We've seen a big move towards digital.
We're saving money on nonworking cost within the advertising line.
So we have a series of efficiency programs there as well but at our heart we are a branded food business.
We believe it's what enables us to succeed.
It's part of our sustainable growth model and I would expect us to continue to invest in brand building in the future.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions on the phasing of costs and sort of how that plays into results during the second half of the year.
I guess in recent quarters you've given a sense of how the phasing of supply chain spending was impacting year-on-year operating profit growth and I know the level of investment in the third quarter of 2011 was particularly high.
I was just wondering how much the flighting of that spend impacted this quarter's results.
And then just with respect to the $0.06 per share recall impact sort of in compensating for those expenses during the quarter was there any degree of sort of shifting innovation planned brand building spend from 3Q into 4Q? Let me take the phasing of the supply chain cost first.
We did invest more in the back half of last year.
We are lapping that impact this year and we did see that benefit come through.
Having said that as we communicated on the second quarter call we are seeing higher commodity costs over the back half of the year.
So we're seeing more commodity inflation and that's had an impact on our inflation not just in the third quarter but it will in the fourth quarter as well.
We still do expect our input inflation to be at the rate of 7%.
It might be a little bit above that.
In terms of the impact of the recall and any R&amp;D investment associated with that that had no impact whatsoever.
And just to build on that remember the recall occurred in early October.
It was actually a subsequent event to the quarter itself.
So our actual spend and everything was in place.
We were in the process of closing the quarter when the event occurred.
Our next question comes from Jon Feeney with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> Ron I wanted to ask about the phasing of cost more specifically as we look through the next year.
If costs stay where they are right now and I understand they've increased recently do you -- how much would you expect -- do you expect to -- the need to take new pricing in the marketplace in North America at some point in the next 6 months given where costs are today? John as you know we don't comment on perspective price increases.
We have said in the past that we expect an inflationary environment in 2013.
We haven't yet discussed the phasing.
One thing I would say though is at this point in time you'd expect us to be taking hedge positions and we are in a hedge position very similar to where we were at this time last year which is about 40% to 50% hedged.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was very impressed at the share of innovation that you've talked about on your slide presentation.
Looking forward into next year I mean do you -- does that affect pricing plans at all that you took significant innovation? How does that typically work? Is that -- in this case SKU pricing higher or lower do you think particularly in the Cereal -- ready-to-eat Cereal business the past few months? I think innovation at a very macro level is a driver more of volume than any pricing decisions that are out there.
So we expect next year to have even more innovation at a total company level than what we had this year and innovation's clearly a core driver of our success.
Just building on John's comment and talking specifically about Cereal we have good visibility into our innovation pipeline.
We have strong ideas and we're looking forward to executing a stronger plan next year.
And in general I'd say that the innovation drives positive mix and in fact in this quarter we saw a positive mix coming out of innovation.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ron I've got a couple of questions kind of following up on Dave Driscoll's because I'm not sure that we got full kind of Pringles impact.
So I see on Slide 32 in the appendix that you took the Pringles accretion up $0.03.
But your free cash flow generation is better than you thought and you said you paid down some debt.
So the impact of that plus less dilution on the share base wouldn't that make all in Pringles actually more accretive than what the $0.11 to $0.13 shows? We do show the share impact as well on that same slide.
And remember we were saying before that shares might be an impact of $0.07 to $0.08.
We now think it's $0.05.
So we picked up $0.02 to $0.03 there.
And then the operating income -- impact of Pringles is giving us another $0.03 of benefit Eric.
Research Division</strong> And then your interest cost is lower than you thought right? Our interest costs Eric is very comparable to what we previously expected.
Research Division</strong> And how about on the currency side? The currency isn't too far off.
Right now we're saying $0.05 of currency impact and over the course of this year as we've spoken to you it's been anywhere from $0.04 to $0.06 of impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay and so -- then just following up on the free cash flow comment and I wasn't really sure if I followed the benefit of working capital associated with Pringles and why that's making the free cash flow better.
What does that mean? Sure Eric.
Be happy to elaborate on that.
And we've talked about this before.
Basically when we acquired the Pringles business we picked up a working capital benefit based on the way that the deal was structured.
And we talked about that as being in the range of anywhere from $140 million to $150 million worth of benefit.
We essentially picked up virtually no liabilities only a few and no payables.
So we've seen that benefit come through over the course of some in June and through the third quarter as well.
So we're getting essentially a one-time benefit to our cash flow here that you're seeing in the year-to-date $1.1 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question and I'll pass it on and see you next week but do you expect if you're towards the high end of the free cash flow range with CapEx being lower plus this one-time benefit.
Do you see making a pension contribution that could knock the free cash flow down? We haven't discussed any pension contributions at this point in time Eric.
And right now we're in good funding positions on our pension plans.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I have more of a modeling question.
On Cereal if you look at I think it was Slide 16 that the cereals sales were pretty stable sequentially first second and third quarter of this year.
But when you look at fourth quarter last year they dropped off quite a bit.
And I want to know should we expect the same kind of seasonal impact in fourth quarter for Morning Foods? Or is it going to be different this time? And then I have another question on the interest expense.
I guess I don't quite get the interest expense guidance.
It's David here.
There is seasonality in the Cereal category and that's relatively consistent over time.
We have increased our investment in brand building versus last year and we do have a stronger innovation in the marketplace.
So we've got off to a strong start in October and are well positioned in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Yes but David do you -- should we expect the same kind of seasonality that you typically have? Was fourth quarter seasonality last year typical or was that a steeper drop-off than normal? Robert last year's seasonality was typical.
Research Division</strong> Typical okay.
And then I guess on the interest expense $260 million -- I think that kind of implies like something like in the 60s for quarterly interest expense and fourth quarter this year.
Ron is that a good run rate to use going forward like $65 million or so per quarter? We haven't communicated guidance for 2013 at this point in time.
Of course Rob you'd expect us we're paying down our debt that our interest cost will come down over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it is a -- you are guiding to sequentially lower fourth quarter interest expense is that correct? Yes we're guiding to lower interest expense in the fourth quarter $260 million for the full year Rob so lower than the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is this a lot? You said it's the same as what you expected but again I was modeling something very different.
So have you communicated $260 million before or is this new? I don't know that the range came up previously Rob.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the organic growth in Pringles in North America in particular where you saw I think you said double-digit growth.
And I think you commented that it was incremental merchandising but I just was wondering if there was incremental distribution into new channels since you've purchased the business or what would account for that significant growth in that business? Yes Dianne and the answer is both.
We saw additional merchandising opportunities in the third quarter in the U.S.
We're able to leverage some of our very strong relationships across some key customers and we achieved some placements that business had not historically been able to achieve.
And so I think you saw a very strong response from that activity.
In addition to that as I mentioned in the prepared comments the Specialty Channels have also seen some very strong growth and we've been gaining some distribution in those channels also.
If I think back to the Keebler acquisition the part of the Keebler acquisition has surprised us positively was the Foodservice business when the 2 businesses came together.
I suspect on this acquisition the Specialty Channels will be upward surprise as these 2 businesses come together.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just define for me what you would include in the Specialty Channels? Convenience vending dollar as well as Foodservice itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask quickly on the trade deload in Mexico and that impact on the Latin American business.
Are you -- are there any other areas globally where you are concerned that that might be a factor in the future for instance because of the slower growth that we've seen particularly in continental Europe? How do you feel about where your inventory levels are either internally or in the trade? I think we're in good position from an inventory perspective particularly if you think about Continental Europe and the need for European retailers to drive their cash flow very aggressively.
I think what's happened in Mexico we're talking before about the seasonality of the Cereal category and the seasonality in trade inventory as well.
What happens is early in the year we bring out innovations cereal inventory grows through the year and then as retailers get ready for the holiday season at the end of the year they pull back on cereal inventory and build up on other holiday season-type inventories.
What's happened in Mexico is that seasonality in cereal inventory is more than what we think it should be.
And so what we've done in the back half of this year is we brought the inventories down more aggressively in the third quarter.
That inventory reduction would normally occur in the fourth quarter so it's a bit of a switch between those 2 quarters.
Also remember as we go into 2013 we wouldn't expect to build as much inventory in the first half of 2013 but we'll have a very easy comparison when we get to the third quarter of 2013 against this year's numbers.
So we are trying to keep inventories lower.
We believe lower retail inventory is actually very good thing for the company because it helps us bring our in-store activities on the shop at the same time as the advertising is on air.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question for David.
You have that slide where you talked about having 50% of the Cereal category innovation.
I'm curious where that level is where that level has been for Kellogg's let's say in Cereals the last couple of years.
And perhaps maybe more important where is the overall level of innovation as you see it or measure it for the overall Cereal category today relative to where it's been? Because there's a lot of discussion and concern out there that the category itself is in some way going to be different i.e.
slower growth going forward or just less relevant to consumers and if the structural issue versus one where -- hey the big players just haven't done their fair share of innovating over the last couple of years combined with all the pricing.
So trying to get a sense of maybe how you measure some of the metrics there to get some insight.
Andrew we're very confident about the long-term prospects of the Cereal category.
We see it as a low single-digit growth category.
It really responds to brand building innovation and nutrition.
So in terms of innovation specifically the 50% that we outlined today in terms of share is a higher share than Kellogg has achieved in recent years.
So we have improved our end market performance from an innovation perspective.
In terms of the absolute level of innovation in the category it has been lower over the last year or 2 and we're seeing that improved and it's improved sequentially throughout the year.
And as I highlighted we have strong visibility into next year's innovation plan.
Research Division</strong> And from what you can see in the marketplace just competitively would you sense -- is your sense that you will get some help on the innovation front or the category will get some help others or is it just not clear yet? I think the category responds to innovation from all participants and we expect there will be increased levels of innovation in the category and we model that and we then look at our pressure and the quality of our ideas and we are confident we can have a continued strong share of innovation within the category.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question.
I wanted to actually ask about the Kashi brand.
There's been some negative publicity out there just around the brand centered on GMOs and there also seems to be some recent distribution loss of Kashi frozen products in the natural channel.
I was hoping you can maybe address what's happening with that brand at a high level and then also talk about how it performed in the third quarter? It's David here Ed.
Kashi is a great brand and it's very well positioned to grow in the future when you think of the changing demographics and the health and wellness trends so we're very excited about the future of the Kashi brand.
During the quarter we did see some softness.
We see that as temporary.
There were 2 or 3 specific customer issues with the Kashi brand that we've been working through.
We've also built plans for the future based on increased brand building and innovation.
And in fact you'll hear next week at the Day at K that we've got a 50% increase in the level of the cereal innovation behind the Kashi brand.
We're also stepping up our support behind GOLEAN because there was some softness in the most recent quarter with the GOLEAN brand and we're relaunching our As Much Protein as an Egg campaign behind GOLEAN which works very hard for that brand.
If I can add on to that I think if we look beyond cereal business we're seeing good growth from Kashi and frozen as well which would suggest that the brand is still very strong and doing well out there.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just following on from Andrew's question on competitive dynamics in the U.S.
Cereal segment.
I think we recently heard that Post Cereals is launching their Good Morenings line at a much lower price point.
I think they've got a regional test going on of 4 or 5 SKUs at the moment.
And I think judging from their latest announcements they're planning a national rollout come early 2013.
Can you just give us any idea any thoughts about what you've learned so far? Are you very confident that this is not going to have a major impact on the competitive dynamics and pricing dynamics in the Cereal segment next year? How are they doing terms of distribution? I mean I know you can't comment about a specific brand but does seem to be potentially a bit of a change.
Alexia the Cereal category has always been a very competitive category.
It's a great category and time and time again it responds to brand building innovation nutrition.
I think you saw in most recent quarter that our strong Olympics campaign worked very hard for us.
And in addition the innovation that we're bringing to the marketplace is highly differentiated and our most recent innovation Krave which has almost a share point has really brought something that's new better and different to the category.
Another example is adults seeking more protein.
We're seeing that in our consumer tracking.
Hence we relaunched Special K Protein in the middle of this year and it's off to a fantastic start.
So we will continue to play our game of brand building innovation and nutrition messaging in the category.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe as a follow-up on the commodity outlook many other cereal -- many other food companies have been talking about deflation or easing of commodity costs.
That doesn't seem to be the case here.
How are you seeing the commodity outlook as we go into the next couple of quarters particularly on the grain side which I thought might be getting easier given the way that you tend to forward contract on the hedge? Yes sure Alexia.
So as we said -- as I said a little earlier and on the second quarter call we picked up some inflation in the back half associated with the grain costs going up and that's included in our guidance we have it managed within the earnings per share.
We do expect inflation as we're moving into 2013.
We haven't talked about the levels obviously.
Hedges we had from -- for 2012 will roll off and we'll have new positions coming up for 2013 but we do expect an inflationary environment.
Obviously we are going to do everything we can to drive productivity improvements to offset as much of the inflation as we possibly can.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I just had 2 questions for you a bit of a follow-up on Alexia's question there.
In the third quarter I don't know if you can go this far Ron but did your pricing that came through in the quarter offset cost inflation? Our pricing was a little bit lower than cost inflation.
So it didn't fully offset it.
And that's why when I commented on the commodity inflation having an impact on gross margin it's because the pricing didn't quite fully offset it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And I guess a bit of a follow-up on Europe.
If I look at this quarter you had a fairly -- if you look at your internal sales had a pretty similar sales performance obviously a little bit better sequentially but still a little soft on the volume side you had an easier comp on the profit side but you did have a much better profit performance overall.
And I guess maybe the answer is the comp but I was just curious about of the U.K.
performance how that improved in the quarter and the degree which that helped your profit performance overall for Europe.
Certainly Chris I think we're happy to see the improved performance in Europe.
We're still not satisfied with where it is and we expect to see a better fourth quarter out of Europe from a top line perspective.
And the U.K.
certainly helped that turnaround as we look within the year.
We also saw some good growth in France and some -- it's really -- the challenges for us are in southern Europe with Spain and Italy in particular were soft.
As we build for the future year we need also continue to invest back in the business to that a top line growing as well so you'll see some of that come through in the fourth quarter.
So I would expect to be -- to continue to have a profit decline in Q4 for Europe and as we go into 2013 we remain very cautious on our outlook for Europe.
Excuse me.
Sean I think that's about all we have time for? All right.
Thank you very much.
Would like to close the call now? Yes.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
I appreciate it very much and we'll be available as always to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I will turn the conference over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Laura.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
I'm joined here today by John Bryant our President and CEO; Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer; Michael Allen President of our U.S.
Frozen Foods business.
As you know we highlight different business units periodically and Michael's here to discuss our Frozen Food business in more detail.
In addition due to changes in how we account for pensions and other postretirement benefits we have provided additional detail in this presentation in the earnings press release and in an 8-K which was also filed this morning.
The press release and slides to support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront cost investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Friday February 8.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
2012 was an important year for Kellogg Company.
And we're pleased to have announced full year results which were in line with our expectations.
Sales growth was right in the middle of our guidance range and our results improved sequentially as we moved through the year.
North America Latin America and Asia Pacific all posted growth for the year and Europe saw much better performance in the second half of the year.
Internal operating profit also met our expectations and we continue to invest in the business.
In North America our U.S.
Cereal business posted a strong performance as a result of good innovation investment in brand building and strong execution by the team.
Also in North America our Frozen Foods and Specialty Channels businesses had another very good year with both posting strong internal sales growth.
And in Europe which was our most challenging region early in 2012 we saw improved internal sales performance as the year progressed.
For the full year our reported earnings per share was towards the high end of our guidance range and cash flow came in at $1.2 billion also at the high end of our expectations.
And we achieved this performance while successfully integrating Pringles into the business.
As you know the acquisition of Pringles is the second largest in the company's history and the business is a great strategic fit.
I'm happy to say that the integration is going well.
Now let's turn to Slide 4 which showed some highlights for the fourth quarter.
As you can see we ended 2012 with strong results.
For the total company internal sales growth increased by 5.3% in the fourth quarter with all of the regions contributing to growth.
In North America we saw a 5.5% internal sales growth.
U.S.
Cereal had a strong quarter as did the Canadian business and both U.S.
Specialty and Frozen Foods posted double-digit gains.
The sequential improvement we saw through the year continued in international businesses as well.
Europe posted internal sales growth of just less than 3% in Q4.
Asia Pacific saw good growth of 5% and Latin America posted 9% growth.
Our plan for the year was for sequential improvement.
As the year progressed this is what we achieved.
The plan includes high levels of brand building later in the year and our results in the fourth quarter include the effect of this investment.
In fact brand-building activity increased at a double-digit rate in Q4.
This investment combined with the strong innovation we launched throughout the year helped drive our results.
So 2012 was a transition year.
We posted improvement and we ended the year in a much stronger position.
We invested in the business drove our model and the results reflect this activity.
We recognize that we still have work to do and that economic conditions remain difficult in some regions.
However I'm encouraged by the progress we have made.
We are well positioned and I am optimistic about our potential as we enter 2013.
Now I'll turn it over to Ron.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Before I review the performance it's important to note that our reported results for operating profit and earnings per share include the impact of the pension accounting changes we highlighted at our Investor Day in November.
Our comparable internal results have been adjusted to show results prior to the pension accounting change and also exclude acquisitions divestitures and the impact of foreign currency privilege.
And we're providing underlying earnings per share which exclude integration costs.
Our 2011 results have also been recast for comparability.
Slide 5 shows our fourth quarter and year-to-date financial results.
For the quarter reported sales growth was 18.2%.
Internal sales growth was 5.3%.
Reported operating profit was impacted by a $401 million noncash mark-to-market charge on pensions.
Comparable internal operating profit decreased by 7.6%.
This was driven by cost inflation a double-digit increase in investment in brand building and timing of upfront costs resulting from an initiative in Australia.
For the full year reported sales growth was 7.6% and internal sales growth was 2.5%.
Comparable internal operating profit decreased by 5.9% consistent with our expectations.
The full year decline was the result of cost inflation the impact of the third quarter's limited recall and increased investment in brand building.
Reported earnings were a negative $0.09 per share in the fourth quarter and $2.67 for the full year.
Both fourth quarter and full year reported results include a pension mark-to-market charge for a decline in the discount rate partially offset by better-than-expected asset returns.
Earnings per share were $0.67 in the fourth quarter excluding the pension accounting change and $0.05 of Pringles integration costs up 4.7% versus last year.
For the full year earnings per share excluding the pension accounting change and Pringles integration costs net of onetime benefits were $3.37.
Slide 6 shows a walk for earnings per share to provide clarity on the performance for the year.
As you can see we reported 2012 EPS of $2.67.
The mark-to-market adjustment was $0.85 and the onetime step-up due to the elimination of the amortization of previous losses on the pension assets was $0.24 in line with our previous estimates.
Adjusting for these items earnings per share was $3.28 at the high end of our previous as-recorded guidance of $3.18 to $3.30 per share.
If you add back the net integration costs associated with Pringles which were $0.09 per share you get a better picture of our underlying earnings per share which were $3.37.
We believe this method is comparable to how analysts and investors are viewing our earnings.
It's worth noting too that the $0.24 will be a permanent step-up in the earnings base as it's the elimination of the amortization of losses on pensions.
As a result the base 2012 EPS we used for comparisons includes the step-up and I'll discuss guidance for 2013 in a few minutes and how this change will be viewed in terms of our basis for growth in 2013.
Slide 7 details the components of fourth quarter and full year sales growth.
As you can see internal sales growth increased by 2.5% for the full year.
Reported sales increased by 7.6%.
Volume increased by 2.6% in the fourth quarter and reflected the strong growth posted by most of the North American businesses.
We've seen consistent improvement in our volume performance as we have moved through the year.
Price and mix increased by 2.7% in the fourth quarter and by 3.3% for the full year.
So we had a good balance of volume and price mix growth in the fourth quarter.
The sales growth in the fourth quarter and the full year was broad based.
We saw growth in all of our key categories: cereal snacks and our specialty and frozen businesses.
In addition all of our regions across the globe contributed to the growth for the quarter.
The addition of Pringles was the primary contributor to the increased 12.7 points in the quarter and 6.5 points for the full year related to acquisitions and divestitures.
Currency reduced sales growth by 1.4 points for the year.
Slide 8 shows our gross profit and gross margin performance for the full year.
Full year gross profit increased by 3% to $5.7 billion.
Full year margin declined by 1.8 points consistent with our expectations and was impacted by cost inflation as well as the lower margin structure for Pringles.
As we've mentioned before though we have begun to make changes which will increase the margins of the Pringles business over time.
Our productivity savings were in line with our expectations for the year and our long-term target of 3% to 4%.
Now let's turn to Slide 9 and our investment in brand building.
We increased brand building at a double-digit rate in the quarter.
It follows a significant increase in the third quarter as well.
This showed strong investment growth across most regions behind brands such as Special K and Frosted Flakes and our investment supported strong sales growth across the regions.
Our brand-building investment can vary by quarter and from year-to-year due to commercial plans and the timing of innovation.
In 2012 our brand building was weighted more to the second half of the year.
For the full year our brand-building growth was also broadly in line with the rate of sales growth.
And we've got some exciting plans for investment in 2013 and we also expect improvement in efficiency and effectiveness.
We'll focus on increasing investments in advertising in 2013 including in the digital space and with Hispanic-oriented programs while also maintaining strong levels of consumer promotion.
Slide 10 details the quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
Comparable internal operating profit for the total company decreased by 7.6% in the fourth quarter as I mentioned earlier.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 1.6%.
As has been the case all year commodity inflation had a meaningful impact on results.
In addition the North America business increased its investment in brand building by more than 15% during the quarter.
This was a significant increase and helped drive 5.5% sales growth.
Internal operating profit in Europe declined by 7.7% in the quarter.
This was in line with our expectations and included significant commodity inflation as well as an increase in brand building.
In addition macro conditions in the region especially in Southern Europe continue to be difficult.
We do expect to see this region grow profit in 2013.
Internal operating profit in Latin America increased by 19.7%.
This was driven by strong net sales growth of more than 9% and a relatively easier comp.
Asia Pacific posted a decrease in internal operating profit of more than 70% in Q4 mostly due to upfront costs associated with the plant closure in Australia.
This was included in our guidance for total upfront cost but it has had a significant impact on Asia Pacific's Q4 operating profit.
In addition to this Asia Pacific also increased its investment in brand building at a double-digit rate.
Slide 11 shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Year-to-date cash flow was just over $1.2 billion an increase of $220 million versus last year and this does include the working capital benefit from the acquisition of Pringles as well as slightly lower capital spending.
Full year capital spending was $533 million or 3.8% of sales slightly below our previous expectations due to the timing of investment between 2012 and 2013.
Of course we have continued our capacity investments in Pringles to support future growth.
Share repurchases were $63 million for the full year with all the repurchases occurring in the first quarter.
Options proceeds were $229 million so we have seen some dilution.
In 2012 we focused on paying down debt.
But as we move into 2013 we are likely to repurchase shares to the extent of options proceeds to reduce dilution impact.
Consistent with our commitment we have reduced our debt by nearly $400 million from the time of the Pringles acquisition.
Slide 12 shows our guidance for 2013 which hasn't changed since our Investor Day in November.
We continue to expect that reported net sales will increase by approximately 7%.
The impact of Pringles will be about 5 points of the reported growth and we expect currency to be a 1 point headwind.
So we anticipate that internal net sales will increase by approximately 3%.
However as I told you at our Investor Day 3% is just an estimate.
Pringles is included in our comparable results for the last 7 months of the year but we could see business shift between the periods impacting our comparable results but not reported results.
It is important to note that we do expect continued cost inflation in 2013.
We expect inflation to be approximately 5% but we are anticipating cost savings at the high end of our 3% to 4% range to partially offset the impact.
As we think about the shape of the year our inflation is more front-end loaded and our savings a bit more back-end loaded.
We expect that gross margins will be down approximately 50 basis points primarily due to the full year impact of a lower margin on Pringles.
Reported operating profit growth will be slightly higher than reported earnings per share growth of 5% to 7%.
EPS growth is impacted by a headwind from certain favorable onetime benefits we saw in the second quarter of 2012.
Recall that have discussed these items several times onetime benefits in taxes and transactional currency totaling $0.07 of earnings per share.
Our earnings per share also includes an estimate of a $0.02 headwind from currency translation so results could be impacted if currency rates differ significantly from our estimates.
We expect our 2013 tax rate to be approximately 30% up approximately 1 point from our underlying rate in 2012.
Also included in the results are Pringles integration costs of between $0.12 and $0.14 per share.
We posted good cash flow growth in 2012 partially due to some benefits from the acquisition.
We expect cash flow in 2013 will be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion.
We anticipate that capital spending will be slightly more than 4% of sales due to the timing of spending that I mentioned earlier.
This will allow us to continue to invest in capacity needs for Pringles as well as other capacity productivity and infrastructure requirements across our business.
During the first quarter we expect solid sales growth but commodity inflation and timing of other costs will impact operating profit.
So we expect the comparable operating profit may decline slightly year-over-year.
Also we'll be lapping the $0.05 benefit from interest rate hedges from the first quarter of 2012.
These were related to the Pringles acquisition.
So our earnings per share is expected to be down in the first quarter.
Of course our guidance on operating profit and earnings per share excludes the impact of mark-to-market adjustments.
Slide 13 is a walk from 2012 earnings per share to our 2013 guidance.
You can see the reported 2012 EPS base excluding the impact of mark-to-market and before the changes to pension accounting $3.28 per share.
As we said earlier the change in pension accounting adds $0.24 to this base to give a 2012 earnings per share of $3.52.
We expect reported growth including a $0.02 currency impact of between 5% and 7% for 2013 or a range of $3.70 to $3.77 a share.
Excluding the $0.12 to $0.14 per share of integration costs our earnings per share range is $3.82 to $3.91.
So we have good growth in earnings per share in 2013 on both the reported basis and excluding integration costs.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Ron.
Slide 14 shows the internal revenue growth posted by Kellogg North America.
We've seen a lot of improvement during the year and ended with strong 5.5% growth in Q4.
Each of the segments posted growth for both the quarter and for the year which is excellent performance.
Now let's turn to Slide 15 and the performance of the Morning Foods and Kashi segment.
Internal sales growth was 6.3% in Q4 including our strong growth of 4% last year.
Our Q4 sales benefited from a build in retail inventory in preparation for strong resolution program and new product launches.
In Cereal we gained 0.7 of 1 point of category share in the quarter.
Krave continues to hold almost 1 point of share as it has all year and we saw good growth in some of the other brands that we supported such as Frosted Flakes Froot Loops and Raisin Bran.
Frosted Flakes did very well all year due to strong family-oriented advertising that really resonated with consumers.
The innovation we launched in the second half also contributed and Special K Protein posted very good sales growth and also gained share.
And our Bear Naked brand continued to post strong results.
Pop-Tarts posted consumption growth of 3.4% and gained 1 point of a share in Q4.
Share also increased for the full year to 83.8% with innovation like Oatmeal Delights and Wild! Fruit Fusion contributing to the growth.
We expect good performance from this segment in 2013 as we have innovations such as Special K Chocolatey Strawberry and Mini-Wheats Crunch that were just launched as well as the Kellogg's Breakfast Drinks we showed at the Analyst Day in November.
Slide 16 shows the internal net sales performance of the U.S.
Snacks segment over the last couple of years.
The business posted internal sales growth of 0.7% but this was lapping a very difficult comparison of almost 9% growth in Q4 of last year.
We saw a mid-single digit sales growth in the Crackers business in the fourth quarter building on a comp of more than 9% last year.
Our 4 core brands Cheez-It Club Special K and Town House posted a combined growth of 5%.
Special K Cracker Chips and Popcorn Chips which we introduced during the third quarter of last year both continue to do very well.
We've got some great innovation planned for 2013 including barbecue cracker chips and new flavors of Popcorn Chips and Cheez-It.
The Cookie business posted increased internal net sales for the full year.
Although we saw a decline in sales in the quarter we were lapping a mid-single-digit comp last year.
The Sandies business did well in the quarter and we have a lot of activity and innovations planned for 2013 including Brownie and Pretzel Bites and Chips Deluxe Triple Chocolate.
The wholesome snacks business was lapping a very difficult double-digit comp in the fourth quarter.
However we continue to see strong results from innovation including Special K Pastry Crisps.
And we also expect that innovation will contribute to growth in 2013.
The launch of a new FiberPlus protein bar is going well and we have Nutri-Grain Fruit Crunch Special K Protein bars and a new flavor of Pastry Crisps all being launched.
Finally we remain very pleased with our U.S.
Pringles business.
Sales increased at a mid-single-digit rate in Q4 and the brand responded well to holiday activity and ended the year with even stronger results in December.
As you know we exclude the impact of Pringles from our internal growth rate calculation.
Slide 17 shows recent performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Internal net sales growth was 10% in Q4 and was more than 7% for the full year.
We increased sales with our top customers in both the quarter and the year driven by strong results from innovation and excellent effort by the team to expand points of distribution.
In addition each of the businesses food service convenience and vending posted strong rates of growth for the year.
We're very pleased with 2012's results and expect great performance from this business again in 2013.
Slide 18 shows the performance of the North America Other segment which includes the Canadian and Frozen Foods businesses.
The Canadian business posted mid-single-digit sales growth in the quarter.
New products such as Krave Special K Cracker Chips and Special K Shakes helped drive our growth.
We've also seen good growth in our Frozen Food business in Canada.
Now I'll turn it over to Michael Allen who will discuss our U.S.
Frozen Food business in more detail.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start today with a couple of slides that some of you might remember from the Analyst Day in November.
However I realized that some of you might not have seen them and they do give important context.
So if we turn to Slide 20 you'll see some information regarding the history of the Frozen Food business at Kellogg.
Eggo was the first toaster waffle and dates all the way back to 1953.
As you can see Kellogg purchased Eggo in 1970 and I'll show you some data later about how the brand has grown more recently.
We added Worthington Foods and the Morningstar Farms brand in 1999 and Gardenburger in 2007.
You'll see too that we took our own Kashi brand into the Frozen Food category in 2006.
Given the attractiveness of our brands and the growth of the categories in which we compete we are focused on continuing to drive organic growth.
Page 21 provides some detail regarding the segments of the Frozen Food category in which we compete.
As you can see we're in 3 segments that are posting significant rates of growth.
This makes these segments much more attractive than many others in the Frozen Food category and within these segments we have differentiated brands and products.
The frozen breakfast category which includes waffles pancakes breakfast sandwiches and entrées posted consumption growth of 3.4% in 2012.
These products provide convenience and in the case of our new Special K Flatbread sandwiches protein and relatively fewer calories.
Our flatbreads have only recently been introduced but we've seen great retail acceptance and strong velocity.
The frozen veggie category posted consumption growth of more than 7% in 2012 as many consumers choosing between meat and veggie alternatives chose our veggie alternatives.
Those are not all converts to vegetarian diets.
Instead the growth comes predominantly from people who continue to view meat as an option.
Our products provide alternatives for consumers without requiring them to give up any of the taste or protein that they love.
And finally the natural and organic segment grew more than 10% last year due to the combination of convenience and increasing demand for natural and organic foods.
Our Kashi brands plays very well in this space.
It's a brand that consumers know and trust and we've added innovations to our existing pizza and entrée businesses.
In 2012 we launched Kashi Steam Meals a convenient and easy way to get delicious natural meals.
Now let's turn to Slide 22 and a discussion of recent performance.
Many of you may not realize that the Frozen Foods business is one of Kellogg's fastest growing.
As you can see on the chart we posted internal net sales growth of almost 13% in the fourth quarter and full year sales growth of almost 11%.
While we're seeing very strong rates of category growth we're also focusing on innovation to continue to provide healthy options for consumers.
I've mentioned Special K Flatbreads already but we've quite a few other new products that have contributed.
The Eggo brand remains very popular with moms and we've seen very strong rates of all-family consumption.
This has been increased by the introduction of several innovations including Thick &amp; Fluffy Waffles which have been a huge success and more recently Wafflers.
So these are really strong results and are a testament to all the hard work the team did last year.
Slide 23 shows the progression of sales growth for the Frozen Foods business over the last 3 years.
The results have been impressive and you can see that we've seen considerable growth over much of the last decade.
We posted a sales compound annual growth rate of more than 8% over the last 9 years which is fantastic performance and we've seen even faster growth more recently.
Eggo's share of the waffle category is now at an all-time high and we've managed that with fewer SKUs so a real achievement.
Slide 24 is a slide I showed at the analyst meeting.
It details the recent revenue growth posted by the peer group of frozen food manufacturers.
As I mentioned earlier we compete in advantaged segments of the broader category which obviously continues -- contributes to our growth.
However the innovation I discussed is also a factor and you can see that we've outpaced the sales growth of the rest of the industry in 2012.
It's interesting to note that our nearest competitor on the chart is actually a combination of private label manufacturers and we grew at almost twice their rate.
So we're in the right segments of the category and we're executing well.
Finally I should also mention that we're seeing very good rates of growth in more nontraditional channels such as food service schools and drug and discount stores.
So as consumption and shopping habits change we're adapting accordingly.
Chart 25 shows some of the drivers of the Eggo business.
Eggo's a very attractive brand that responds very well with brand building.
As a result we're continuing to make significant investments including in the digital space.
Eggo is one of the strongest equities at Kellogg and we continue to see penetration upside.
This brand has grown historically behind that line of L'Eggo my Eggo.
And because the brand is so popular we got great support from our customers.
They like it's responsiveness to investment how incremental the innovation is to sales and a long track record of growth.
It's also interesting that a majority of our sales are base sales.
In fact this is a category has very low level of incremental activity and we see very little seasonal effect unlike many other categories.
Chart 26 shows the sales growth that's resulted in the last few years.
As you can see we've seen 8% compounded growth over the last 9 years which is really excellent performance and the growth has been even faster in the last couple of years.
Obviously given the plans we have for 2013 we're optimistic regarding growth again this year.
Slide 27 and 28 show a similar look at the Morningstar Farms brand.
Again Morningstar competes in a fast-growing on-trend categories and the brand really responds to investment in brand building.
We ramped up our activity in May of 2012 and we saw a significant response in sales as a result.
Consumers are looking for more meat alternatives and Morningstar Farms provides this while delivering great taste.
Innovation is important in this segment as well.
Existing consumers like the choice alternatives and new consumers can be drawn into the category by innovative new products.
For these reasons variety is important and we've done a very good job of expanding our offerings.
Avoidance of meat is an important customer trend and we're well positioned to benefit and even drive the category.
As you can see on Slide 28 all this activity and the growth characteristics of the category have resulted in a strong growth for Morningstar Farms as well in recent years.
The 9-year compound annual growth rate for the net sales is more than 6% and again we have strong plans for 2013 and expect the good results to continue.
And now let's turn to Slide 29 and look at some of the innovation we've got planned for 2013.
I've mentioned the importance of innovation a number of times today and you can see on the chart that we've got some great new products planned for introduction.
We have new varieties of Kashi Steam Meals and Kashi Pizza.
We have the Special K Flatbread sandwiches I discussed earlier.
We have a new Morningstar Farms burger the Mediterranean Chickpea Burger.
We have S'mores Eggo Waffles Special K Red Berries Waffles and new Eggo Drizzlers in 2 flavors blueberry and strawberry.
These waffles come with the topping and are a delicious addition to the brand.
As I mentioned innovation is largely incremental in our categories and we're optimistic about the great lineup of new products we have ready for 2013.
Let's turn to Slide 30 and the summary.
Hopefully you can see we have a strong Frozen Foods business in the United States.
The business is anchored by strong brands which are growing in attractive on-trend categories.
Our innovation has been largely incremental while our core business continues to grow.
We will continue to invest in this business and build upon our leadership position.
We have a dedicated team of Frozen Foods professionals who are focused on these categories and our key customers each and every quarter.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Michael.
Now let's turn to Slide 31 and our international businesses.
The European business posted internal sales growth of almost 3% in the fourth quarter.
This was a sequential improvement and continued the trend we've seen all year.
The cereal category in the U.K.
continues to be competitive but we saw improvement in our total U.K.
business in the second half of the year.
Crunchy Nut has responded to recent activity and the Snacks business has done very well.
Recent innovation including Biscuit Moments Breakfast Biscuits Special K Cracker Crisps are all off to a good start and we're optimistic regarding the Snacks business as we start 2013.
We also saw good results in Northern Europe particularly in France and the Germanics.
However Southern Europe remains difficult.
As we've said before we realize that improvement in Europe will take time but we are addressing the challenges we have a new team in place and we expect to see continued progress in the region in 2013.
We posted internal sales growth of 4.6% in Asia Pacific in the fourth quarter.
We saw a continued improvement in Australia and we gained category share in both Cereal and in Snacks.
In Cereal Nutri-Grain Sultana Bran All-Bran and Crunchy Nut all did well late in the year.
And in Snacks Nutri-Grain and Special K saw good growth.
We did a lot of work in Australia earlier in the year to improve our commercial plans and the results have been strong.
We also saw good growth in other parts of Asia.
In India China and Southeast Asia we posted double-digit internal sales growth and we saw a high-single-digit growth from our South African business.
Finally the integration of Pringles is going well in the region as we continue to transition distributors.
In Latin America we posted 9.4% internal sales growth as a result of share gains and improved price mix.
Mexico posted mid-single-digit growth driven by strong innovation in the Snacks business including Special K Crisps.
The rest of the Latin American business did very well in Q4.
Central America Venezuela Brazil Argentina the Andean countries in Chile all posted good growth.
We gained share in Central America behind growth in Froot Loops and Choco Krispies and we also gained share in Colombia and saw good results in Brazil.
The growth in these other Latin American countries has been good all year and we expect to see continued growth in the region in 2013.
Now let's turn to Slide 32 and the summary.
2012 was an important year for Kellogg Company.
We posted improved performance as the year progressed and net sales operating profit and EPS all ended the year in line with our expectations.
In fact if you look at our results in the second half of the year and compare them to the first half you can see the dramatic improvement we posted later in the year.
All the regions contributed to sales growth in the second half.
North America posted strong results and we saw improving performance throughout the year in the international businesses.
We achieved these results while continuing to invest in future growth with significant increases in investment later in the year.
And our Pringles business continues to exceed expectations.
The integration is going well and the team is doing a great job.
Sales growth has been strong since we closed in late May and the business has responded well to all the activity we've introduced both in the U.S.
and internationally.
We are giving strong guidance for sales growth operating profit and EPS in 2013.
We plan to continue to increase our investment in advertising this year from a strong base.
And as you heard at our Analyst Day we have a lot of exciting innovation launching now and plan for introduction later in the year.
So 2013 is really a return to the Kellogg operating model.
We've done a lot of work in recent years to set the right foundation.
We've invested in the business.
We've adjusted our strategy to focus more on growth and we acquired Pringles.
These have been significant changes for us and we're confident that they are the right ones and we're optimistic about the future.
Finally let's thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication in 2012.
And with that I'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a quick one and then a longer one.
First when you say 1Q comparable EBIT and EPS may be down year-on-year would you mind clarifying what exact EBIT and EPS base numbers you're referring to? So Ken this is Ron.
In terms of the comparables it's based on the restated information that we provided to you for 2012 and then going forward including the pension accounting change.
So our comparable operating profit as we said we expect could be down slightly.
And then earnings per share is impacted by this onetime benefit that we recognized in the first quarter of 2012 that's about $0.05 related to the interest rate hedges on Pringles.
Remember that did reverse out in the second quarter but we're lapping that benefit in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll follow up on that.
And then as you look at your model getting to that EPS growth next year it seems like there's a number of nonrecurring issues going away next year.
Guidance seems a bit conservative to me.
So I realized there's some headwinds too right? Your stock compensation that should increase.
But I guess I'm curious if your model turns out to be light where do you think you're being most conservative? What are the key I guess pivot points there as you look at it? Well Ken we believe we're providing realistic guidance for 2013.
It's very consistent with what we communicated at the Investor Day.
It includes accretion in both our Pringles business and operating profit growth within our base business as well.
So we're comfortable with the guidance.
Ken as I look at the 2013 guidance clearly we have a strong performance from Pringles in there.
We go right back to the date of the acquisition.
We gave you some guidance on Pringles.
We did a little bit better than that in 2012.
Some of that accretion is helping us in 2013 as well.
If you kind of go back to the underlying Kellogg guidance that's implicit within that we have internal sales growth of around 3% the low end of our long-term guidance.
We had some internal operating profit growth to make those numbers work as well.
So I think what you're seeing is us getting back on our model of reinvesting in our business of increasing our advertising over time.
Our gross margin is down a little bit year-on-year but that's largely the Pringles integration and we'd love to see that gross margin start to track in the right direction improving over time.
So I think you're seeing an underlying improvement in our results.
And the next question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about Cereal category dynamics? You yourselves are clearly doing very well on the back of very strong innovation but the category still looks pretty weak from a volume perspective.
And I think 2 of the key competitors have taken their net pricing down quite a bit.
So I'm just curious about how you see I guess your share gains evolving through the year.
Are you planning on maintaining that momentum? And then specifically can you maybe comment on how Kashi is doing? It looks as though in the last quarter or so it's really taken a bit of a downturn and I'm wondering if that's just a temporary slowdown in innovation or whether there's something else going on.
Thanks Alexia.
Let me take the Cereal category trends first.
So we are seeing improving volume trends in the Cereal category over time though I must admit that in total in dollars the category is relatively flattish.
Within that across the back half of 2012 we gained about 70 basis points of share and that's even with a slight disruption to our Mini-Wheats business.
And what we're seeing in our business is it's really driven by innovation and by brand building.
And we're seeing the business respond to that.
So I'm confident that if the category in totality drives more brand building and more innovation I think the category will respond to that.
So it's a great brand.
It is relatively rational.
I mean pricing is still up year-on-year in the category.
Price lid actually lost 20 basis points a share.
When you get the price lid we add private label and multi-meal together as one group.
Talking about Kashi specifically.
I mean Kashi is a great brand.
It's had tremendous growth over the years and it's still growing where we've extended it in areas like frozen and wholesome snacks.
However in Cereal we do have a couple of challenges around that Kashi business.
Some of the innovation in recent years has not been as strong as our core Kashi SKUs.
And so we've lost some core SKUs that we think would have done better than innovation.
Some of the brand building has moved away from the core benefit of Kashi so we have an opportunity to sharpen our focus a little bit more.
And some of the shelf presence and some of that smaller SKUs on shelf is not what we needed to be.
So we're not happy with the performance of our Kashi business.
We think it's more tactical in nature.
Over the next 6 months we're going to work to fix and improve that business get it back in the right direction.
But we obviously have some work to do there.
And next we have a question from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Varun Gokarn in for Jason.
Just a quick housekeeping question.
What was the gross margin in the fourth quarter before the pension adjustment? And what was the realized inflation rate in the quarter? Our gross margin was down about 250 basis points in the quarter very consistent with expectations.
It would have been impacted by some dilution from the Pringles business.
Around 90 basis points to that is the Pringles business.
So underlying gross margin in our business was down about 160 basis points.
Our inflation was pretty consistent across the entirety of the year.
So we saw just over 7% cost inflation and that was very consistent in the fourth quarter.
And the next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I got a couple of questions.
Sorry Simon.
I guess first John can you give a little bit more detail on how Pringles internationally is doing kind of year-over-year? You do have some challenges with this -- the distribution changes.
You've kind of noted how the business is doing in America.
How's it doing internationally? Sure and maybe if I step back here Eric.
In terms of the integration in totality it's going very smoothly.
We got excellent people retention and some great people who joined the company.
We're very excited about that.
As Ron said in the prepared remarks its financials a bit better than we expected.
We're actually getting improved output from some of the plants and we have some new capacity coming on.
So we're feeling a little better about the capacity situation.
If you look at the top line performance to your question specifically Eric in the U.S.
we saw about 5% growth in the fourth quarter in Pringles.
In Europe we're up slightly up sort of about 1% in the fourth quarter.
And that reflects a couple of things.
It reflects that we are a bit tight on capacity.
It also reflects a pre-existing P&amp;G strategy which is the right strategy to reset the level of trade activity in the U.K.
So the U.K.
is being particularly soft more because of the strategy around what Pringles is trying to do.
In Latin America we saw good double-digit growth in the region.
In Asia Pacific Pringles is actually down double digits down around 10% 12% and that's really because of the distributor transition in Asia Pacific as we move from P&amp;G distributor to a Kellogg distributor.
And within that obviously you burn through the pre-existing inventories that the distributor have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess in the Nielsen Data which is pretty relevant to the U.S.
market today it showed that your pricing was down and yet in the fourth quarter you noted that North America price mix was up.
So was mix a very strong component in your internal pricing is probably because promotion was down? I think if you look in the fourth quarter price and mix are both favorable I think about 2/3 price 1/3 mix thereabout.
It is down a little bit in some of the more recent measured data.
Part of that Eric depends on which category you're looking at.
Remember in the first quarter last year we had a relatively weak resolution period on cereal.
We try to increase our promoted price points.
And we came in at Q1 kind of soft.
We've gone back in Q4 -- so we've come back in the first quarter of this year to our historical price points and so you're seeing a little bit of a year-on-year change.
That's more an issue with Q1 last year being the anomaly than we're doing something fundamentally different in Q1 of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last thing if I can just slip it in.
Ron I think the insurance that you had -- benefit that you would had expected from the business disruption I don't know was 2 years ago 1.5 years ago it was like $0.10.
And then I think this latest recall should have been insured.
So don't you have something like $0.10 to $0.15 of insurance benefit coming to you? And is that included anywhere here? And how would you treat that if you got that back given that you took the hit when you had the recalls to ongoing operations? Eric these types of things take not just months but years.
And as you mentioned the first recall we had on cereal was back in 2010 and we're still working through that process.
So we're not certain exactly when that will settle but it is an ongoing process.
We don't have anything that's been recognized in 2012 and we don't have anything included in our 2013 guidance in association with any type of settlement.
They obviously would run back through the profit and loss statement.
And our next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question I guess going back to new products.
Just one of the things that you've done very well over the last 2 years is really refill your new product pipeline.
So I guess if you think about as we look at 2013 can you give us any idea or some color on how much you think or you expect new products to contribute to your overall sales growth in 2013 and whether we're sort of at a normal pace of contribution from innovation? I think as we look at 2013 innovation we expect it to be at least as large an impact as the 2012 innovation.
So we continue at a very strong pipeline as we go into 2013.
We also continue to look at the incrementally of that innovation.
So for example the Cracker Chips that we launched here in the U.S.
were very incremental.
We've now launched those in Canada Mexico the U.K.
So we're seeing more of that sort of expansion.
Even for something like the breakfast beverages like the Kellogg's to Go that you can see here in the U.S.
we believe they will be quite incremental to our business.
So it's the absolute size and the incrementality of the innovation.
But even on absolute size terms we expect the dollars from innovation to 2013 to be at least the same as what we saw in 2012 as we keep going back towards around 15% of our sales from innovation on a rolling 3-year metric.
Research Division</strong> And then are we spending at a normalized level as well so you need to increase spending against new product innovation? Or are we now at a sort of a base level that supports that 15% target? I think we have a good support level.
I think we had a good amount of brand-building investment.
What really drives up the-brand-building investment is when you're launching whole new brands and we're not doing a lot of that.
We're more extending some of the strong brands we have and reframing when the consumer can get the benefit of that brand as we've seen with the beverages and the cracker chips and so on.
So we feel good with the level of brand-building investment that we have.
And the next question is from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John you mentioned that you'd have productivity probably at the high end of your 3% to 4% range in '13 and that inflation would be around 5%.
So productivity I think your words were would partially offset some of the input cost inflation.
So I guess my question would be normally pricing would then come into play to sort of fill that gap right to at least protect your gross margin dollars.
So I guess has there been any incremental announcements around pricing that you can talk about? And if not I was trying to get a sense what does that say around either your ability or maybe the industry's ability to kind of take a little bit the pricing here to help with the inflation even though I know the experience around volume over the past year has not been great for the industry as a whole? Yes Andrew I don't want to talk too much about prospective pricing.
As you look at -- if you look at 2013 sales growth we're expecting a pretty good balance between volume price and mix.
So it's a combination within there.
And if you look at what's happening in 2013 we do have inflation of around 5% and cost savings around 3% to 4%.
That's a little bit more inflation than we'd normally like to have.
I think in more normal times inflation will be more around 3% maybe 4% which means that we can get gross margin expansion just through the productivity savings.
So I think if you're looking at gross margin specifically you back out Pringles we're more or less flattish year-on-year.
In a perfect world I'd like to see gross margin expansion.
What's holding that back a little bit is that 5% inflation versus 3% or 4% inflation.
But if your concern is around pricing we believe we can take pricing to the most amount that we will need to in order to make our economics work in 2013.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful and I appreciate it.
And then I guess lastly is just on Pringles I guess.
It seems as though I used the best of my ability to estimate this but maybe the margins for Pringles have come in a bit better than we had been at least modeling.
And I think we assume margins may take a step back just to account for a lot of the reinvestment that I know you want to do and you're planning to do behind the brand the integration on European part of the business.
So I'm trying to get a sense of -- have margins been better on this business then you would have anticipated? And do they take a step back ultimately before the longer-term opportunity that I know you believe you have in Pringles really starts to kick in? Yes Andrew as we came through 2012 the end of the year our gross margin performance in particular did get better on Pringles.
We saw better throughputs in the manufacturing plants.
And we've even talked about being able to improve and expand the amount of capacity that we have available to run products.
So we saw good throughputs good margin expansion.
As we invest and we've talked about more capital behind the business to support our growth needs over time you will see an initial -- slight step back because of the depreciation drag associated with that capital spending.
But obviously our intent would be to fill that capacity up as quickly as possible.
I think going forward our goal would be to improve the gross margin of Pringles over time closer to the Kellogg Company average and put that money back into brand building so it won't have the same impact on operating leverage.
And next we have a question from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the Nielsen Data for Kellogg it looks like the frozen breakfast segment is actually really slowing -- or has slowed down over the course of the year.
When you talked about the category you sounded much more positive on it.
Is there a disconnect? Or is Nielsen not showing the full picture? So it's Michael thank you for the question.
When you look at frozen breakfast category it's composed of a couple of things.
One is syrup carriers which is where our waffle business is.
So if you look at the overall effect you've seen part of the one segment that drives frozen breakfast slow down a little bit that's handheld.
And what you've seen in the growth underneath that is syrup carriers which is waffles which is where the majority of our business has been.
So that would probably explain the dynamic.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So are you seeing the same slowdown for your frozen breakfast business that we're seeing on scanner data? And is the slowdown continuing into 2013? Or is that just the way that Nielsen reports and there's no slowdown from your perspective? We feel pretty confident about where our performance has been through Q4 and we would expect our growth to continue.
Hey Thilo I think the discrepancy is the subsegments within that frozen breakfast category as Nielsen reports it.
So largely where our business has been growing faster than the overall frozen breakfast segment.
There are other pieces in there that have been growing a little less quickly.
We can talk offline about it if you like.
And the next question is from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had -- I had 2 questions for you.
The first one would just be in relation to Europe where I think Ron you said you expect some profit growth in the year.
I just want to get a better sense what the improving top line growth you saw the last couple of quarters? Do you expect to continue call it recovery or improvement in revenue growth there as well in 2013? As we look at Europe and we go into 2013 we do expect Europe to meet the top and bottom line growth in 2013.
Having said that it does remain the one reason that we're most cautious on given the economic environment in Europe also the level of change in our European businesses.
It's the region that's undergoing the greatest integration with Pringles because it was Pringles' single largest business and also as percentage of the Kellogg business that's having a dramatic impact.
We're also reorganizing our Kellogg organization.
In fact I should say we have reorganized our Kellogg organization.
We have a relatively new leadership team.
So we are confident about the future but there's been a tremendous amount of change in there.
So we do feel confident in top and bottom line growth.
There are synergies coming out of Pringles deals.
That's a little bit higher in Europe than you'd see elsewhere around the world that gives us some of that confidence.
But it does remain a difficult region.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just if I could add on to that or ask a question about Pringles overall have you said and if you did I missed it I'm sorry but the amount of Pringles accretion you expect in 2013 I thought I'd ask along with that the amount of synergies you still have left to achieve that you outlined when you first bought the business? Sure Chris let me comment do that.
Let me take a step back and talk about 2012 as well.
We performed very well on the businesses.
We came through the balance of the year.
And our business actually did better than we had even expected as we came through the fourth quarter.
So our accretion from Pringles was about $0.05 better than the original $0.11 to $0.13 we were discussing.
Now this is -- had a gross accretion before integration costs.
We've talked about that at the third quarter.
And that took -- helped to take us to the high end of our earnings per share range.
So for accretion in '12 we had about $0.17.
As we move to 2013 for Pringles we're expecting something in the range of $0.30 to $0.32 of gross accretion from the business.
And then we talked about the $0.12 to $0.14 offsetting integration costs.
In terms of synergies we landed 2012 in the range of $15 million to $20 million.
It's very consistent with our expectations.
As we look to 2013 remember we've always talked about a range of $50 million to $75 million will be towards the low end of that range in 2013 and then obviously stepping up as we move into 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to be clear the $0.30 to $0.32 of that does that include the $0.12 to $0.14 of integration costs? It does not.
And next there's a question from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll just follow on just the point here on the Pringles.
When you guys originally gave that gross accretion guidance you also indicated at the time the cessation of the share repurchase program.
So correct me if I'm wrong but I thought the way to think about it was you take that $0.17 of gross accretion and you net it against the lack of the share repurchase program.
So then on a net basis it was something like you call it $0.10.
Is that correct for 2012? That is absolutely correct David.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then we look for an additional $0.07 to kind of headwind because again no share repurchase expected in 2013 so you take another $0.07 off the $0.30 to $0.32.
Yes it'll probably be around $0.05 or $0.06.
But relatively in that ballpark David that is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more detail and then hopefully a good question that's more thoughtful.
How long are you hedged for in 2013? So in terms of commodity hedging David at this point in time we're approximately 75% covered for 2013.
And just for reference compared to this time last year we're about 70% covered.
So we've got a little bit more coverage as we're moving into 2013.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
My final question John is really going to China and this really interesting business venture joint venture you've entered into with Wilmar.
In your '13 plan that you've outlined what's the impact from this joint venture? When do we start to see real sales activities? And what's the -- can you give us some of the meat as to what we should be expecting from Wilmar? It seems to be pretty exciting but I don't think you really commented today.
David we are excited about the long-term potential of the joint venture in China.
I think in the near term it's going to have a very limited impact.
Remember the joint venture includes both Cereal and Pringles so we have -- we do have a -- a Pringles opportunity is probably nearer in.
Cereal is going to take more time but you'll see some beginning of shipments in sales and advertising and so in 2013 from the joint venture.
But it will pick up speed over time.
I would not expect that to have a material impact to our results in the next 2 or 3 years.
And our next question is from Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In your comments I think you said that the U.S.
Cereal business had a strong inventory build in fourth quarter ahead of the resolution program.
But just to be clear does that mean that the shipments will be necessarily a little bit lower in the first quarter because of that? Or is that really just in anticipation of a good program? And then a follow-up please.
Well we did ship a little bit more than we consumed in Q4.
There's a gap between the 2 numbers.
That does reflect both the new innovation going in as well as the strong promotional merchandising that we have in the first quarter.
If you remember last year with Resolution which is a big program behind Special K we really made the Snacks business the hero of that event.
In this first quarter this year we made Cereal the hero of that event.
As a result we saw a little bit more Cereal inventory going in advance of those events.
Whilst it is early days in the consumption data we are seeing about 3.5% increase in units consumption behind Kellogg cereals in the first part of the year.
So we do expect that to flow through.
So we're not giving guidance on Cereal sales growth in the first quarter.
I will say that we continue to get good orders from retailers in January.
We continue to ship well.
So I'm not seeing anything that gives me too much concern.
Research Division</strong> I'm glad you said that John because one of my concerns was that your #1 competitor normally launches products in the summer and fall.
It looks like they're pushing that out more towards January February.
Have you seen any more intensity in terms of competition in terms of new products? And could that actually help the category rather than hurt your market share? I think if more players drive the innovation harder and the brand building harder I think the category will respond and grow.
It's always an intensely competitive category.
I don't think it's any more competitive than what it has been historically.
And the next question is from Jonathan Feeney of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig in just on a detail of the cost inflation outlook because it seems -- it would seem that in the fourth quarter you got and even some in the third quarter got some significantly favorable moves in your apparent cost basket.
And I wanted to know does the inflation forecast -- I guess could you give us some more detail about it and how your confidence in that inflation forecast might have changed and whether that forecast has moved in the past 6 months? And specifically would you say you're more or less than average hedged at this point given your behavior the last 6 months? Yes a couple of things on that Jonathan.
First of all you may recall at the Investor Day I talked about approximately 6% cost inflation and now we're seeing 5%.
So we have seen a little bit of movement down.
I mentioned just a little while ago that we're about 75% covered at this point in time for 2013 whereas at this time last year we were about 70% covered for 2012.
I think the other thing that people don't always recognize is we have our domestic business but also our international business.
We are seeing inflation in the international business as well as the domestic business.
One last thing to keep in mind is we have hedged positions that roll off as we enter a year so sometimes we see inflation as a result of those more favorable positions rolling off and the new cost trend rolling into our business.
And the next question is from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So on international in Latin America Asia in particular can you just -- just wanted to get your updated thoughts on how far along into the process of ramping up investment spend in these regions we are on the base business not necessarily on Pringles after the double-digit growth that you had in brand building this year? And I guess perhaps just what are your investment priorities in those regions for 2013 and should we start to see a bit more operating leverage or stabilization in margins there? As you look at Latin America and Asia Pacific they both represent strong growth potential regions for the company.
So they're in areas we think about our brand-building investment where we're likely to push a little bit more versus other parts of the company.
I'd say both of them we expect to see brand building growing at or above the rate of sales growth.
Within Latin America we have made a fairly significant investment in Brazil and we see us continuing to do that.
So that's one part of Latin America that we believe has more potential for us as a company.
And then in Asia Pacific we've spoken before about India South Africa and even some markets in Southeast Asia now that we believe have tremendous potential.
So I think the goal for both of those regions is to accelerate their top line growth.
They'll give us the operating leverage to invest disproportionately back in brand building and still make the economics work and continue to drive profit in both regions over time.
We have a question from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John or Michael just wondering if you can speak a bit to the evolution of the Frozen Foods case going forward.
I think first off I guess you're seeing more momentum there in terms of shelf space increases for the breakfast day part breakfast snacking.
And then secondly thinking about 2013 innovation Flatbread Eggo coming through again can you talk a little bit about how retailers are managing the category going forward in terms of breakfast versus snacking and other day parts? Yes John it's Michael.
Thanks for the question.
I think as we look at our business we have as we talked about very very strong categories in which we compete and just really good heritage not only in Eggo brands.
And then when you look at the veggie business just really on trend categories.
So of course retailers are always going to look at productivity of segments and we think we're positioned in 2 very productive segments.
So we anticipate continued strong performance.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Ron just any thoughts on the potential for devaluation there in Venezuela and how that may impact the P&amp;L this year.
Yes.
So keep in mind Venezuela is a relatively small part of our business.
From a revenue standpoint somewhere between 1% and 2% of our total revenues.
And of course we trade in a number of currencies around the world.
We do have within our estimates a reasonable weakening of the currency in Venezuela.
It's included in our guidance.
And obviously we'll discuss if there is devaluation and it is materially different versus our estimates.
Okay.
Everyone thanks very much for joining us today.
We're available obviously for follow-ups as always.
Please give us a call with any other questions.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Laura.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us today for a review of our first quarter 2013 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant our President and CEO; Ron Dissinger our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Huff President of our U.S.
Specialty Channels business.
We've been highlighting different business units over the last year and Brian is here to discuss Specialty Channels in a little more detail.
In addition due to changes in how we account for pensions and other post-retirement benefits we've provided additional detail in this presentation and in the earnings press release.
The press release and slides to support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kellogcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
So for further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday May 6 and the call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
We're pleased to announce a good first quarter and start to the year.
Reported sales growth was strong at 12%.
Internal net sales growth was 2.2% broadly in line with our expectations and most of our businesses around the world posted solid underlying results so -- as we will discuss in more detail later.
Underlying operating profit growth was also broadly in line with expectations as we faced the highest level of inflation that we expect to see all year.
We're on track for the full year and as Ron said in his guidance at CAGNY there were a few items that we anticipated would have an impact on the first quarter.
First we expect around $80 million of COGS inflation net of COGS savings in 2013 and we saw more than $80 million just in the first quarter.
So this obviously had a significant impact.
Secondly the devaluation in Venezuela also had a meaningful impact and was larger than we expected.
And finally the process of closing a manufacturing plant in Australia continued in the first quarter which led to higher year-over-year costs.
So we expect more balanced results as the year progresses.
Now let's turn to Slide 4 and a review of Pringles.
We continue to see very strong performance from the business in the first quarter.
In fact organic sales growth of the total Pringles brand was approximately 7%.
In all the regions around the world Pringles continues to do well.
And as we've mentioned before the commercial programs we've implemented since the acquisition have been very well received by consumers.
In the U.S.
and Canada we relaunched Stix which is off to a good start.
In Europe we saw good growth in much of the region and we saw high single-digit underlying growth in the Asia Pacific business as well.
The integration continues to go well.
We have converted Asia and Europe to our systems and the transition went very smoothly.
We are currently in the process of conversions -- converting in the Americas.
We're on schedule to complete the integration over the next few months and we remain confident that we'll recognize the synergies we expected for 2013.
And talent retention has also been very good.
As you saw at CAGNY and our Investor Day we now have former Pringles employees in very senior roles within the organization.
And finally on Pringles we'll have some new capacity coming online in 2014 which will add to the excellent work that's being done to improve the capacity in our existing facilities.
So we're on track to achieve our full year guidance.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ron for more details.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
First of all I'd like to point out that our underlying results exclude the impact of mark-to-market adjustments.
Underlying internal results exclude the impact of mark-to-market adjustment acquisitions divestitures integration costs and the impact from foreign currency translation.
We're also providing details of underlying earnings per share excluding integration costs again this quarter.
Slide 5 shows the first quarter's financial results.
Reported sales growth was 12.2%.
Internal sales growth was 2.2% and included growth across all 4 geographic regions of the world.
Underlying reported operating profit decreased by 3.5% including Pringles integration costs.
Reported operating profit was flat excluding integration costs.
Underlying internal operating profit decreased by 5.8%.
As we told you previously the first quarter included most of our net cost inflation for the year which is why we had expected that underlying internal operating profit would be down in the first quarter.
Underlying earnings per share excluding integration costs was $0.99 broadly in line with our expectations.
This includes an impact of approximately $0.03 from the devaluation in Venezuela.
So without the onetime impact of the devaluation our underlying earnings per share would have been $1.02.
In addition we were lapping a $0.05 benefit in the first quarter of last year that resulted from the interest rate hedges related to the Pringles acquisition.
Overall our results are in line with our expectations and we remain on track for the year.
Slide 6 shows the composition of the first quarter sales growth.
As I mentioned reported sales growth was 12.2% and internal sales growth was 2.2%.
Volume increased by 1.4 points in the quarter and was broad based.
We grew volume in every region of the world.
We also recognized price and mix improvements of 0.8 points of the quarter and we expect a better balance of volume and price mix this year.
On a global basis we grew both cereal and snacks.
In addition the U.S.
frozen and specialty businesses had another strong quarter.
As you might imagine the addition of Pringles made a significant contribution of 10.8 points to reported sales growth.
And as John mentioned the performance of the Pringles business has been consistently better than we had anticipated.
Finally as you can see currency translation reduced sales growth by 0.8 points in the quarter.
Now let's look at Slide 7 which shows our cost of goods sold net inflation for the full year.
We saw more than $80 million of net cost inflation in the first quarter which is more than that total net inflation we expect for the full year.
As you can see on the chart we expect continued net inflation in the second quarter and then net deflation in the second half.
Obviously this shaping had a significant impact on our gross profit and our gross margin in Q1.
Our underlying reported gross margin declined by 330 basis points in the quarter.
Overall the net inflation and gross margin performance were consistent with our expectations.
We are more than 85% covered on commodities and have good visibility into our cost structure for the year.
The inclusion of the Pringles business continued to have an impact on margins.
In the first quarter Pringles lowered total company gross margin by 80 basis points.
We are continuing our work to increase margins and we have already seen improvement.
Our current outlook on the Pringles business for the year indicates gross margin improvement of approximately 50 basis points.
In addition we have executed initiatives to increase capacity which will also have a positive impact on margins over time.
Slide 8 details some of our brand-building activity.
We continue to invest in advertising and other equity-building initiatives in the quarter.
As you know brand building along with innovation is at the heart of our sustainable growth operating model.
We know that when we invest in the business and provide value through our brands and new products consumers will respond.
You can see on the chart just some of the activity that we're executing in the first half.
This isn't all we're doing around the world but it gives you an idea of the focus that we have.
We also strive to be more efficient and effective with our investment dollars.
This includes shifting to digital media on brands where it is appropriate leveraging co-branding opportunities and assessing and maximizing the return on investment on all the activities that constitute our brand-building investment.
We have increased the way we leverage advertising copy across multiple markets.
We've decreased redundancies between agencies renegotiated some agreements and driven broad-based efficiencies in working media.
Looking forward though we expect brand building to grow in the second quarter due to the timing of our innovation launches.
Slide 9 shows the quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of our regions.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 3.5%.
We saw strong mid-single-digit growth in our Morning Foods Specialty and North America Other segment which includes Frozen Foods in Canada.
And together these businesses posted 6% operating profit growth.
However our Snacks business posted a double-digit decline due to sales performance and because it recognized a majority of the region's cost pressure.
We are taking actions to improve our performance including the launch of innovation.
And of course the effect of inflation will decline as we proceed through the year.
Consequently we expect that results will improve during the second half of the year.
In Europe we saw good top line growth of 2.6% in the quarter and expect continued growth over the remainder of the year.
But the region faced commodity inflation and made some investments in supply chain to relaunch new Special K food in key markets.
As a result internal operating profit in Europe was flat in the first quarter.
Obviously economic conditions continue to be difficult on the continent and this also impacted our results.
Internal operating profit in Latin America decreased by 5.6% due to commodity inflation timing of certain supply chain costs as well as brand-building investments in the region.
And this was on top of a strong 11% comp in the first quarter of last year.
And Asia Pacific posted a decrease in internal operating profit of 30.6% in the quarter.
But as you know we have a project underway in Australia to close a manufacturing plant.
Slide 10 shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was comparable year-over-year.
Capital spending in the quarter was $102 million up nearly $40 million from last year.
You may recall that I mentioned on our fourth quarter conference call that we saw some capital spending shift from 2012 into 2013.
So free cash flow was $236 million a decrease versus the first quarter of last year due to the shift in capital spending.
Share repurchases this quarter were $44 million lower than proceeds from options which were $259 million.
And as we have said we expect to repurchase shares to the extent of options proceeds.
Now let's look at Slide 11 which shows our guidance for 2013.
And our outlook for the year remains consistent with previous guidance.
We still anticipate that reported net sales will increase by approximately 7% and that internal net sales growth will be approximately 3%.
As we told you last quarter our internal net sales growth depends on the phasing of Pringles sales across the first and second halves.
Our latest outlook is consistent with our original guidance.
Our estimates for cost inflation are unchanged at approximately 5% and we continue to expect cost savings of around 4%.
As I mentioned earlier we saw the majority of the year's net cost inflation in Q1 but we will also see inflation in the second quarter and we expect the third quarter and fourth quarters to be deflationary.
We are largely covered on our commodities for the year and have good visibility into our cost structure.
It's also important to note that our productivity savings rate increases as we progress through the year with less than 4% in the front half and more than 4% in the back half.
We continue to expect that reported operating profit growth will be slightly higher than reported earnings per share growth of 5% to 7%.
You'll remember that this is because of some favorable onetime items below operating profit that benefited earnings per share growth last year.
Also recall that our guidance provided on the fourth quarter call included a $0.02 headwind from currency translation.
Currency rates were volatile in the first quarter and we saw as much as a $0.03 to $0.05 headwind for the year.
And the Venezuela devaluation was slightly more than we thought for the year.
The impact of dilution is also a little greater than we anticipated as the result of the strong share price.
Now depending on what happens over the rest of the year these 2 items could put pressure on our outlook.
However we have plans below the line to offset the impact.
Obviously currency translation will remain volatile so we'll update you regarding the effect of the year as it progresses.
The underlying tax rate for 2013 is still expected to be approximately 30% and our estimate for interest expense is between $230 million and $240 million.
Turning to Pringles we still anticipate $0.12 to $0.14 of integration cost for the year and we remain on track to deliver synergies of $50 million to $75 million in 2013.
Annual cash flow is expected to be between $1.1 million and $1.2 billion with capital spending still anticipated to be slightly more than 4% of sales.
As some of you have asked I'd like to remind you that this does include the capital investment in the Pringles business we discussed with you previously.
Finally just a quick word on the second quarter.
We expect strong reported sales growth and solid comparable sales growth but we do anticipate that there will be a continued impact from the softness in the U.S.
Snacks business.
And we believe that we are not likely to gain traction until the second half of the year.
We continue to expect good reported operating profit growth including the benefit of 2 months of Pringles profits but the shape of net inflation combined with investment to support innovation launches and the softness in the U.S.
Snacks business could result in internal operating profit being relatively flat in the second quarter.
We expect better profit growth in the second half due to the net cost deflation and the Pringles synergies I discussed earlier.
As was the case last quarter our guidance for operating profit and earnings per share excludes the impact of mark-to-market adjustments.
And one last housekeeping matter.
Our Kashi business was previously reported as a component of our U.S.
Morning Foods and Kashi operating segment.
Earlier this year we folded the respective Kashi cereal and Kashi snacks businesses into our Morning Foods and U.S.
Snacks operating segments to better align strategy and execution.
The changes to results are not material but we have provided comparable 2012 data in Appendix 6 of this presentation.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for a discussion of our segment.
Thanks Ron.
Slide 12 shows the internal net sales growth performance of Kellogg North America.
As you can see the first quarter's results remained solid at 1.7% growth.
Slide 13 shows the performance of the U.S.
Morning Foods segment.
Internal sales growth was 1.6% in Q1.
Our cereal business gained 0.3 of a point of share in the first quarter.
This was driven in part by Special K.
We've had good innovation on the brand including Chocolatey Strawberry and a restage of Special K Protein.
All of this led to a very successful resolution program.
And in fact during Q1 Special K saw increased share consumption and household penetration.
Other brands also did well including Mini-Wheats and Frosted Flakes both of which gained share on strong rates of consumption.
Although category growth improved sequentially during the quarter it has been a little bit slower than we would like in recent periods.
While the kids segment has been doing well the adult segment has been lagging.
Special K activity I mentioned is helping and we're also doing our part with innovation.
We have a lot of activity planned for the middle of the year that will address this further and which will be supported with brand building.
The new products include Raisin Bran with Omega-3 Multi-Grain Special K Kashi GOLEAN Vanilla and Kashi Cheer Heart to Heart some of which are pictured on the slide.
In addition we're also expanding the definition of our categories.
In the breakfast segment the drinkable breakfast products you saw at our Investor Day in November are now expanding distribution and we've also got hot cereal planned for introduction at midyear.
These are both exciting steps for us and should also help drive adult consumption in the broader category.
And finally Pop-Tarts again had a strong quarter with nearly 5% consumption growth and share growth.
We also have some great innovation coming with 2 varieties of peanut butter-flavored Pop-Tarts launching in June.
These are great products which we are sure will contribute to the brand's continued success.
Now let's turn to Slide 14 which details the internal net sales performance of the U.S.
Snacks segment.
The business posted an internal sales decline of 1.7% in the quarter.
The cracker business posted a slight net sales decline although the 4 main brands Cheez-It Town House Club and Special K in combination posted low single-digit sales growth.
And remember that crackers were lapping a difficult high single-digit comparison in the first quarter last year.
The sales performance this year was also partially driven by the timing of innovation.
We've got increased innovation launching later in the year and expect this to drive better performance.
The cookie business declined in the first quarter due in part to a decline in 100 Calorie packs and the timing of promotions.
The wholesome snacks business posted 3% sales growth and we saw good growth in the business from innovation including Special K Pastry Crisps and Nutri-Grain Fruit Crunch.
In fact the whole Nutri-Grain brand is growing as a result of the effective support and we've got good commercial plans and more innovation planned for the whole segment at midyear.
As you know our Pringles business is not included in internal sales.
If we'd owned Pringles during the first quarter of last year net sales for the total snack segment would have been approximately flat due to the strong performance of Pringles.
We gained nearly 1 point of share in the potato chip category in the quarter as we benefited from strong commercial activity.
Sales increased at a double-digit rate driven by distribution gains and good advertising and growth was broad based.
The Pringles brand is very responsive to investment and activity and we've got more planned for the balance of the year.
So we're not happy with the recent performance of the Snack business.
Some of the weaknesses is due to timing but core results could be better.
The team is working hard and we have plans for improved innovation and support.
The business will likely remain challenging in the first half but we're optimistic that results will improve over time.
Slide 15 shows the performance of the North America Other segment which includes the Canadian and Frozen Food businesses.
The segment posted 7.4% internal net sales growth in the first quarter.
In Canada we saw low single-digit internal net sales growth.
Cereal crackers frozen foods and the new breakfast beverages all contributed.
Special K also gained share in Canada in Q1 due to a strong New Year's resolution program and good innovation much like we saw in the U.S.
In addition other innovation contributed to sales growth such as Krave Special K Granola Nutri-Grain Bakes and Special K Crisps all did well.
In the Frozen Foods business we saw very strong double-digit growth in the frozen breakfast segment due to good results from innovation and gains in distribution.
The new Special K Flatbread Sandwiches are doing very well and are driving most of the growth in the segment and Eggo waffles also grew in the quarter.
We also saw growth in the veggie category in the quarter.
Last year we advertised Morningstar Farms in the important summer season and saw good lift as a result.
Because of this we're beginning the support even earlier this year and have strong innovation planned.
Slide 16 shows the net sales performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
As you can see we posted 3.4% growth in the first quarter.
We're fortunate to have Brian Huff here today to discuss the Specialty Channels business in more detail.
You all know Brian from last year's Analyst Day.
Brian is a 22-year veteran of Kellogg.
He started with the company in 1991 in sales and became President of our U.S.
Specialty Channels business in 2009.
So with that I'll turn it over to Brian to give you more detail.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
I wanted to start today with a few slides to provide texture regarding the Specialty business and how we leverage and manage our portfolio across diverse channels.
Specialty Channels is comprised of several distinct channels in multiple business segments representing over $1 billion in annual net sales.
The 2 largest components of the business are Foodservice and the convenience and gas channel our go-to-market model focused on business-to-business channels specifically venues and customers catering to away-from-home consumption.
As you can see on Slide 18 we have a tremendous foundation for growth with the largest share across most of our key categories and channels including Foodservice Convenience and Vending.
This solid foundation provides us great potential for further expansion and growth.
If you'll turn to Slide 19 you'll see the detail of the categories in which we compete.
As you might imagine we compete in the cereal snacks veggie food and hot breakfast categories.
Kellogg's  strategy is to focus on the unique characteristics of the various Away From Home venues and to adapt and innovate across our portfolio to bring our brands and food to life.
It's this combination of a strong and diverse product portfolio and channel focus that provides us with the ability to better serve our customers.
Slide 20 provides a brief history of the Specialty Channels business.
As you can see our Specialty business has evolved over time through a combination of acquisition and innovation.
This progression has broadened our base and provided expansion opportunities across categories and venues.
Our 2008 acquisition of Gardenburger in combination with Morningstar Farms was pivotal as it provided us a "center of the plate" offering that is important to success in Away From Home venues.
Most recently our extensions into savory snacks and beverages will provide substantial opportunity for growth and expansion across all of these channels.
Now let's turn to Slide 21.
At the core of our strategy is the expansion of reach and brand impressions across the consumer landscape.
The channels in which we compete provide Kellogg with significant opportunities to do just that with over 2 million points of consumer intercept.
We see opportunities in many of the venues and believe that our expanded portfolio of brands and Kellogg's unique offerings have great consumer relevance in these locations.
Slide 22 shows the longer-term sales performance of our business and you can see we've experienced good and consistent net sales growth over the past several years.
Some of the key business drivers of this success have been excellent volumetric growth in the Convenience and Foodservice segment; robust innovation across the business; winning in K-12 schools; growth in the frozen breakfast category; expanding the footprint of our veggie foods business; and driving our largest brand Special K in single-serve options and offerings.
So starting with Slide 23 I'd like to discuss some of the opportunities that we see in the business and some of the ways in which we think we'll drive future growth.
We see significant opportunities for expansion into new categories for us specifically savory snacks and beverages.
These 2 categories represent huge revenue across the industry and are currently underrepresented at Kellogg.
Bringing great brands such as Pringles Kellogg's and Special K is a huge opportunity for us as well as our customers.
We will continue to drive revenue growth by focusing on 3 key areas: by driving and expanding our core brands through incremental marketplace reach establishing a single-serve beverage business and driving increased placement of savory snacks.
While all of those opportunities are exciting Slide 24 details some of the potential that we have as a result of the acquisition of Pringles.
Pringles has been a great addition to our brand lineup and provides a strong anchor in a sandwich accompaniment that is critical in Away From Home venues.
In combination with Special K and Cheez-It these 3 strong brands bring diversity and variety to the category and provide accretive revenue growth for us and our customers.
Pictured on Slide 24 is a merchandising display that features all 3 brands in single-serve packaging.
We utilize this in multiple venues including healthcare convenience college university and business and industry.
Slide 25 highlights our convenience and gas channel which as you can see is one of the fastest-growing channels in North America which is fueled by product expansion and innovation.
The channel continues its transformation and is improving its food offerings.
This aligns extremely well with our brands.
Special K is our fastest-growing brand in this channel with excellent growth in protein bars chips and beverages.
In the future our strategy will continue to focus on expanding our core portfolio and reach and investing in innovation to drive continued category growth.
Now let's turn to Slide 26 to review our K-12 school business.
Keeping our brands relevant and available to the 55 million K-12 students in the U.S.
is a priority for Kellogg.
We continue to invest in innovation and renovation of our brands to meet and even exceed USDA guidelines.
Our recent success in this channel has been our Eggo mini pancakes and waffles.
These products have allowed us to expand in the frozen breakfast category and bring one of our best-selling equities to K-12 schools.
We know that children who start their day with breakfast perform better in school during the day and we're committed to this important business and the role our brands can play.
Slide 27 shows the opportunities that we have in veggie foods across the Away From Home channels.
Center-of-the-plate offerings are critical to this business and we have 2 powerhouse brands in Gardenburger and Morningstar Farms that have been doing extremely well.
The veggie category remains on trend with consumers and offers us long-term sustainable growth and is currently underrepresented in Away From Home outlets.
Consumers continue to seek meat alternatives and we have terrific foods and brands that fill this marketplace need across our channels.
Many growth opportunities remain in both commercial and non-commercial locations and our strategy centers around the expansion of distribution and reach in both of these areas.
So in summary on Slide 28 I'd like to say that we remain very committed to and excited about our great Specialty Channels business.
We have a long history of strong growth and we've seen acceleration in recent years.
We have #1 share positions in most of our businesses and categories.
We've now got the power of the Pringles brand and we've got great products in exciting new categories like savory snacks and beverages.
And we have more great innovation planned for introduction in this business which have great economics.
I am very proud of what the team has achieved and would like to thank them all for all of their hard work.
Our success is due to them and we're all committed to continuing our focus on these important channels businesses customers and consumers.
And now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Brian.
Now let's turn to Slide 29 and our international businesses.
The European business posted internal net sales growth of 2.6% in Q1 which continued the improved results we've seen since the back half of last year and we gained category share in a number of countries in the region during the quarter.
We saw excellent growth in the U.K.
the largest business in the region as we gained cereal category share and posted strong double-digit sales growth in the Kellogg's snack business.
Our Crunchy Nut brand saw a very good performance driven by increased media and innovation.
Other innovation also contributed including Special K Cracker Crisps and Biscuit Moments.
On the continent our French cereal and snacks businesses performed well and grew share and we saw improved performance in Italy behind the restage of our Special K cereal brand.
This initiative will roll out across the rest of the region in the coming months.
However Spain continues to be the most difficult country in Europe for us driven by economic conditions.
We are taking a number of actions in this business including increasing commercial activities and changes to packaging and pack sizes.
This business will remain challenging but we're optimistic regarding its long-term potential.
Like most regions around the world Europe posted strong Pringles consumption growth in the quarter and this was achieved while the business was executing the integration into Kellogg's systems.
So a very good performance from the team in Europe.
Internal net sales increased by 0.3% in Asia Pacific in the quarter although we saw strong 4% growth in consumption across the region.
The difference was driven by a trade inventory reduction in Australia.
However underlying performance was strong in Australia where we gained 2 points of category share in cereal and 1.5 points in snacks.
We launched breakfast drinks in Australia earlier than we did in the U.S.
which also contributed to the business's sales growth.
Sales in India and Southeast Asia both increased at a double-digit rate and Pringles also posted strong growth in the region with underlying sales up at a high single-digit rate.
We saw some softness in results in South Africa due to timing and in South Korea due to the competitive environment but we're pleased with the underlying performance in the region and expect good results across the balance of the year.
The Latin American business posted 7.4% internal sales growth as a result of strong price/mix gains and better volume performance.
Most of the businesses in the region contributed to the overall growth.
Sales growth in Mexico lagged the average in the quarter but cereal consumption in Mexico was strong and regained share in the quarter.
You'll remember that we were lapping an inventory build in the first half of last year in Mexico which made comparisons this quarter more difficult.
We also face difficult comparisons in the second quarter but they'll get easier in the second half of the year.
We also saw good growth elsewhere in Latin America.
The Brazilian business posted good sales growth as a result of both price realization and improving volume performance as we increased distribution.
The Venezuelan business also did very well in a difficult economic environment.
Now let's turn to Slide 30 and the summary.
The first quarter was a good start to the year with good overall sales growth.
Overall operating profit results were also as anticipated and include the most significant net inflation we'll see all year.
We saw continued strong performance from Pringles in most regions of the world and the integration continues to go smoothly.
And we are on track for the full year.
So finally I'd like to thank the 30 000 Kellogg employees around the world for all their hard work and dedication.
And we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a sense of what level of upfront costs you're expecting for the full year.
Given that you're coming off a year of slightly below-average investment there should we expect to see an above-normal level of upfront cost this year particularly with the benign inflation outlook you're guiding us to in the second half? Matthew our upfront costs are very consistent in 2013 with what we spent in 2012.
So we're somewhere in the range of $0.10 to $0.12 of upfront cost for the year.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up on Europe.
I believe in the prior year you had a business disruption in the first quarter which was quickly resolved and I'd assume that comparison flattered this quarter's results in Europe to some extent.
As we're revisiting our assumptions for Europe for the balance of the year can you give us a sense for what underlying trends would have been in Q1 excluding this factor? We feel very good about our performance in Europe in the first quarter.
It was actually in line with our expectations if not slightly ahead of what we had expect to deliver in Q1.
If you look in the U.K.
we actually did see some strong growth and see share gains in both cereal and in snacks.
Same is true in France.
We saw gains in cereal and snacks share.
We do have some softness in Southern Spain -- sorry in Spain and Italy continuing.
Even though we gained share in Italy we continue to see weakness in Spain.
So if you look at Europe in the first quarter it was very much in line with our expectations.
The operating profit margin is very similar to what we expect to see for the entire year.
We're still tracking to grow sales and profits across 2013 and we're happy to say that Pringles integration is continuing to go very well also.
So while I agree it's a weak comparison we're actually tracking right where we thought we would track and on target for the year.
And the next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You portrayed the input cost inflation being a picture of 2 halves with the second half of '13 being down and it seems to mirror the grains inflation that we would suspect many food companies will be experiencing.
Is that -- does that seem to be setting up -- barring some sort of major weather shocks come from -- in this grain crop coming up for a down into '14 picture? And if so if this feels a lot like the second half of '09 where all participants and even the retailers are sensing that this is a rather benign period how do you see the competitive picture shaping up? And do you see participants sort of dialing up their promotions or perhaps people are acting more rational than they did this time in the cycle last time? Matthew first on the grains.
It's a bit difficult for us to predict into -- or sorry David on the grains difficult for us to predict on the grains going into 2014.
We've got 2 crops that will need to be planted and harvested.
We do have good visibility though to 2013.
As I mentioned we're largely covered across our grains at this point in time so I feel very comfortable with our outlook on input inflation for this year.
David I can't talk to what the competitive environment might be in the future but if you look at our results over the last few years we've come under pressure from increasing commodity prices.
So as we go into a more benign environment we'd hope to see margin improvement as we go forward from here.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick question on cereal.
I think you mentioned adult cereal being a little bit more sluggish than you would have liked.
Is your thinking about that category and the weakness that has seemed to persist -- are you getting any further thinking about why that category may not be as strong as one would have hoped this time in the pricing cycle? Yes.
I think if you look at the cereal category it is a little softer than what we would like it to be.
But you break it apart in different segments.
So kids we're actually growing in kids and the category is growing in kids.
In all family we're growing but the category is a little soft but we feel okay about where all family is.
It's really adults where the category and ourselves are both down about 5% in the first quarter and that's where the opportunity for future growth lies.
What is also interesting David is if you take the category and you break it up by income the category is actually growing with low-income consumers but is actually declining a little bit with high-income consumers.
So you boil it all down and say the big opportunity in the cereal category right now is high-income boomers.
And so what are we doing to address high-income boomers? We have innovation coming out this year around Raisin Bran Omega-3 Heart to Heart Cheer Special K Multi-Grain.
So we have a range of innovation targeted at those adult consumers plus we think we have a very strong adult portfolio between Special K Kashi Bear Naked.
And if we can get those brands all driving on all cylinders I think we can really drive all the adult consumption in the category.
And our next question will come from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask the flip side of the question on grains because -- I know it's early but we are seeing the latest plantings of corn in history really at this point.
So on the one hand it's early right and there's not much of a correlation between late plantings and higher corn prices and yields and so forth.
But on the other hand we're getting to a point where most analysts I think who are looking at corn say we have about 2 weeks left before it's time to get really concerned.
So I'm just wondering Ron what are your people seeing? What is your take on that? I know it won't affect you at all until 2014 at the earliest but when do you start maybe worrying about the late plantings and how that might affect your longer-term commodity outlook? It's difficult to predict.
Some of our folks have told us that years previous when there have been late plantings we've actually seen record harvest.
So it's difficult to predict Ken at this point in time.
Obviously we're going to continue to watch the markets.
And as you know we use -- take appropriate coverage when we think it's the right time.
So we'll provide guidance as we get into the fourth quarter call in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Nothing that you're overly concerned with yet at this point? Not at this time.
No.
And next we have a question from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I actually had a question for Brian.
Brian you showed a slide in your part of the presentation with joint marketing or displays for products like Pringles and Special K.
Can you talk a little bit on how such a display is actually driving sales for the brands? Because in my view the Pringles consumer and the Special K consumer they're different people.
The products have different brand equities different attributes.
So I'm just trying to understand how this sales boost really works? Yes.
No thanks for the question too by the way.
As we're looking at it it's fairly early in our stages of -- with our Pringles integration and our strategy which truly is about ubiquitous distribution as we're looking at our business and building our commercial plans.
But as we've seen here in the short term we're getting significant growth and revenue from not only the Pringles business which in the first quarter was up over 30% on an organic basis but also the halo effect that that's having on Special K as well as our Cheez-It business.
And truly it all comes down to choice and consumer choice.
So we're very excited that we have a great diversity and variety of product out in the marketplace that really do help drive that consumer choice and meet multiple consumer needs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is the benefit coming from the halo effect or just from the fact that you have an -- for lack of a better word an excuse to put up these displays that are more prominent in the store? Well we're always looking for excuses to put up more displays and showcase our brands.
But what I will tell you is a big piece of what we're seeing is having our brands out there in front of the consumers.
We have dynamite brands.
And the strength of Pringles Special K as well as our Cheez-It brands the more that we can showcase and focus them to the consumers the better off our business performs.
And the next question is from Greg Hessler of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My question is just on future capital allocation given the buyback announcement today.
It looks like you're reducing debt through the quarter.
Are you planning for further debt reduction? And if so how do you expect to balance this with the buyback plan? And then I have one follow-up.
Sure.
In relation to the billion-dollar buyback plan that we just announced I wouldn't read anything into that.
Our expectations for 2013 are very consistent with what we've communicated previously.
We intend to buy back shares to the extent of options proceeds.
The billion-dollar authorization does give us the opportunity to in 2014 buy back shares.
The authorization goes through the end of April at this point in time.
So our capital allocation remains the same.
From the end of the second quarter last year around the time that we purchased the Pringles business we reduced our debt by about $700 million by the end of the first quarter here.
So expectation is very consistent with what we've previously communicated.
Research Division</strong> And then it looks like leverage is still somewhat elevated relative to pre-Pringles levels.
Is it the company's goal to continue to reduce debt and try to hold on to the high BBB credit rating? Or are you kind of looking at it and with rates where they are today maybe a mid-BBB is a better target? How do you guys think about the overall credit rating? At this time we like our BBB+ credit rating and our intent is to try to maintain that credit rating and pay down our debt associated with the Pringles acquisition.
And the next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick clarification and then a broader question.
Ron on the underlying gross margin down 330 basis points is that putting the mark -- is that impacting the mark-to-market impact all in gross margin? Or is it broken between gross margin and SG&amp;A? The mark-to-market impact -- first of all we mark-to-market on pensions at the end of the year; and commodities obviously we'll do quarterly.
We did see some hangover from the mark-to-market on pensions that carried into the first quarter.
There's a portion of that that relates to our manufacturing facilities.
It gets capitalized into inventory and it comes back out in the first quarter of the year.
Very consistent with what happened in 2012.
In terms of the impact to our gross margin performance the mark-to-market really had very little impact.
The 2 key items that impacted our gross margin performance Andrew were the net inflation.
That was more than 200 basis points of impact.
And in addition to that the dilution from the Pringles acquisition having that for the 3 months of 2013 versus it not being in our numbers last year.
There were a few other small items that related to upfront costs in our Asia Pacific region and I talked about the investments in supply chain to relaunch Special K in Europe as well.
The margin performance is very consistent with our plan.
The other thing I would mention our outlook for the entire year also is very consistent.
So we communicated previously that we expected for the year to be down around 50 basis points.
That's essentially driven by the dilution from Pringles.
Our underlying or base business gross margin is expected to be flat in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then John if we look at just the organic sales growth in Morning Foods in the quarter I think it was up 1.7%.
And I think in the fourth quarter it was up a little over 6%.
And I know some of that was a buy-in in the cereal arena.
But it certainly at least sequentially decelerated despite pricing coming in quite a bit relative to where it was in the fourth quarter.
I guess the big sort of industry thesis but I like as well is as pricing wanes volume kind of starts to come back and that was the big impact last year on volume.
I guess -- are you concerned that we're either not seeing that play out or just not seeing it play out as dramatically as I think everyone including the industry would like to see? Trying to get a sense of if I'm reading that right.
Well if I look within the cereal category as I said before we're actually seeing strength with low-income consumers strength with kids.
We're doing well in all family categories also.
It's really adult where we are seeing weakness it's high-income adults.
I don't think they're really that price-sensitive.
It's not about -- as prices come up we'd normally expect volumes naturally to follow with high-income boomers.
I think the real issue there is our innovation and the innovation in the category needs to be more nutrition and benefit-oriented and quite frankly less about pricing and merchandising.
And that's the opportunity I think we have as a company; I think the category has as well.
And I think the more we drive into that the more we're going to grow the business.
And in addition to that when you think about the weakness in the cereal category we're also doing things to give people the benefits of cereals outside that normal definition of ready-to-eat cereal.
So we have Kellogg's To Go Shakes and we have the Breakfast Biscuits and we have also hot cereal in there as well.
That's also all driving our cereal consumption but not getting captured in the uptake  [ph] data.
If you look in Q1 our Morning Foods sales growth was up 1.6% 1.7% and the consumption for cereal is actually down.
Our cereal sales are actually down a little bit in Q1 and the difference there is very strong Pop-Tarts performance in the first quarter.
That's what's driving the difference between consumption and shipments in Q1.
And the next question comes from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So within the U.S.
Snacks business I think there was a comment that there were some timing issues and the core results were somewhat weak.
Could you maybe just give us a little bit of an elaboration on that? And is that likely to persist into the next quarter? Yes Alexia.
Snacks' top line was down 1.7% in the quarter.
If you dig within that look at the different businesses wholesome snacks actually performed pretty well with shipments up about 3%.
We held share and we had some good strength behind Special K and Nutri-Grain both up double digits.
So we feel okay about wholesome snacks in Q1.
On crackers the sales were down slightly but we were lapping a big 9% growth in the first quarter last year.
We had a huge Special K Cracker Chips resolution program.
As you look in 2013 our innovation is more in the second quarter and we have 2 large new products coming out with Cheez-It Zings and Town House Pita.
So we expect a much better cracker performance in Q2 as we go through the year.
So that's really more of the timing if you like within crackers.
The one business that's probably softer than we'd like is cookies where consumption was down about 5.5% in the first quarter.
Within that we do have more innovation coming out in Q2.
We have 2 "simply made" SKUs coming out a butter cookie and a chocolate chip cookie which are basically just 8 ingredients more homemade.
Plus we have a new pack design and we have improved merchandising plans.
So I think we've got programs in place on cookies.
That's the one area where we're a little weaker than we would like to be from a consumption perspective.
The good news is Pringles continues to do extremely well.
In fact the Pringles consumption when you include Stix was up 13% in the first quarter.
So a very strong performance there.
To answer your question about phasing in the year probably a little bit better in Q2 and much better as we go through the back half of the year because that innovation will start to hit towards the back part of Q2.
And next we have a question from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess just kind of following up on Alexia's question.
You said I think Ron that the bulk of the impact of inflation in the quarter was in snacks.
Did that limit your competitiveness to the extent that Mondelez is getting more aggressive in cookies and crackers? No.
We did see more input inflation in Snacks in the first quarter but that didn't have any impact on our end-market plans necessarily Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just another question.
You answered -- I guess it was more of a bond-oriented question around the buyback as being nothing different.
But you also indicated that if currency in general and the hit from the Venezuelan devaluation as well as -- I guess it was somewhat higher shares due to the stock price and the dilution that you could offset that and had some flexibility? Doesn't that go against what you just said about the difference in the repo? Not necessarily.
I mean we're buying back shares to the extent of options proceeds.
So what I talked about was potentially a little bit more volatility in the currencies.
We said we'd seen as much as $0.03 to $0.05 of headwind but it depends upon how that plays out for the balance of the year.
And yes we are seeing a little bit more dilution as a result of a higher share price.
But we have plans and are working on items below the line to improve our performance.
Those items include tax and interest costs Eric.
So when you look at our tax rate I communicated we might be at approximately 30%.
That could come down slightly based on the plans that we're working on.
And same with interest costs.
I communicated we could be in a range of $230 million to $240 million.
We could be more towards the low end of that range based on the things that we're working on if we saw currencies continue to stay adverse.
Now what we've seen just over the past couple of weeks is currencies have -- international currencies have actually started to strengthen.
Research Division</strong> So what's the right share count that we should use for the year given your plans at the moment? We're still seeing 1 point to 2 points of impact from share dilution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a last question; I'll pass it on.
John I guess you've got this -- hopefully this bucket of deflation that will give you some flexibility in the second half.
You've put a lot of money back into the business in the last couple of years whether it's on the supply chain side or on the advertising and new products side.
I mean what's your sense in terms of putting that into promotion to drive sales or seeing a balance with a greater EBIT growth? Maybe you could talk a little bit about that and I'll pass it on.
Well Eric I think what we've said today is we're on track for our guidance for the year.
So we are looking for -- to deliver that guidance which has some margin expansion implicit in it particularly within the back half of the year.
And within that obviously we continue to be committed to driving our brands.
As I said before talking about the cereal category I think it's more to do with benefits to the consumers and in communicating those benefits rather than additional promotional activity or pricing and so on.
That would be an alternative way of investing the money.
And our next question is from Jonathan Feeney of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John you mentioned the opportunity here is in innovation at the high end.
I can't argue with that if you're having success at the low end.
But when I look at your volume over the past 5 or 6 years it's down both in North America and globally at a time when pricing was up about 20% 18% respectively for those regions.
And I'm just going off the organic numbers you've given us over that time.
So correct me if I'm wrong but gross profit has to be way up.
And I guess I'm wondering does -- gross profit per unit I'm talking about.
Do you -- I guess do you -- has that been consistent that the low end has been doing better than the high end over the past couple of years? And is it possible that you could accelerate even more by taking pricing down? Or is it really just that you haven't done enough on the high end and messaging? Yes Jonathan.
I think if I go back to when we were really doing well in the 2000s we were driving Special K and Kashi very aggressively and were seeing good growth in that business and that in turn then drives the category performance.
I think that's an opportunity as we go forward here.
Our final question will come from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions for you.
I wanted to ask first of all in relation to the gross margin performance you indicated around -- over $80 million of net inflation if I heard that correctly? Meaning that that comes through the majority of your gross margin decline for the quarter? Pringles I assume also was a bit of a drag on the gross margin.
So I know it's not fair to call it underlying because the inflation is part of the business but it would sure seem like the underlying business if you will kind of getting past that inflation was pretty solid in the quarter.
Would you agree with that viewpoint? That's a very fair statement.
So more than 200 basis points of the gross margin impact was this net inflation impact.
And then as I mentioned 80 basis points from Pringles.
So the underlying health in the business really was quite strong.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question regarding promotional spending overall.
You had positive price realization.
I'm just curious how -- if you could characterize promotional spending in your categories and how Kellogg's promotion was in the quarter.
I know there's been a couple of questions around this I wasn't clear on how -- if your promotion was up in the quarter or down versus the price realization.
We always compete in intensely competitive categories.
And I'd say that all of our categories while they were competitive they're reasonably rational.
So I think that we continue to operate according to our plan and our plan comes back to really brand building and innovation and driving and exciting the consumer.
So we're staying competitive out there but I -- and I'm not seeing any increasing competitive pressures that overly concern me.
Okay.
Thank you guys for joining us.
And I look forward to speaking with some of you over the course of the next few days.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning welcome to the Kellog Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Simon Burton Kellog Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference sir.
Great thank you Mike.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our second quarter 2013 results.
I'm joined here today by John Bryant President and CEO; Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Norman President of Kellogg International who has been primarily focused on stabilizing and turning around our European business over the last year.
The press release and slide that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kellogcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday August 5.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
As you have seen today we announced results for the second quarter which is the final quarter that we will be affected by comparisons to periods before we earned Pringles.
Results met our expectations for both operating profit and earnings in the quarter.
Underlying reported operating profit increased by 11% and underlying internal operating profit increased by 3.4%.
However sales growth was slower than we expected.
As you've seen in recent public consumption data some of the larger categories in which we compete particularly in the U.S.
saw lower rates of growth in the quarter.
We continue to expect good rates of long-term growth from our categories but we recognize the short-term weakness that we've seen and have taken a pragmatic approach with guidance.
We just launched increased levels of innovation that will add to results in the second half and we're increasing rates of advertising particularly in the third quarter.
So we expect improvement but realize that it could be a slower process through the balance of the year than we originally expected.
We're on track to achieve our guidance for currency-neutral earnings per share as a result of continued good performance from Pringles and the work we've been doing on our cost base.
This will allow us to cover the impact of the sales outlook while continuing to invest in the future growth of the business.
This is important as we continue to focus on our margins and plan for further investment in the future.
Let's turn to Slide 4 and a quick update on the Pringles acquisition.
As you know we've now owned Pringles for more than a year.
So our third quarter 2013 results will be lapping the fourth full [ph] quarter of ownership last year.
We've made great progress with the integration.
The transition service agreements that we had with Procter &amp; Gamble have now all ended and the business is operating on Kellogg's systems.
This was a major initiative as this acquisition was a carve-out which required us to quickly integrate the business into our structure.
The entire organization including the Kellogg business units the new employees that joined us from Pringles and the transition team have all done a great job.
Thanks too to P&amp;G for all their help throughout the transition.
Reported global sales increased in a low double-digit rate in Q2 reflecting a difficult comparison due to pre-close adjustments in the second quarter of last year.
However we saw good underlying rates of consumption growth.
For example consumption in the U.S.
increased by approximately 7% in the quarter.
And as you know the business has continued to run smoothly all year.
Our sales and marketing execution has been good and the sales growth we've seen has exceeded our expectations.
We saw more accretion than we originally anticipated in the first half and we're tracking to the higher end of our synergy range for the full year.
This is a great brand with untapped potential.
We are increasing innovation and investing in capacity and we have visibility into improving margins over time.
So I'd just like to thank everyone involved in the acquisition and the transition for all their hard work.
Now I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial results.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Slide 5 is a recap of our performance for the quarter and year-to-date.
Reported sales growth was 6.9% and internal sales declined by 0.5%.
We've owned Pringles from June 1 2012 so Pringles adds the benefit of 2 months of sales and profits to our reported results.
We saw some weakness in several segments in the U.S.
and trade inventory declined in several regions around the world.
But we had solid results in Latin America Asia Pacific and in Frozen Foods and Specialty in the U.S.
Underlying reported operating profit increased by 10.9% which included a benefit from lower Pringles integration costs.
Underlying internal operating profit which excludes the impact of the acquisition of Pringles increased by 3.4% as we expected and included the impact of cost inflation net of productivity in our supply chain as well as effective management of costs and some timing in SG&amp;A.
And finally comparable earnings per share which excludes integration costs was $1 in line with our expectations.
Comparable growth was 5.3% and this included a $0.02 adverse impact from currencies.
Slide 6 shows the components of the quarter's 6.9% reported sales growth.
Internal volume declined 1.6% with nearly 1/2 of the decline being driven by trade inventory reductions in the U.S.
France and Mexico.
It's worth noting that we saw a good volume growth in our Asia-Pacific region and we did see price mix improvement in the quarter across most of the regions.
Of course Pringles is the primary driver of the 7.9 points of growth related to acquisitions in the second quarter.
While we expect that our innovation will contribute to results in the second half of the year we do expect that sales growth will continue to be a bit slower for the balance of the year than we originally anticipated.
I'll provide more detail regarding our outlook later.
Finally currency translation reduced sales growth by 0.5 point in the quarter.
Slide 7 shows the shape of the net inflation we'll see this year and it's the slide that we showed you last quarter.
You remember that we recognized net cost inflation in the first half of the year and as you can see on the chart we continue to expect net deflation in the second half of the year which should provide a benefit to our gross margins.
We have better visibility into our cost structure for the balance of the year and now expect a small amount of net inflation in the third quarter and a net deflation in the fourth quarter.
The slower sales growth we have seen so far this year has led to reduced operating leverage.
We saw the impact of this in the second quarter and expect it to have an impact on margins in the second half of the year particularly in the third quarter.
In the second quarter our underlying reported gross margin declined by 140 basis points.
Of this approximately 50 basis points was due to the impact of the Pringles acquisition and approximately 90 basis points was due to the impact of net inflation operating leverage and some country and product mix.
Slide 8 highlights some of the brand building activity we have planned for the second half of the year.
Obviously this is just a small sample but it highlights the breadth of activity we expect in the business.
As you know we launched a significant amount of innovation around midyear and we will support these products over the balance of 2013 with strong support planned for the third quarter.
As we've mentioned a few times over the past year we have been doing a lot of work increasing the efficiency of our investment in brand building.
This work continued in the second quarter and we have seen encouraging results.
This work included savings in working media through mix improvements digital purchasing negotiations and the moves to pan-regional purchasing.
We have also realized savings in non-working media by leveraging copy across multiple markets where practical.
And in addition we've done a lot of work with consumer promotions around the world.
As a result we expect that advertising will be up in the second half and flat to up for the full year despite the savings that I have mentioned.
Now let's turn to Slide 9 which shows quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
Overall total company underlying internal operating profit growth of 3.4% was broadly in line with our expectations.
And underlying operating margins were solid at 15.5% up more than 50 basis points from last year.
North America's internal operating profit increased by 3.2% a sequential improvement from the first quarter.
We saw a good cost discipline and we benefited from Pringles synergies.
The Morning Foods Specialty and North America Other segment which includes Frozen Foods and Canada all posted operating profit growth.
Operating profit in the Snacks business was flat due to sales performance.
We have a stronger innovation pipeline and increased advertising planned for the second half of the year in North America although we do expect the environment to remain challenging.
Internal operating profit grew by 1.8% in Europe and included a mid-single-digit increase in advertising.
The restaging of Special K across Europe that we've spoken about before began in the U.K.
in Northern Europe at the end of the second quarter and we've seen early signs of improvement.
Internal operating profit in Latin America decreased by 8.3% in the quarter due to significant commodity inflation and the impact from reductions in retailer inventories.
Much of this is behind us so we expect improved performance in Latin America across the second half of the year.
And then Asia Pacific we saw an increase in internal operating profit of 11.3%.
Growth was driven by solid sales across key businesses and included increased levels of advertising.
Slide 10 provides detail of our year-to-date cash flow performance.
Cash flow from operations before capital spending was $705 million in the first half of the year.
This was an increase of $25 million from the first half of last year.
And remember we benefited last year from the structure of the Pringles transaction with the addition of approximately $100 million of cash flow in the second quarter of 2012.
Capital spending was $238 million an increase of $83 million over the first half of last year and in line with our plan.
We still expect to spend slightly more than 4% of sales for the full year.
And we have now repurchased more than $500 million of shares so far this year.
We still expect to repurchase shares in line with proceeds from options for the full year.
Our share repurchases in the first quarter were well below options proceeds.
And while we are currently tracking ahead of proceeds for the year-to-date period we expect that this will balance out as we progress through the second half.
Now let's look at Slide 11 which shows our guidance for 2013.
Due to the slower sales growth we saw in the second quarter expectations for the remainder of the year and increased currency headwinds we now expect that reported sales growth will be approximately 5% 2 points lower than our original guidance.
The decline in sales growth is split evenly 1 point from currency and 1 point from internal growth expectation.
Although our underlying reported earnings per share has come down by 2 points our currency-neutral earnings per share is consistent with original guidance.
We have been able to manage the 1 point of internal sales shortfall through improved performance from Pringles and disciplined cost management.
We haven't changed our estimate for full year cost inflation at approximately 5% and cost savings of around 4% but inflation is a little lower and savings are slightly higher.
And as I mentioned we still expect to see net deflation in the second half as a result of lower cost pressures and slightly higher cost savings.
We now expect the gross margin for the full year will be down 75 to 100 basis points a change from our original guidance of down 50 basis points.
Pringles is still contributing approximately 50 basis points to the decline due to the lower margin structure.
Slide 12 shows more detail regarding our full year earnings per share guidance.
Previously we gave guidance for underlying earnings per share growth of between 5% and 7%.
This included a $0.02 negative impact from currency.
We always expected currency neutral earnings per share growth excluding integration costs to be between 6% and 9% or $3.84 to $3.93 per share and that has not changed.
However over the course of the last quarter currencies have moved against us more significantly.
This means that instead of a full year negative impact of $0.02 we now expect the impact to be $0.09.
Our guidance for reported earnings per share has gone from 5% to 7% growth to 3% to 5% growth.
This change is completely due to the $0.07 extra headwind in currencies.
Obviously currency translation will remain volatile so I'll update you regarding the effect as the year progresses.
Now let's go to Slide 13 in some additional detail on our guidance.
As we mentioned last quarter we expected that estimates for the full year tax rate might improve and that has been the case.
We now expect that the full year tax rate will be between 29% and 30%.
We continue to expect that interest expense will be between $230 million and $240 million.
We still expect annual cash flow to be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion and total capital spending to be slightly more than 4% of sales.
In the second half we have increased innovation more advertising and Pringles will be included in the base.
As for the phasing of earnings over the remainder of the year we expect reported earnings per share including the impact of currency but excluding integration costs to be roughly equal in the third and fourth quarters.
Our current expectations are that integration costs and the impact to currencies will be approximately balanced between the third and fourth quarters.
As has been the case all year our guidance for comparable operating profit and earnings per share excludes the impact of adjustments from mark to market.
And finally on Pringles we continue to expect that integration costs will be between $0.12 and $0.14 per share but synergies will be toward the high end of our $50 million to $75 million range for the year.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for a discussion of our segments.
Thanks Ron.
Slide 14 shows the internal net sales growth posted by Kellogg North America.
As we mentioned performance was mixed in the quarter.
Let's look at the segments in more detail starting with Slide 15 in the U.S.
Morning Foods business.
Growth in the cereal category in the second quarter was disappointing.
Although we did expect it to be challenging given the timing of innovation scheduled for launch at midyear and the need for additional activity.
Special K saw consumption growth of approximately 2% in the quarter as a result of growth posted by Special K Protein which we relaunched in the second half of last year and Special K Chocolate Strawberry which launched this year.
Frosted Flakes continued to perform well as did Raisin Bran.
We saw a high single-digit consumption growth as a result of our recent healthy dividends campaign.
Healthy dividends has targeted adult health-conscious consumers and focuses on bringing boomers into the cereal category.
For example the campaign highlights the benefits that come from a balanced diet including cereal and a healthy lifestyle.
As I mentioned last quarter we've seen some weakness in the adult cereal segment.
In addition to the healthy dividends campaign we also have innovation that will help to address this including Raisin Bran containing Omega-3 Kashi Cheer Heart to Heart and Multi-Grain Special K.
Special K is a great brand that travels well around the world.
So in addition to all the activity I've mentioned we've also just launched Special K Nourish Hot Cereals in the U.S.
And as you'll hear from Paul we're also launching Hot Cereals in Europe.
In the U.S.
we've launched 3 varieties which are a healthy blend of oats and grains including quinoa.
They also include inclusions such as cranberries which you add after preparation.
We've only just introduced these cereals but acceptance has been good and we have activity planned for the fall.
We've also launched Kellogg's breakfast beverages and off to an encouraging start.
ECV is good and brand building has started.
Obviously it's early but we're optimistic that these will be successful and will generate a meaningful amount of incremental sales growth.
Finally Pop-Tarts had an excellent quarter.
Consumption increased at a mid-single-digit rate.
We introduced 2 kinds of peanut butter Pop-Tarts in May.
And again although it's early both are exceeding our expectations.
Now let's turn to Slide 16 which shows the internal net sales performance of the U.S.
Snacks segment.
The segment posted an internal sales decline on the most difficult comparison of the year.
Internal sales in the cracker business were down slightly partially because we were lapping very strong growth from Special K Cracker Chips last year.
However we've seen improvement in distribution and quality merchandising in the business in recent weeks and the innovation we launched around midyear is off to good start.
Cheez-It Zings and Town House Pita are both getting good rates of trial and we're selling all the crackers in our new cup packaging that we can make.
The cookie business also declined in the quarter.
Again the innovations we've just launched including Keebler Simply Made cookies Jumbo Fudge Shoppe and Cookies In A Cup are all off to a good start.
And the decline we saw in the wholesome snacks business was at least partially due to the strong 7% sales growth posted last year.
We did see some good growth this quarter from Special K Pastry Crisps and new Nutri-Grain crunch bars also contributed.
Our Pringles business saw a good consumption growth of approximately 7% in the quarter which outpaced the category's growth and we gained share as a result.
The core grew and our Pringles Stix innovation also added to the results.
We've got good activity planned for the second half and more innovation planned for introduction toward the end of the year.
We always knew the second quarter would be a difficult one for the Snacks business.
We've got innovation that's just launched and more coming.
This in combination with additional support and Pringles now being included in internal sales growth should help results in the second half.
Of course it will continue to be a difficult environment and we continue to expect that improvement will take some time.
Slide 17 shows the net sales performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
We posted internal net sales growth of 1.9% in the second quarter.
We posted good results in the Convenience channel driven by cereal in a cup and our 5 SKUs of Special K Cracker Chips in single-serve packs which is doing very well.
We've just launched Special K Nourish Bars in this channel and have more innovation planned for later in the year.
In addition our Foodservice business has good plans for the second half of the year and we're optimistic that the Specialty Channels business as a whole will improve over the balance of the year.
Finally Pringles which has done very well in these channels since the acquisition continued to post growth in the quarter and our expectations are for continued good performance in the second half.
Slide 18 shows detail regarding the North America Other segment which includes the Canadian and U.S.
Frozen Food businesses.
The segment posted 3.9% internal sales growth in the quarter.
In Canada we've seen some good results from innovation including share gains in the Frozen category as a result of the launch of Special K Flatbread sandwiches and Eggo Minis waffles growth in crackers due to the introduction of Special K Cracker Chips and good early performance from breakfast beverages.
We saw a high single-digit internal sales growth in the Frozen Foods business in the quarter.
We saw good volume growth in the frozen breakfast business and also posted gains in price mix.
Growth in the frozen breakfast business was driven by the continued success of the Special K Flatbread sandwiches and we've got a new version being introduced later this year.
Now let's move to the international business.
As you know we've had a difficult start to 2012 in Europe.
We've been doing a lot of work over the last year to stabilize the business and we saw growth at the end of last year and early this year.
So now I'd like to turn it over to Paul Norman who will provide more color regarding our plans for the European business.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Back in November at Day at K we discussed some of issues affecting performance in Europe over the past few years and we shared our strategy to change all that highlighting 3 key where to play choices: One sustainably grow cereal in and beyond the bowl; two explosively grow snacks; and three accelerate growth in select emerging markets.
To win we said we would need to operate differently by designing for scale by developing and executing ideas at a pan-European level.
Finally to enable this we needed to reorganize the way we worked.
The acquisition of Pringles provided the catalyst for us to do so.
Several months on and Pringles is now integrated.
The region is organized around 2 category hubs namely cereal and snacks.
And we are bringing pan-European ideas to market in cereal in and beyond the bowl and in snacks as well as increasing levels of investment in key emerging markets.
Our overall rate of innovation will increase significantly in 2013 and we have good visibility to 2014 and beyond.
I would like to run quickly through a few slides on key initiatives coming in the back half of 2013.
Let's start with cereal on Slide 20.
In the second half we will be looking to drive momentum behind key adult brands.
On Crunchy Nut Corn Flakes our leading taste brand in the U.K.
we will accelerate momentum via new advertising from the proven "the trouble is they taste too good" campaign as well as with innovation in the form of the recently launched Glorious Oat Granola and soon-to-be launched chocolate curls variety.
In France and Italy the Extra brand will benefit from an all-new advertising campaign backed by significant year-on-year increases in investment.
Finally in the U.K.
Spain and the Nordic region we will be launching the 5-day challenge on All-Bran offering consumers faster more effective relief from digestive discomfort.
Moving on to Slide 21.
We will also continue to reinvigorate our largest brand Special K.
As you know we launched renovated base food including whole grain and fiber in recent quarters.
And this rollout continues in more countries as we speak.
We are expanding our presence within the cereal category to Hot Cereal.
With the launch of Special K Multi-Grain porridge coming to selected countries in September.
A differentiated food offering in 3 varieties and 2 different packaging formats we feel confident we will attract new users to the Special K brand over the coming months.
As 2014 comes we will be expanding further into additional formats in various parts of the region with the Special K brand.
More to come on this soon.
Moving to Slide 22.
Our aim is also to compete more broadly in breakfast beyond the bowl.
As a result we are just launching on the continent a full range of new Nutri-Grain handheld breakfast solutions.
We recognize that sometimes consumers don't have time for a bowl of cereal and milk.
That's why we developed foods that provide the benefits of cereal in a portable and convenient format that better meets their needs.
These are delicious toastable and dunkable whole-grain foods designed to better fit the local breakfast occasion.
The range will include breakfast biscuits but also unique new to market propositions too including toastable pastries.
Now let's talk snacks on Slide 23.
First up is Pringles where things continue to go well.
Following another quarter of mid-single-digit consumption growth driven by some great in-store focus from our local sales teams selected innovations like the Xtra subline and continued geographic expansion in emerging markets we feel good about the future.
We're adding capacity in 2014 to further fuel the brand in terms of growth in existing geographies and in new ones and to enable a strong pipeline of innovation that you will hear more about in the coming months.
Moving to Slide 24 on Special K snacks and an update on a couple of key pan-European initiatives.
Firstly Biscuit Moments which we launched in the U.K.
last year and now can be found across the region in 2013.
This is a great example of an idea designed and delivered consistently across the region and it's an idea that has worked in other regions too.
For example this idea was launched in the U.S.
under the Special K Pastry Crisps brand and has been doing very well.
Another example is Special K Cracker Crisps which are shown on Slide 25 and which will roll out across the region later this year.
These are similar to the Special K Cracker Chips you will know in the U.S.
This idea has obviously been successful and has now traveled to Europe but has also now been launched in Canada Mexico and soon in Australia too.
So when you put it all together on Slide 26 you will see a good cross-section of activity in and beyond the bowl of breakfast and an exciting set of initiatives across snacks to accelerate growth.
And all of this is being done with the benefits of scale both in development and delivery.
To close I pulled back my summary slide from Day at K last year in November.
We continue to transform our company in Europe into a cereal and a snacking company leveraging ideas with scale across the region by operating differently.
Change takes time and effort and I would like to recognize the entire team in Europe for what they're doing to make it happen and bring our strategy to life.
Thank you.
I'll now turn it back over to John.
Thanks Paul.
Now let's turn to Slide 28 in our other international businesses.
Internal net sales increased by 4.1% in Asia Pacific in the second quarter driven by strong volume growth.
The Australian business contributed to this growth as the breakfast drinks we launched last year continue to do well.
Nutri-Grain our core cereal brand in Australia gained category share in the quarter and we've got more innovation planned for introduction in Australia including Special K Cracker Chips which is similar to the ones you know in the U.S.
In Asia we saw good growth in India Southeast Asia and South Africa.
South Africa posted double-digit net sales growth as the Corn Flakes brand including Corn Flakes Porridge did very well.
We also saw double-digit growth in India due to strong growth from Chocos Muesli and the Special K brand.
And Pringles also posted mid-single-digit sales growth in the quarter driven by both volume growth and price realization.
The Latin American business posted 5% internal sales growth although this included some unusual items including the reduction of trade inventories as I've mentioned before.
Without these items both sales and operating profit growth would have been much higher.
The economic environment in Mexico remains difficult but cereal consumption growth remains good.
We've had some recent gains in distribution and cost of innovation is working well and we've got more plans for introduction before the end of the year.
We also saw growth in Brazil the Andean region Venezuela and Chile.
And Pringles also did well in the quarter exceeding our expectations.
Now let's turn to Slide 29 and the summary.
We met our goals to operating profit and earnings in the second quarter.
We have better plans for the second half including more innovation and increased levels of advertising.
However we recognize that the difficult environment we saw in the first half will continue through the balance of the year.
We have completed the majority of the Pringles integration and the business is performing very well.
And we have reaffirmed our full year target for earnings excluding the impact of currency translation.
So finally I'd like to say thank you to all the Kellogg employees around the world for all their hard work and dedication.
Together we're building the plans and laying the foundation necessary for future growth.
And now we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Would you please comment on the cereal merchandising outlook? It seems like General Mills captured a lot of merchandising activity during your second quarter period.
Can you just give us some comments on how you see the merchandising outlook in North America for the rest of the year? David it's very hard to predict how the merchandising activity will change as we go through the back half of the year.
What I'll say on cereals we're focused on driving our business the way that we've seen the business respond historically which is through brand building innovation both food and packaging as well as nutrition.
I believe that's the right way to drive the cereal business.
Obviously cereal is always an intensely competitive category.
We'll be competitive in that category.
But I wouldn't say that there's any trends around merchandising that concern us.
Research Division</strong> Related to the -- to cereal category on new products how have the new products performed and would you call this out as a reason for the soft sales in any way? Or more importantly are the new products more of a second half event? Maybe if you could help me out a little on that on? David the new products are really a second half event.
They only started shipping towards the end of the second quarter and the brand building won't be turned on until we get well into the third quarter and we have the right level of distribution across the U.S.
stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question for me is just a detail on advertising.
What was the advertising change during the second quarter? So David this is Ron.
Our advertising was down just slightly in the second quarter and that was a function of the innovation -- timing of innovation launches that John mentioned.
So we do expect advertising growth in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> So then the nice operating margin performance relative to the gross margin was not related to like a giant decline in advertising? It was other factors namely Pringles savings and/or other savings? Is that correct? And/or other savings.
David particularly we've been very focused and cost disciplined around overhead.
We've executed some initiatives early in the year knowing that we were facing high inflation in the front part of the year.
And next we have Bryan Spillane Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification and a question.
I think Ron you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that in facing the back half of the year the third quarter earnings would be the same as the fourth quarter.
I just want make sure it's clear.
Is that the absolute? Or is it the year-on-year growth rates that you're referring to? That is the absolute earnings per share Bryan.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a question on Pringles.
It's been an important sort of revenue growth contributor since the acquisition and profit growth contributor since the acquisition and still -- and it's an important component as we look into the second half especially now that becomes internal -- part of the internal calculation.
Can you talk a little bit about first sort of where you stand today on capacity whether you're capacity constrained at all? And then second now that you're completely free from the Procter's shared service arrangement how effective you've been at filling in some of the whitespace so the markets where you've had to sort of find-your-own distribution now that you've kind of pulled away from Procter? So just those 2 things as we look at Pringles going forward please.
Thanks for the question Bryan.
I'm going to answer the very high level then Paul might end up with some questions on Europe -- or some comments on Europe specifically around Pringles.
First as you said the Pringles acquisition has gone incredibly well for us.
The integration is largely complete where now Pringles is operating on our systems and that's enabling us to generate the synergies that we're seeing come through on the cost side.
So remember a lot of the cost synergies from Pringles was unhooking the P&amp;G shared activity hooking it on to the Kellogg systems and support processes and be able to run the business without adding a lot of additional cost.
We're absolutely seeing that come through.
Also when we acquired the business we were concerned about the top line growth of the business given that's been through a difficult transition.
So we were relatively conservative in setting out top line growth expectations.
The good news is this business has responded incredibly well to our merchandising with our sales force and bring to life those programs in store.
So that's working very well for us.
As you pointed out we have been capacity constrained in this business.
We do have new capacity coming on.
We've also been able to run the plants a little bit harder and get more capacity out of them which has also worked well in terms of supplying the market.
So as we look at Pringles around the world from a consumption perspective in the second quarter we saw 7% growth in the U.S.
good growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America and also some very good growth in Europe.
In terms of the whitespaces there's some good Pringles opportunities in Europe as well.
So why don't I let Paul just talk a little bit about the Pringles experience in Europe? Bryan if you think about outside of the Kellogg go-to-market salespeople and you think further a feel into emerging markets remember Pringles for us was pretty transformational in several markets.
It will have almost doubled the size of our business.
So we find ourselves today with a great opportunity.
We have Kellogg distributors and we inherited Pringles' distributors.
The process we're going through now as you can imagine is to consolidate given our newfound scale to drive more capability to go further to grow.
And obviously there's cost to serve benefits to come.
So I don't think the business has been left exposed anywhere.
In fact we've ended up with more distributors than we probably have before.
And the opportunities now I would say in emerging markets and Europe but also the same case of Latin America and parts of Southeast Asia the opportunity to consolidate build capability and hopefully improve cost to serve and invest to grow further.
Next we have Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was curious about the gross margin guidance coming down to I guess a decline of 75 to 100 basis points.
And the grain cost futures markets would indicate that -- and you said it yourself that your costs are lower than you thought and your productivity seems to be coming in lower than you thought.
So is this an issue where it's just a volume and deleveraging is causing gross margin to be lighter than you thought? And then I had a question on Kashi consolidation.
Yes.
Rob it's really a factor of our operating leverage.
So we have very good visibility to our cost structure as we look at back half of the year seeing our net deflation in the fourth quarter as I mentioned.
A little bit of inflation in the third quarter and that's because of the operating leverage impact as a result of the sales coming down in a couple of the key U.S.
businesses.
So it's nothing more than that.
Pringles is still about 50 basis points dilutive impact on the margin as well.
So the underlying margin is down about 25 to 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding Kashi I heard that you've consolidated headquarters into Battle Creek.
Can you talk a little bit about the cost benefit of that? Kashi had a very strong culture in La Jolla and sales have been weak lately.
When do you think performance will improve and what are you doing internally to make sure that you retain what made it strong to begin with? We think Kashi is a great opportunity for us to drive additional growth.
I think the opportunity with Kashi is to play its role within our portfolio.
One of the benefits of having it viewed within the broader Kellogg portfolio is we can more clearly have some Kellogg brands play in some places and then Kashi play where it needs to play.
An opportunity for Kashi is really in the area of pioneering nutrition putting the value back in the food whether it be GMO or organic or new age grains et cetera.
And that's the opportunity that Kashi can play.
And by having it viewed within that broader portfolio we can actually more clearly define and articulate the job that we need Kashi to go out and achieve for us.
Now also Kashi now is a very large business and we can more effectively leverage the scale and benefits of the Kellogg Company by putting it into the broader context of Kellogg.
So we feel very good about the longer-term growth opportunity for Kashi.
And if anything we think this gives us a better opportunity to achieve its long-term growth potential.
The next question we have comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess one thing I haven't heard from you yet on Pringles is the revenue synergies that you expect a little longer term.
I think you started to talk about it qualitatively but not quantitatively.
And obviously you bought Pringles for -- not for its cost savings but for the revenue potential.
So perhaps let's start with that.
Eric I think there are significant revenue synergies coming out of the Pringles acquisition.
We've not quantified those for external purposes but think of it in a number of waves.
The first wave is a benefit of putting Pringles into the Kellogg sales system and driving our initial growth.
That's what we're seeing come through.
The second wave is a little bit dependent upon broader capacity coming online for Pringles which is innovation on the Pringles business itself.
And there's a third wave out there which we're also going after aggressively which is leveraging the Pringles infrastructure to drive Kellogg's snacks more aggressively around the world.
I think Europe is a great example of where we're doing a lot of that today.
Research Division</strong> Well I'd just say I think it would be helpful at some point sooner versus later if you could give some quantification on that.
And then this is a I think a question that's been asked in the past.
But given the poor core results out of the business versus your advertising spend relative to sales you've talked for a couple of years about "optimizing your advertising spend." But the reality is despite a lot of new products and effort the core business volume has been pretty weak for an extended period whether it's Europe or U.S.
or what have you.
And I just -- I kind of wonder like I mean what would sales at your company be like if God forbid your advertising spend wasn't nearly as strong as it is? I mean why isn't such high spending giving a better lift to the portfolio? I just -- it still makes me scratch my head.
Eric we're very comfortable with the level of advertising we spend as a company.
And that advertising is becoming even more effective and efficient each year as we drive more into digital and we activate the brands even more effectively through those programs.
If you look at where some of our weakness has been on the volume side it's really been back in cereal.
So as we think about cereal and this is true in the U.S.
and some of the other large developed markets we have around the world the good news for cereal is the breakfast occasion is in general growing particularly here in the U.S.
And within breakfast cereal has the single largest share.
And there's reasons to believe that there's long-term growth potential in the cereal category whether it be Asian population health and wellness or desire for value.
However there has been some short-term pressure over the last couple of years on the cereal category from alternatives at the breakfast occasion.
So how are we addressing that as a company? Because this will help us get back to volume growth long term.
One is to win with cereal at breakfast.
And we take adult which is the biggest source of opportunity we're driving increased adult consumption around cereal moving with 4 levers: innovation advertising food and packaging.
And innovation as you can see here and this year there's Special K Multi-Grain Kashi Cheer Raisin Bran Omega-3 coming out.
On advertising to your question about advertising effectiveness the healthy dividends program was in place in the second quarter.
It drove strong growth in Raisin Bran which was heroed in that particular piece of advertising.
On foods as we mentioned before in Kashi our focus is on pioneering health.
And we're seeing the benefits again to food right.
We have seen Bear Naked growing double digits in the second quarter.
And then on packaging whether it be resealable bags easy-open liners or more portable solutions like cups all helps us drive that cereal consumption.
And it's more than just winning with cereal breakfast.
It's also winning in breakfast beyond cereal.
So we have a number of warm breakfast alternative such as Eggo Pop-Tarts the Special K breakfast sandwiches.
And now we have Special K Hot Cereal launching both in the U.S.
and in U.K.
And within that as well we're looking at portability whether it be wholesome snacks hand-held breakfast that Paul mentioned in Europe or breakfast beverages here in the U.S.
So we're confident we can do both in the breakfast occasion.
We can grow cereal at breakfast as we did across the 2000s and we can leverage our strong cereal brands into other formats to meet consumer needs at that breakfast occasion.
And we believe if we do this well we can get ourselves back to volume growth as a company.
The next question we have comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John I think that the general expectation to your earlier -- just the answer you just gave by many investors is that the cereal category will ultimately bounce back to a rate of growth whether it's the low single-digit rate that it's had historically even though thus far that recovery has been slower than you would have liked.
But if this slower cereal category growth rate continues for a bit of time or longer than planned I guess do Kellogg and the investment community have to wait through perhaps a longer period of profit pressure as you launch and transition to a lot of this new outside the bowl initiatives and formats? As necessary as they may be but requires spending and may have potentially negative mix issues given the excellent profitability of your core cereal franchise.
So I guess in other words can Kellogg's long-term EPS growth target of 7% to 9% be hit and sustained during a transition like I've described and as you talked about in your -- just in the previous answer? I think it's definitely our intent to over the long term get back on a sustainable growth model.
We are making the investments we need to make in order to get back on that model and we recognize the need to drive our growth more aggressively in the cereal and breakfast occasion and we're making the investments we need to make.
What I think you're seeing within that investment model is we are using cereal equities to help drive our growth in some of the non-cereals spaces.
So for example leveraging the Kellogg master brands launch the Kellogg to-go beverages in the U.S.
That would then enable us to have a more efficient investment model so we don't need to add a significant amount of additional brand building in order to drive that growth.
This will hail us back on the cereal business as well.
At the same time within the advertising line we continue to move money between digital consumer databases and so on which makes that spending even more efficient which also enables us to free up investment.
Also we'll continue to look within our company on the cost side to be more effective and efficient to identify opportunities to provide fuel for growth in our organization going forward.
Research Division</strong> And I know that you switched over to using a third-party broker for some of the in-store work around your Morning Foods business I think maybe back in April or so.
Just trying to get a sense if that transition has gone relatively smoothly.
I don't know if you've got any metrics to point to around distribution or merchandising effectiveness.
But has it basically delivered on what you had hoped you'd get from it? Andrew I think any transition like that always has its bumps early in the process but I feel like it's working very well today.
The next question we have comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask you first on the revenue growth for the business and looking out I think what I heard from you so far I think we heard this consistent theme is a very heavy level of innovation marketing and it's picking up in the second half of the year.
I had assumed some of that started in Q2.
I think a little bit it sounds like it started late in the quarter.
I guess what I'm getting too John is it as simple as you'd increase your marketing even more your advertising? Or do you think these new products is what's going to help fix what are in some cases a category issue like in cereal or just the competitive or slower dynamic in say cookies and crackers in the U.S.? I believe that the innovation we're putting in the marketplace here in the second half as well as the commercial plans we have in the second half will lead to a better sales growth rate in the second half than what we had in the first half.
I also believe it's going to take more innovation and pressure over time to get the categories fully back into the growth rates we'd like to see.
So this is not a short-term easy fix.
This is a longer-term journey that we're on.
But we're absolutely doing the right thing.
So we've seen the ability to grow these categories over time back in the 2000s and it's a case of engaging and exciting the consumer and bringing them back in.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up to that.
You've had a fairly heavy level of productivity savings this year and it sounds like it's a little higher than maybe what you thought initially.
Is there anything unique that's helping drive that? And I guess a lot of us remember back to periods where the supply-chain maybe just cut a little too far.
So I'm just trying to understand what's driving that and how sustainable this level of savings is.
Now the tick-up in savings productivity savings is only slight Chris.
It's not significant.
So we're quite comfortable with the programs that are in place and the things that the supply-chain is doing to generate their savings.
And Chris on the supply chain I feel very good about the state of our supply chain.
The investments that we've made over the last 2 years have enabled us to run these plants even more effectively.
And quite frankly the work that we did on those plants is enabling to run even more efficiently this year and that's a little bit of a source of some of the productivity benefits.
Next we have Jason English Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> More innovation coming to try and rejuvenate growth.
We've been hearing a lot about innovation for a number of years now.
If we look at the cereal category which is clearly a point of weakness TDP growth suggests it's been pretty explosive expansion of the varieties in the category.
Meanwhile velocity is falling off a cliff.
Why shouldn't we be bracing for maybe some skew rationalization in that category rather than banking on innovation to turn it around? Well Jason I think that in a category like cereal which is a high repertoire in category you always have a level of innovation and a level of ongoing rationalization on the shelf.
So the shelf is not growing and it's not declining.
It is an element of bringing new news to the category and continuing to bring consumers in.
In some parts of the business such as Special K where you need a high level of choices to keep people excited interested in eating Special K each day there is a wider level of varieties out there than you might have in some other brands.
Also Jason when we talk about innovation we're not just talking about another line extension.
We are talking about beverages.
We're talking about hot cereals.
We're talking about breakfast sandwiches.
So I think if you compared our innovation pipeline this year to say last year or the year before there's a greater proportion of incrementality within the innovation pipeline.
Plus when you look at the international innovation we are ramping up from a relatively low base and within that and some of the things that Paul talked about in Europe that innovation is significantly more incremental than some of the historical cereal-based line extensions.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back with one more question and it's really picking up where kind of growth relied into with your sustainable growth model it worked for a number of years.
It hasn't really proven to drive very sustainable growth recently.
An important pillar of that is grow brand building continue to increase the investment.
Yet over the last 5 years advertising up at a 1% CAGR well below sales down so far this year.
So I guess back to Chris's question why shouldn't we think that we need just a lot more reinvestment to really get this thing going to get your back on the sustainable growth wheel? Well within that advertising line over the last 5 years there has been a pretty significant shift under the surface between traditional 30-second advertising and digital and engaging consumers more effectively with different -- a different media mix.
Having said that I mean we'll constantly look for fuel for growth in the organization.
And say how do we continue to drive effectiveness and efficiency to enable us to invest more in the business over time? And the next question we have comes from Ken Goldman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You aren't the first company to experience some sluggishness in your legacy categories and brands.
At the same time you're integrating a new one in this case Pringles.
As you look back on some of the challenges you faced in those legacy cookies crackers cereals lately would you have done anything differently John over the last year in terms of your time focused on legacy products and your whole management team's focus versus toward the integration? Or in your view maybe those challenges facing those categories have taken place whether Pringles was taken on or not? Ken it's a very difficult question to answer.
Certainly Pringles being the second largest acquisition in our history and being a carve-out bolt-on was more intense integration particularly in some parts of the world such as Europe.
I don't think that some of the issues we've seen in cereal more recently were impacted by the Pringles acquisition.
But certainly it has been something that the organization has been focused on with the integration.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quickly Latin America almost all of your growth over the last few years has come from price mix your volumes have been down.
Can you talk a little bit about the breakdown between price and mix in that line and to what extent you're comfortable with volumes not really growing in a region where a lot of companies are seeing their tonnage up over the last few years? Over time as we go forward in Latin America we are looking for more volume growth.
I think when you look in the second quarter it's a little distorted by lapping the trade inventory build that happened in Q2 last year that we spoke about on the second quarter call last year.
The -- in particular in Mexico shipments are down quite significantly and now consumption was actually [indiscernible] I think if you're looking at a full basis the volume performance will be much better.
And certainly our strategy going forward in Latin America is to be in volume growth.
The next question or last question that we have comes from Lucia von Reusner of Green Century Capital Management.
I'm just curious as a company publicly committed to sustainability how will Kellogg ensure that the Kellogg brand is not associated with the illegal deforestation that it's partner Wilmar has been accused of? How will you ensure that the Kellogg brand remains sustainable and all that? Well the Kellogg Company has a very strong track record on sustainability and we have a sustainability report that I would turn your attention to.
In terms of palm oil we actually buy green certificates to cargo all our palm oil purchases and we feel very good about our practices in that area.
We work with a number of partners and suppliers around the world and I'll leave it to you to talk to Wilmar directly if you have any questions for them.
But we feel very good about the Kellogg Company's position on this topic.
Okay.
Everyone thanks very much for dialing in and we'll be available throughout the rest of the day and tomorrow for questions.
Thank you.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time today.
The conference call is now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Emily.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2013 results.
I'm joined here today by John Bryant President and CEO; Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer; and Alistair Hirst Senior Vice President of Global Supply Chain.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Thursday November 7.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we reported results for the third quarter and we also announced Project K a significant multiyear growth and efficiency program.
I'll say more about this in a few minutes.
Internal sales growth was 0.5% in the quarter which was below our original expectation.
As you've all seen in the public data center-of-the-store categories in the U.S.
continue to see weak consumption data and it certainly had an effect on our performance.
Our operating profit exceeded our expectations as we saw relatively less pressure in cost of goods and good performance in SG&amp;A.
And in addition to this we also benefited below the line and posted comparable earnings of $0.95 per share which was ahead of our estimate.
This is the first full quarter that Pringles is in the base and the integration is now largely complete.
The business continued to perform well in Q3 and we saw double-digit sales growth in Europe Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
While sales were slower in the U.S.
as a result of comparisons to last year consumption continued to be strong.
So we've managed the situation well in the third quarter and delivered good operating profit and earnings results although our net sales performance was a little softer than we had expected.
Project K is a natural next step in the evolution of our company.
To put this initiative into context let's turn to Slide 4 and a review of our strategy which we announced in early 2011.
We remain focused on 4 key areas: Cereal Snacks Frozen Foods and emerging markets and these areas will receive even more attention as a result of Project K.
First of all we have large core Cereal businesses that have long-term growth potential and we are committed to driving these categories and our global share leadership.
These businesses are always competitive.
We must stay focused on investing in growth and competing effectively.
We've faced some challenges in the last couple of years but we know that proven ideas investment in our brands and good in-store execution drive our categories and fuel our sustainable growth operating principle.
Secondly we are committed to becoming a global player in Snacks and the acquisition of Pringles accelerated this transition.
Pringles brought with it expertise that we can leverage and opportunities that we can unlock across the organization.
With the integration largely behind us we believe that we can more fully leverage these opportunities.
Third we have a large and growing Frozen Food business in North America.
And finally we have the opportunity to further expand our footprint in developing and emerging markets.
Project K will enable us to invest in our brands and execute our strategy.
Now let's go into the project in more detail; specifically how we will drive efficiency and effectiveness the size of the opportunity and our reinvestment priorities starting with Slide 5.
We've always had a focus on continuous improvement as a company.
Project K is an opportunity to step back from our business and identify larger structural efficiency and effectiveness opportunities.
And as a result of this review we have found opportunities in 4 areas.
First the project will drive a more global structure by creating and empowering global category teams and regional hubs.
Second it will build capabilities and drive functional efficiencies.
Third it will build the global supply chain of the future focusing on optimizing our infrastructure including the consolidation of certain sites and production lines as Alistair will discuss in a minute.
And finally it will implement a global business service model which will streamline our end-to-end transactional processes.
Let's turn to Slide 6 which shows the financial highlights of the plan and gives you some idea of its scale.
We expect that total cumulative pretax charges over the life of the program will be between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion with approximately 2/3 coming in supply chain.
Of this total $17 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2013 and we expect that we'll recognize between $175 million and $200 million for the full year or approximately $0.35 to $0.40 per share.
Savings in 2013 are expected to be minimal.
Project K is designed to decrease long-term structural costs and therefore it will take some time to realize the benefits fully.
As a result we expect pretax charges in 2014 to be higher than we'll see in later years and savings to be lower.
We'll give you more detail on the Q4 call when we give full year 2014 guidance.
We'll also give you more clarity on capital expenditure on the fourth quarter call but our initial estimates are that CapEx will be between 4% and 5% of sales for the next couple of years.
We anticipate that pretax savings will reach an annual run rate of between $425 million and $475 million by 2018.
These savings will also be divided approximately 2/3 to COGS and 1/3 to SG&amp;A and essentially all will be cash.
As a result we expect a very good rate of return of approximately 30% from the investment.
Finally we expect that the applicable tax rate for the project will be similar to or slightly below our corporate tax rate.
As you can see this is a significant initiative and is one that will drive our sustainable growth operating model over time.
Let's turn to Slide 7 and our priorities for reinvestment.
Our investment is aligned with the strategy I reviewed earlier.
First we will reinvest in brand building in our core Cereal businesses.
For example we've got some great ideas for supporting our strongest brand Kellogg's in the Cereal category in developed markets and around the world.
We will also increase investment in developing and emerging markets where we have even greater growth potential.
This will include investing in brand building capacity and increased R&amp;D resources.
And we'll also invest in global category teams which will enable faster development and implementation of category growth initiatives.
And finally on our increased investment in brand building.
We know that brand building and innovation drive our categories.
This will include traditional advertising but we'll also focus on increasing levels of digital engagement with consumers and other areas where we've validated the returns.
And we'll also drive better in-store execution to bring our programs to life in store.
Now let me turn it over to Ron for some financial details on the quarter.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Slide 8 shows our performance for the quarter and year-to-date periods.
These results exclude charges for Project K.
Internal sales increased by 0.5 points.
As John mentioned our sales were lower than expected in some developed markets particularly in the U.S.
as you've seen in the consumption data.
However we did see good internal sales growth in all the other regions of the world with Europe up 3.3% Asia-Pacific up 2.9% and Latin America up 6.7%.
Underlying internal operating profit increased by 0.6 point.
These results include mid-single-digit growth in advertising; cost inflation net of productivity consistent with our expectations; and cost containment which drove savings in certain areas of SG&amp;A that exceeded our expectations.
Comparable earnings per share which excludes integration costs and the impact of Project K were $0.95 per share ahead of our expectations due to the SG&amp;A cost containment a lower tax rate and a lower currency headwind.
Comparable growth was 2.2%.
Now let's turn to Slide 9 which shows the quarter's sales growth.
Reported sales declined slightly but internal sales growth was 0.5 points with Asia-Pacific Latin America and Europe all contributing good growth as I mentioned earlier.
Internal volumes declined slightly driven by the softer category sales we mentioned in the U.S.
However Asia-Pacific Europe and Latin America all posted volume growth and all of the regions posted good improvement in price mix in the quarter.
The impact of currency translation reduced sales growth by 0.6 points in the quarter.
We expected our sales growth to improve as we progressed through the second half due to the innovation launched at the end of the second quarter and increased consumer marketing.
Our innovation is doing well but other parts of our portfolio specifically within U.S.
Cereal and U.S.
Snacks are softer than planned.
Slide 10 shows the shape of the net inflation over the second half of the year.
As expected we saw some cost inflation net of productivity improvements in the third quarter.
This followed a period in the first half of the year when we saw significant inflation.
The inflation was the largest driver of margin performance in the quarter but we also saw reduced operating leverage resulting from the slower sales growth.
Our underlying reported gross margin declined by 20 basis points a sequential improvement from Q2 due to the lower cost inflation I mentioned and the fact that Pringles is now completely included in last year's base.
As we've said before we have good visibility into our cost structure for the fourth quarter and we still expect net deflation.
But we are seeing some adverse impact from lower operating leverage due to softer sales in the U.S.
Slide 11 shows the quarterly underlying internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
As a reminder the operating profit growth on the chart excludes charges for Project K.
Underlying internal operating profit for the total company increased by 0.6 points which was ahead of expectations and included a mid-single-digit increase in investment in advertising.
North America's underlying internal operating profit decreased by 0.7 points.
This was driven by sales declines in Morning Foods and Snacks combined with increased investment in advertising and was partially offset by cost containment measures.
We expect fourth quarter sales to remain challenged in North America but we're developing plans to invest behind our categories and improve in-store execution.
Underlying internal operating profit declined by 3.8% in Europe.
This included a double-digit increase in advertising.
We've invested behind innovation and we restaged Special K across much of the region.
That and a strong program on Pringles contributed to the significant increase in support in the third quarter.
In addition we invested upfront costs in several efficiency initiatives in the region to drive future savings.
Excluding these upfront costs Europe's profit growth was more than 2%.
Underlying internal operating profit in Latin America increased by almost 24% due to the strong sales growth and lower SG&amp;A.
And in Asia-Pacific we saw an increase in underlying internal operating profit of 2.3% driven primarily by sales growth and lower SG&amp;A.
Slide 12 shows our cash flow performance.
Cash flow from operations before capital spending was $1 389 000 000 over the first 3 quarters of the year.
This was an increase of $14 million over the same period last year.
Capital spending in the year-to-date period was $363 million an increase of more than $100 million over last year.
This was in line with our expectations and we still expect spending for the full year to be slightly more than 4% of sales.
Our cash flow performance is tracking in line with our plan to deliver $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion for the full year and we've decreased debt levels by approximately $900 million since the acquisition of Pringles.
Now let's look at Slide 13 and an update of our full year guidance.
As a result of the slower sales growth we saw in the U.S.
we expect that reported sales growth will be approximately 4% to 5%.
This is lower than our previous guidance of approximately 5%.
And we expect that underlying earnings per share will be at the lower end of the $3.75 to $3.84 range we showed you last quarter.
Our estimate for full year cost inflation remains approximately 5% and the estimate for cost savings remains around 4%.
And as I mentioned we still expect to see net deflation in the fourth quarter.
This deflation combined with lower SG&amp;A costs contributes to the strong comparable earnings growth we expect in the fourth quarter.
Gross margin for the full year excluding the impact of Project K will be down approximately 100 basis points with the decline split equally between the impact of dilution from Pringles and performance of the base business.
Slide 14 shows a bit more detail regarding our full year earnings guidance.
As you can see previous guidance including the impact of currency but excluding integration costs was $3.75 to $3.84 per share.
We're still in that range although as you can see currencies have improved by $0.03 which has been offset by sales softness.
So we continue to be in the range but toward the lower end.
We also expect to recognize approximately $0.35 to $0.40 of charges this year related to Project K.
This charge will not have a material cash impact in 2013.
We estimate that approximately 85% of the 2013 charge will be in cost of goods sold and the remainder will be in SG&amp;A.
When we provide guidance for next year on the fourth quarter call we will give you visibility into the costs associated with Project K for 2014.
Now let's turn to Slide 15.
We now expect that the full year tax rate will be approximately 29% and we estimate that interest expense will still be between $230 million and $240 million.
As I mentioned we also continue to expect annual cash flow to be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion including Project K.
Total capital spending including the additional capital we need due to the growth of Pringles will be slightly more than 4% of sales consistent with previous guidance.
We continue to expect that integration costs related to the acquisition of Pringles will be between $0.12 and $0.14 per share and synergies to be toward the high end of our $50 million to $75 million range for the year.
And finally note that our earnings per share guidance excludes the impact of adjustments for mark-to-market for commodities and pensions integration costs and Project K costs.
And now I'll turn it over to Alistair for a discussion on our supply chain.
Thank you Ron and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start off today with a couple of slides that I showed you last November at the Analyst Day in Chicago.
The first is Slide 17 and our vision for supply chain.
We have a highly capable team delivering high-quality food and delighting consumers and customers.
The key for us is that we do all these with a low-cost supply chain and we've made great progress over the last couple of years in these areas as I mentioned in November.
Importantly the Project K program we announced today will help us achieve our goals in a number ways which I'll discuss in more detail in a minute.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 18 you'll see another familiar slide.
The Right to Play was our focus in 2012 as we looked to drive improvement in 4 fundamentals: food safety people safety customer service and financial excellence.
We've made significant progress in all these areas and built a dependable foundation for the organization and Project K will enable us to do even more.
Next is the Right to Win which involves a number of goals including the implementation of Kellogg Work Systems or KWS.
KWS is very important to us as it helps to drive 0 waste using a standard operating model while improving employee involvement and it's even more important to us now as we begin Project K.
In fact having KWS in place is one of the major differences between Project K and other cost reduction programs.
And finally on this slide Right to Lead.
We want to be dependable but we also want to be agile and able to manage complexity.
We want to enable sales growth while maintaining a focus on profitability and we want to do all these while maintaining the safety of our food and our people and while remaining responsive to our customer.
Project K is an enabler of the work that needs to be done for us to achieve this vision.
Slide 19 is a reminder of some of the financial goals that are part of the company's operating model.
As you know we target between 3% and 4% productivity improvement each year.
That's a significant commitment by the supply chain organization and is one that we've got a great track record of achieving and that commitment will continue even as we progress through the multiyear Project K initiative.
Our long-term target is for capital expenditure of between 3% and 4% of sales.
And over the last couple of years we've increased the amount of investment in growth.
This is the trend that we intend to continue in the future.
It is worth noting that over the next couple of years Project K will likely increase the overall level of capital expenditure to between 4% and 5% of sales.
And finally I've also put the impact of Project K on the slide.
This is the total amount of savings we expect from the program not just supply chain's contribution although supply chain's contribution is meaningful.
The important thing to note here is that the $425 million to $475 million in annual savings is incremental because it's largely coming from structural cost opportunities.
It will be achieved in addition to our normal run rate of productivity which is driven by continuous improvement programs.
Now let's turn to Slide 20 and a few specifics of our Project K and the supply chain organization.
As you can see we have 3 main goals: aligning the network organizing the supply chain for success and implementing global business services.
Let me talk briefly about each.
First we must properly align the network to the realities of the marketplace and the requirements of our customers.
This means making sure that we have the right infrastructure including the right number of plants the right kind and number production lines and that they're in the right locations.
And obviously we need to anticipate future needs while designing the network.
So all of this will lead to the consolidation of certain sites and production lines and the relocation of others.
It is never an easy process but it's one that is necessary for the long-term health of the business.
Secondly we will organize a supply chain structure for success.
This will allow us to do more with less through the use of more standardized processes and a more streamlined organization.
A small and more agile team will lead to less complexity and will allow us to be more responsive to the needs of our customer and the changing competitive landscape.
As you can imagine this will involve the move to regional hubs which will put resources closer to the plants.
And finally we will implement global business services.
This is the transformation of common processes or services that are currently being addressed by different functions in various regions.
This will be a multiyear process but we're already driving other significant transformations that will improve our procurement and engineering functions and also our core manufacturing network as we highlighted at the analyst meeting.
We're 1 year into the transformation and procurement is already providing 1.5x the lift over traditional level of savings.
Successful sourcing of low-cost engineering solutions is driving change in the operating model and as a result we're getting more for each dollar we spend.
These improvements have been significant contributors to our 3% to 4% savings goals.
This process will lead to reduced complexity and increased efficiency and will be the main driver of the Right to Lead initiative that I mentioned earlier.
So finally on Slide 21 a couple of words on Project K in general.
Project K is a very different kind of efficiency and effective program.
The primary source of savings will be from consolidating facilities and eliminating excess capacity.
It will not be from reducing headcount in our operating plants.
It is designed to drive a more effective organization.
It will reduce complexity while increasing our ability to execute and we will maintain the levels of empowerment we've worked so hard to develop in supply chain.
In addition this isn't a program limited to the supply chain organization; rather supply chain is just one part of the initiative.
Project K is a commitment by the whole company and is a major step toward achieving our broader goals.
So I hope that you can see the potential we have in supply chain to support the company while on that journey.
This is not an easy process but it is essential if we are going to recognize our potential and meet our strategic goals.
And with that I'll now turn it back over to John.
Thanks Alistair.
Now let's turn to Slide 22 and some detail regarding each of our businesses starting with U.S.
Morning Foods and Cereal.
Both category and Kellogg's consumption were slightly lower than expected in the quarter.
We're lapping strong share gain comparisons of 0.4 points in 2012 partially as a result of our strong Olympics-related program and our share also grew by 0.5 points in the third quarter of 2011.
So part of this quarter's performance was due to comps.
However we did experience a slower-than-expected recovery in our Kashi brand and continued challenges in the adult segment of the portfolio.
Our shipment performance was also lower than expected due to reduced trade inventories.
In fact we ended the quarter at the lowest level of trade inventories in the last 4 years.
As we've discussed over the course of the year we have launched innovation aimed at providing the progressive nutrition that older consumers are seeking.
Raisin Bran did well as a result of the new Raisin Bran with Omega-3 and strong support from a healthy dividends campaign.
Rice Krispies is also included in the healthy dividends campaign and also posted sales growth.
And Special K Protein which we launched last year also posted sales growth and share gains in the quarter as consumers continue to seek new sources of protein.
Obviously we need to do more to provide innovative nutrition and we have plans for 2014 that will help us continue to address this broad consumer trend including the introduction of new organic Kashi cereals which include grains such as quinoa and some of which are gluten free.
As you know we launched our new Special K Nourish Hot Cereals at midyear and they are off to a good start although it's still early.
We're seeing strong sales growth recently as the advertising support just began and we have good brand building and merchandising support planned for the rest of the year.
We also launched drinkable breakfast products at midyear and we've seen encouraging initial results.
ACV on these products is good and we're on target to meet expectations.
We're excited about this opportunity and some others as we focus more on the On the Go segment.
We have additional activity planned for next year as this is a segment that has strong potential through the convenience and portability of the products.
We have other great programs planned for 2014 as well.
You'll remember our successful Kellogg's masterbrand advertising from the Summer Olympics last year and we're pleased to be sponsoring the Winter Olympics next February.
This will include strong activation across the portfolio and be followed in March with additional programs.
And finally for Morning Foods Pop-Tarts had another excellent quarter as consumption increased by more than 7%.
The Peanut Butter Pop-Tarts innovation we launched a few months ago is continuing to do very well with good share and sales performance.
Now let's turn to Slide 23 which shows internal net sales performance of the U.S.
Snacks segment.
Internal sales in the cracker business declined in the quarter although we saw good performance from our big 3 cracker brands which posted consumption growth of 6% in combination.
Our overall performance was the result of lower end market support and the impact of Special K Cracker Chips.
Cracker Chips posted a sales decline due to difficult comparisons to the third quarter of last year resulting from the introduction of Popcorn Chips.
The 2 cracker innovations that we launched early in Q3 are both doing well.
Town House Pita has gained good share and is also having a positive impact on the growth of base Town House.
And Cheez-It Zings saw a good share performance and benefited from a broader Cheez-It Game Day sponsorship in September of this year.
The cookie business posted a decline in the quarter.
As we saw in the cracker business some of the innovations that we launched recently including Keebler Simply Made cookies are off to a good start and the total Keebler brand posted sales growth in the quarter.
The wholesome snacks business was approximately flat in the quarter as growth in the new Special K Pastry Crisps and Nutri-Grain Crunch bars was partially offset by lower sales of core Special K and Kashi bars.
Our Pringles business posted good consumption growth of approximately 3% in the third quarter and it's worth noting that this performance was lapping very difficult comparisons from the third quarter of last year.
We're optimistic about the fourth quarter's results due to the continued success of Pringles Stix and the launch of exciting innovation planned for introduction later in the quarter.
As a reminder Pringles is also a warehouse-delivered product and similar to Cereal saw a significant trade inventory reduction in the quarter.
So while we saw consumption growth in the quarter shipments were down at a mid-single-digit rate.
So the innovation we've launched in the Snacks business in the second half has done well but our results have been disappointing.
And as we've said before we expect that the environment will remain difficult in the near term but the team is doing a lot of work and we expect that the business will improve over time.
Now let's look to Slide 24 and that's sales performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
As you can see this business posted internal net sales growth of 6% in the third quarter.
Growth was the result of distribution gains and a strong performance of Eggo and Nutri-Grain in the K-12 school business.
In addition the Foodservice business gained share in the cereal cracker and health and wellness categories during the quarter and we've also launched breakfast drinks in some of these channels.
And Pringles continued its strong year-to-date performance with a double-digit net sales increase in Specialty Channels in the third quarter.
Slide 25 shows detail regarding the North America Other segment which includes the Canadian and U.S.
Frozen Food businesses.
The segment posted an internal sales increase of 0.3% in the quarter.
Internal net sales declined in the Frozen Foods business as we're lapping very difficult double-digit comps in the third quarter of last year as a result of strong growth in both the Eggo brand and the veggie food business.
Special K Flatbread Sandwiches which were launched in the third quarter of last year continue to perform well and drove growth in Q3 this year.
And we recently launched a new Deluxe Egg and Cheese variety.
We continue to see good performance from Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy and Wafflers which provide the benefits of portability and convenience.
The burger segment of our veggie food business posted solid growth and innovation in other segments also contributed.
And in Canada we saw low single-digit sales growth in the quarter.
Pringles gained category share as did the Canadian Frozen Food business as a result of the launch of Special K Flatbreads and Eggo Minis.
And in Snacks we gained share in the wholesome snacks segment as a result of innovation.
Now let's turn to Slide 26 and our international businesses.
Internal net sales increased by 2.9% in Asia-Pacific.
The Australian business posted low single-digit internal sales growth.
The Indian Southeast Asian and Pringles businesses all posted good rates of growth in the period.
In fact Pringles grew at a double-digit rate.
We launched Pringles in a smaller can in Southeast Asia and the early signs have been encouraging.
Kellogg Europe posted internal net sales growth of 3.3% in the third quarter.
Western Europe grew as distribution of our new Nutri-Grain handheld breakfast products increased on the continent and Pringles posted great results as the successful summer commercial program resonated with the consumers.
We also made progress with the relaunch of Special K in the region and are seeing improving trends.
Obviously Southern Europe remains challenging given the difficult economic conditions there.
And in Latin America we saw strong internal net sales growth of 6.7% in the quarter.
Central America Venezuela Brazil Argentina Chile and the Pringles business all posted growth.
In fact the Pringles business grew at double-digit rate.
The economic environment in Mexico continues to be difficult although we have achieved good share positions in the Cereal category in recent public data.
Also around the region we've launched innovation including new Zucaritas and Choco Krispies in Central America and Special K and Nutri-Grain in Puerto Rico.
So to summarize we saw good operating profit and earnings performance in the third quarter.
However we did see weaker top line growth than we were expecting and some of our categories remain challenging.
We're working hard to improve this performance and an important step is the announcement of Project K.
This is a major initiative for us and we're excited by the opportunities we see for the investment and increased growth.
Now I'll open up to questions before coming back with a brief summary.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So on Project K I was curious about goals around advertising as a percent of sales and new product development as a percent of sales.
Is there anything you can tell us about where you're at right now where you might be going on either of those metrics? Alexia we haven't provided guidance on those specific metrics.
And as we look at reinvestment back in the business the reinvestments as I mentioned in the prepared remarks in 2014 are really focused on our core Cereal business and making some investments in emerging markets as well as some capabilities within the business.
We haven't set reinvestment for 2015 '16 and '17.
Obviously as we go along we'll determine the best place to make those reinvestments.
But at this stage the primary focus of our reinvestment is to stabilize and rebuild momentum in our core businesses.
We believe we do that through brand building innovation nutrition over time.
That's where we're focusing.
So we would expect to continue to improve our brand building as a percent of sales as we go forward.
The next question is from Andrew Lazar Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John I remember -- I think it was this past February at CAGNY where -- I think it was during the Q&amp;A and it was right after all the 3G announcements and things where you had mentioned some of the discussions you'd had with the board around giving them a sense of what the implications were of some of the news at the time.
And one of things that you came away with was if food companies left opportunities on the table then it was more likely that others would take advantage of those opportunities for you.
And I'm trying to get a sense is some of this basically getting after more aggressively some of those opportunities? And do you view this as more offensive in -- based on where you benchmark this gets you sort of ahead of where peers might be or somewhat more defensive around it just gets you to catch up to where your benchmarking says others are? Andrew first this is just the natural evolution the next step in our strategy.
If you look back over the last few years in 2011 we reinvested back in our supply chain and that part of our business has been performing incredibly well ever since.
And in fact the investments that we made at that time are now enabling us to do some of the Project K initiatives.
Then we come forward from that and we acquired Pringles which enabled us to become truly a global player in Snacks.
And we reimplemented SAP at the same time.
As we come into 2013 2014 we challenged ourselves to step back from the business and look for structural cost opportunities that we can retake and reinvest back in our business to drive the momentum and the brand building investment that we need to drive to get ourselves back on track.
And that's really what we're doing here.
It really has nothing to do with 3G highs.
It just happens to be occurring at a similar point in time.
It's all about investing in our strategies we took you through before and setting ourselves up for the future.
The next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I guess it seems like the free cash flow impact is pretty significant between the cash cost to the restructuring and the raised CapEx.
Is that fair and is that -- like kind of what are the implications to that in terms of your share repo or dividend growth rates? Maybe you could just touch on that and then I have some follow-up.
Sure Eric.
First recall what I said was that the cash impact in 2013 is going to be relatively minimal.
As you can appreciate there are some cash investments upfront associated with capital and the other investments we're making to generate savings as well and then the cash savings will build or improve over time.
And as a foundation we do generate strong cash within the business.
But we do expect that our debt levels could increase up to $0.5 billion over the next 2 to 3 years.
Now we are working on an initiative in accounts payable and this isn't embedded at this point in time that might provide us some cash benefit.
In terms of impact to our dividend and share repurchase programs we do not expect any impact at this point in time.
Instead we expect the debt levels to go up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John is there any sense -- I realize you're kind of putting this together but I think it was mentioned that a lot of the savings here were supposed to be incremental but obviously the competitive environment is more difficult.
So is it fair to say on the back of this that your long-term growth targets on the bottom line of high single-digit performance growth is unchanged? Yes Eric at this stage we're making no changes to our long-term growth guidance: high single-digit EPS.
Research Division</strong> And last one I guess maybe to Alistair or John maybe you want to take it.
But obviously K-LEAN was quite in some respects damaging to the company.
Why is this one different and why should investors have faith that Project K is going to be a much better outcome than the challenges that K-LEAN ultimately resulted? First let me say that it's not just a supply chain initiative as we just laid out.
So 2/3 of it yes will be delivered by supply chain but it's an enterprise-wide initiative.
It's also over 4 years.
And so that gives us the ability particularly for the supply chain part to appropriately plan resource phase and pace each part of the project.
It's also across the global supply chain network so allowing us to leverage our global resource base and not being biased to one particular region or particular business units.
The project gets its structural fixed cost in our underutilized asset base over the 4 years.
So that's one of the big differences to the previous K-LEAN initiatives which really was a wide-ranging headcount reduction within the plants.
So this is very targeted to assets to lines and to plants.
And while that's very difficult it's the right thing to do to be driving our long-term growth.
So it is a very different point of entry from the previous initiatives that we've carried out as a company.
Our next question is from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> John the center-of-the-store packaged food universe has been weak for quite a while now and it seems to continue to be weak.
What gives you the confidence that the investments that you make with Project K can change that especially when you look at what you said in your prepared remarks: the innovation did well but the underlying -- or the core business didn't do well? So your innovation and the promotions and advertising that come with it just seem to cannibalize the existing business that you have.
So why would Project K change that trajectory? I think if you look at our business right now we're actually seeing some good growth in the international businesses.
We're seeing some good growth here in the U.S.
in specialty and in our Frozen Foods business over a period of time.
The real challenge for us really is in Morning Foods and in Snacks.
And in fact within Snacks the categories are doing okay.
We have an opportunity to be more competitive and so invest more behind that business.
On Cereal we were growing Cereal low single digits across most of the 2000s.
We did that when driving the adult portion of the portfolio.
We had Kashi and Special K firing at all cylinders and I think we can get back to that situation again.
I wouldn't say the 2000s was a period of high growth within the packaged food business within center store either but we've demonstrated the ability to grow that business low single digit in a number of different environments and I think we can get back to that in the future.
Research Division</strong> But just to pick up on your example of Snacks again it seems like your innovation is cannibalizing the existing business that you have.
How can you avoid that going forward? If you look at the innovation on Cheez-It and Town House in Snacks in the third quarter it's actually driving both of those businesses with Cheez-It up about 5% 6% and Town House actually up 20% in the third quarter.
So we are seeing some good growth there.
I think if anything the issue that we have on Snacks is the Special K Cracker Chips were such a big innovation last year it's hard to sustain that.
That size that's coming down a little bit.
That's weighing upon the -- on the Snacks business.
So I think the trick here on innovation is to ensure the innovation is sustainable and to invest behind it over time.
To invest behind it over time you need more brand building.
Hence Project K gives us the funding to keep the brand building behind the innovation to sustain it in the marketplace.
Our next question is from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Well first off the program from my point of view seems like a good response to the environment so congratulations on that announcement.
I want to ask a little bit about the fourth quarter.
Specifically when I just look at kind of what's implied by the guidance to get to the low end of your sales range you have to have a fairly sizable decline in total revenues in the fourth quarter to get to the full year minus 4%.
I think fourth quarter has to be -- sorry for the full year to be up 4% you have to have I think minus 4% in the fourth quarter.
If I've done my math right can you just talk a little bit about how that will work its way through the different divisions? I almost feel like it's got to be negative growth across every one of your major geographies just given the size of that figure.
So can you spend a moment and talk about Q4? Sure David.
Remember we guided sales at a range of 4% to 5% down from the approximate 5% that we guided in the third quarter.
So as we looked at our year-to-date performance we synced up or adjusted Q4 to be more in line.
So we are expecting internal growth in sales in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we do see some challenges particularly in the U.S.
around our U.S.
Cereal business and the Snacks business but we're making the appropriate actions to get those back on track in the future.
And then when you look at the growth from an operating profit and earnings per share standpoint I think it's important to understand that we have the internal sales growth we're expecting consistent with our year-to-date trends and that we have the net deflation as well which is providing a benefit to us in cost structure.
It's allowing us to get confidence in our operating profit and earnings per share expectations.
Research Division</strong> If I just follow up though your guidance is on reported net sales and you just were talking about internal net sales.
If you hit the bottom end of that reported net sales number your year-to-date number is like plus 6%.
Don't forget there's a little currency headwind as well in the fourth quarter David.
Research Division</strong> How big is that? The currency headwind's a little less than 1 point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question for me is just on brand building.
What's your full year expectations? And then have you changed your fourth quarter brand building plans? David on the advertising for the year we expect advertising to essentially be flat year-on-year.
It's up if you include the Pringles acquisition but if you back out the Pringles acquisition it's essentially flat.
Within that obviously we have efficiency programs.
We believe the underlying performance of the program is actually up but in absolute dollars it's relatively flat year-on-year.
The next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think on the second quarter call you had discussed some innovation in Europe coming to market in the back half of the year.
As I think about the pacing of the top line in Europe it was pretty impressive this quarter.
How should we look at the impact of that innovation on 3Q versus 4Q? In other words was there anything in terms of temporary sell-ins promotions et cetera that may have affected the timing of shipments versus consumption this period in Europe? Well Ken I think we're very pleased with the European performance in the third quarter.
I think this represents now 3 quarters of growth over the last 4 in what's a very very difficult environment in Europe.
The big driver of the European performance in the third quarter was actually Pringles behind a very strong summer promotion program as opposed to a sell-in behind innovation on the breakfast side of the business.
Having said that I don't think we'll have the same level of growth in the fourth quarter as we had in the third quarter.
Our next question is from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you on Project K.
And I want to understand as you look ahead even looking out to the end of the program or later years of the program do you expect any of these savings to benefit the bottom line where you actually would have these savings benefiting earnings? And maybe related to that in the short run is there a heavier level of reinvestment that you want to get at maybe it's in 2014 or even '15 relative to the savings that come through from the program? Will there be a timing differential there essentially? Thanks Chris.
Our goal with this program is to reinvest back in our business and to gain momentum in our business and get back on our sustainable growth model and we'll continue to reinvest back in the business until we see that happen.
And so I think that's going to be over the next few years.
So I think it's very hard for us to predict today what might be happening in 2017 2018.
We haven't given 2014 guidance yet.
We'll do that in the fourth quarter conference call.
It is fair to say because these are structural cost changes they take time to execute and see the savings come through so the 2014 savings will be meaningfully lower than the normal run rate of savings that we'll achieve in later years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I had a follow-up question if I could or a second question on the lower inventory levels you mentioned being at very low levels -- I think it was in the U.S.
was the reference.
I wondered are you likely to hold at those levels just given the sluggishness of the category? Will retailers hold less inventory in this environment because of that? We are planning to hold at those low inventories so we haven't built into expectations inventories jump back up again but they are unusually low at the end of the third quarter.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
John I was wondering in U.S.
Cereal if I exclude Pop-Tarts and the beverage business can I assume that U.S.
Cereal was down about 5% or so? And how much of that is due to the tough comp to year-ago Summer Olympics? And then the other part of the question is -- when you had K-LEAN I remember there was a 3-year executive performance plan that was entirely based on executing K-LEAN.
And I think what happens is if you incentivize executives to cut costs they will cut costs.
And I wanted to know how Project K is going to be integrated into your 3-year program.
Have you learned from that experience? Rob if I come back to your first question about the performance of the Cereal business I think the category is down around 3% to 4% and our consumption is down around 5%.
So I think if we hadn't had the Olympics in the year prior we probably would have done in line with if not better than the underlying category.
So that's what's going on in terms of the numbers within Cereal.
On the executive compensation and Project K we do not have an executive compensation program beyond our normal compensation programs.
Our normal compensation programs focus on net sales operating profit cash flow both in the year which we're in as well as on a 3-year period.
And I believe those programs are consistent to drive the right motivation and behavior behind executing Project K flawlessly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no change to your EPP related to Project K.
It'll be your normal measurements.
That is correct.
Our next question is from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John it sounds like there's a lot of change going on within the organization.
I was hoping you could elaborate more with some additional detail maybe what change Paul is bringing to the organization in his new role; your global category teams can you elaborate more on the structure the roles responsibilities; and then also on global business services what services are being folded into this global model? Sure Jason.
Let me take part of the changes in the company over the last few years and I'll hand it over to Ron to talk about global businesses services.
If you step back and look at our company over the last 3 years we've made some pretty significant changes to our leadership team.
We have had a number of very experienced leaders come in from other companies on our international businesses with an ex-Colgate executive running our Latin American business ex-Cadbury running our Asia-Pacific business.
And with the Pringles acquisition we also got some great talent into the company and now we have Chris Hood who came out of Pringles running our European business.
We feel very good about those changes.
At the same time what we've done is we have eliminated a level in our organization.
We've taken out the Kellogg North America and Kellogg International president roles.
I think that enables us to execute faster and execute better by just allowing the underlying international area presidents and business unit presidents in North America to make decisions and move quickly.
However we also recognized it's not just bad execution it's about creating the future of the company.
And that's why we created the Chief Growth Officer role.
That's Paul Norman's new role.
That role has reporting to it the 2 global category teams that I mentioned this morning as well as the Chief Marketing Officer the Head of R&amp;D as well as the Head of Communications for the company.
And the objective of that team is really to help us create the future to create the category plans that will help us drive our Cereal category drive our Snacks category and step up and we'll get a longer-term innovation pipeline and idea stream so that we are driving to the future of the business not just executing as much in the short term.
So I believe this is the right structure.
It enables us to balance between the need to create the future and deliver today.
So they're the primary organizational changes in place.
Ron do you want to talk a little bit about global business services? Absolutely.
So as you're probably aware Jason this is not a new concept.
A number of other companies have gone down this path.
The intent is to create a much more efficient and effective basis for our processes and to standardize those processes across the globe.
So some examples of the processes would include thing like purchase-to-pay or procure-to-pay the order-to-cash process as well.
This point in time there are really 4 functions that are involved in this global business services initiative: finance human resources IT and supply chain.
Of course intent is to enable these processes by technology and we believe that it will set us up with an extraordinarily strong foundation for the future in this area.
Our next question is from Todd Duvick of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned about the expectation of about $0.5 billion increase in debt to fund Project K.
Can you tell us if you expect that to result in your leverage ratio debt-to-EBITDA being roughly flat as EBITDA grows and if you expect there to be much of an impact on your credit rating long term? In terms of impact obviously we continue to generate very strong cash flow.
And our expectation though debt levels will rise is to pay down that debt over time and maintain our credit rating at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you expect those costs to be front-loaded or loaded more towards 2014 than -- or balanced throughout the course of the program? It'll be a little bit more front-loaded which is why I mentioned that we might see our debt levels go up over the next 2 to 3 years by about $0.5 billion.
As you can imagine we're making the investments both P&amp;L-type investments and capital spending-type investments more at the front of the program to generate the savings over the 4-year period.
The next question is from Tim Ramey of Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just an observation.
One of the things you did really super well with Kashi over the 10 or 12 years that you've owned it is keep the authenticity to the brand and keep influentials onboard with it.
And I was just thinking about the Raisin Bran with flaxseed which influentials will be quick to say oh that's the wrong Omega-3.
And I just wonder if that's sort of part of the problem at the center of the grocery store that we're not sort of honing in on the things that consumers are actually looking for but kind of going for the headline look but not the performance.
I guess the good news Tim is the Raisin Bran Omega-3 is doing well and Raisin Bran's in growth behind both that innovation as well as the broader healthy dividends campaign.
So we've demonstrated the ability to engage consumers on that key messaging with those core Kellogg equities such as Raisin Bran.
I think on Kashi you're absolutely right.
I mean Kashi has been a great source of growth over many years and our opportunity on Kashi is to push it back towards that pioneering nutrition.
It became a little bit too mainstream.
That's one of the reasons why we have an issue with Kashi right now and why we are innovating more towards those forward-leaning nutritionists the people who are on the edge of the nutrition forward thinkers forward leaners however you want to describe them.
And so parts of our portfolio will do that and other parts of our portfolio will be more mainstream.
Our next question is from Ken Zaslow of BMO Capital Markets.
What makes Kellogg somewhat unique is your portfolio across geographies have a great degree of similarities.
So I guess my question is really what drove the disparity between international and domestic growth? Was it management issues? Was it product innovation? Was it a change in category dynamics? Am I missing something? Can you just help us out with that? Because it's such a discrepancy between the 2 but yet your portfolios are generally similar across the globe.
Well Ken I think it has in part to do with the development of the markets.
So we saw say in Latin America and Asia-Pacific growth in both Cereal and in Snacks.
We saw growth in Snacks in Europe but not growth in Cereal.
And obviously we're struggling a little bit here in the U.S.
So I think it has to do with the developing emerging nature of the markets in Latin America and in Asia-Pacific as well as -- Pringles is a slightly bigger percentage of some of those regions than we'll just say in the U.S.
So we have some additional Pringles benefit there as well.
So you don't think it's anything with an innovation or a structural issue within the company? No.
If anything I would say that the work we do in Asia-Pacific and Latin America say on Cereal is more category-building in nature.
And quite frankly you come back and look at our U.S.
Cereal business I think that's where we have an opportunity to do more category-building work.
If you look at the pressures on the U.S.
Cereal category it's actually not so much pressure within the category as pressure from categories around Cereal.
I think we as manufacturers in Cereal have the opportunity to step up and reengage consumers on why cereal was such a good benefit at the breakfast occasion.
I think we can do more of that in the U.S.
Quite frankly we already do that in some of the emerging markets.
The next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question related to Project K and your sustainable growth model.
I guess in looking at it -- at the impact from Project K it just seems like especially with taking capacity out and closing plants does it actually make your model a little less volume dependent? I mean I think one of the things one of the sort of challenges for Kellogg over the last year or 2 has just been it is a very revenue-dependent volume-dependent business model and sales growth has been slow.
So I guess does it give you a little extra flexibility? To the extent that achieving a 3% to 4% revenue growth goal is challenged because the environment is challenged does this actually give you a little more flexibility than you have currently? Bryan I think if you look over the next few years it's likely that our sales growth will probably be a little below that 3% to 4% growth because we're building momentum back into the business.
As you go forward and we have the sustainable growth model working the way we want it to work I think we should be looking at fairly balanced sources of growth between volume price and mix.
Obviously over the next few years I think volume will be a little bit harder to come by as we're driving that sustainable growth model and reinvesting back in the business.
Our last question is from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John in terms of the Project K one of your stated goals here is to reduce excess capacity.
Are there any product categories which you would think about in particular where excess capacity exists? Is it fair to say some exists in Cereal? I think it is fair to say that in a market like North America we have excess capacity in the Cereal network.
Well thank you everyone for joining us.
Our strategy hasn't changed.
As you know last year as part of that strategy we acquired Pringles which opened up additional opportunities for growth.
We have some businesses around the world that are performing well and are gaining category share.
We're seeing great results in the Pringles business in an exciting category.
We have some great ideas for investing both in innovation and in brand building and we have some white spaces in which we can invest and drive new source of growth.
We need to pursue the opportunities we have in our existing businesses and categories and in new areas of growth.
So as a result we've announced Project K a significant growth and efficiency program.
With it we will change the cost structure of the company.
We will invest in each of our strategic priorities and over the long term we will focus our investment in those areas where we expect to see the most growth in the years to come.
This a difficult process but Project K is a pragmatic program designed to be a catalyst for future growth and it's the right thing to do for the company over the long term.
So as I conclude I'd just like to say thank you to the Kellogg employees around the world.
They are the heart and soul of this company and it's their hard work that will drive the company's success in the years to come.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone.
We'll be around the rest of the day to have further discussions.
Thanks again.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Michelle.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday February 10.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
Now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
As you have seen we reported fourth quarter and full year 2013 results today.
Full year reported sales growth was in line with our previous expectations.
Internal growth was a little lower than we thought driven by the cereal category weakness in developed markets that was seen for much of the year.
Better-than-expected results below the line offset this impact and full year comparable earnings were $3.77 per share in line with our expectations.
And cash flow was $1 170 000 000 for the full year toward the high end of our range.
We've been making very good progress throughout the quarter on Project K our significant multiyear efficiency and effectiveness program.
I'll give you some more detail on this in a minute but I'll say that I'm pleased with the progress we've made so far and I am encouraged by the plans we have in place.
And finally we also provided guidance for 2014 today.
This guidance reflects the realities of our categories and the work required to drive growth in the future.
While Project K is just part of the solution it is important as it will provide fuel for growth over the next 4 years.
We will not only invest Project K's savings back into the business but we'll also look to improve the effectiveness of our existing investment.
Our goals for 2014 are to set realistic targets and to invest back into our categories and our brands.
We've got a lot of work to do but we also see a lot of opportunity.
You'll hear more on this later today and at CAGNY as we turn Kellogg to profitable growth over time.
And now if you'll turn to Slide 4 you'll see an update on Pringles.
Pringles posted high-single-digit internal net sales growth for the full year and double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
Europe Asia-Pacific Canada and Specialty Channels in the U.S.
all posted double-digit growth in the quarter as innovation and core products drove results.
As we've mentioned before the integration has gone very smoothly is on track and is largely complete.
This has been a great acquisition for us.
Sales and profit growth had exceeded our expectations in every quarter since the transaction closed.
The integration has transformed our global snack business and significantly increased its growth potential.
We now have category teams based in each of our regions to drive future growth.
We launched some exciting innovation in 2013 including Tortilla Pringles in the U.S.
late in the year.
We've been capacity-constrained since completing the acquisition but we have more capacity coming online in 2014 in Europe and in 2015 in Asia which will help us manufacture closer to demand and supply future growth.
In addition we also recently announced that we are planning to add capacity for Pringles in China with our joint venture partner Wilmar.
Sales growth in China has been good.
The JV has been going well.
This is an exciting step for us in this important region.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and a quick update on Project K.
We've made quite a few announcements over the last few months.
We expect that more than half of the cost savings we will realize over the next 4 years will come from supply chain and that's certainly been the initial area of focus for us.
One of our goals is to optimize our supply chain network.
And as a result we've announced plans to close or reduce capacity in plants in large developed markets such as the U.S.
Canada and Australia.
Also we're continuing to focus on emerging markets which is an important part of our corporate strategy.
So we're increasing the snacks capacity at our plant in Thailand and as we've already mentioned we're also adding cereal capacity in India and capacity for Pringles in Malaysia and in Poland.
To be clear this is capacity we're adding to service international demand.
It's not product that will be shipped to North America.
In addition we're also making good progress with our move to global business services.
So we've got a lot underway and we'll provide further update at CAGNY in a few weeks.
The primary goal of Project K is to enable us to invest behind the business and Slide 6 shows a framework which highlights the various areas of this reinvestment.
We think of the purchase model in 3 distinct phases: Desire Decide and Delight.
The first of these Desire is the area of investment we normally associate with our advertising investment.
Decide is about winning in store and includes engaging consumers at the shelf packaging assortment and in-store merchandising.
And Delight really closes the loop.
This is about the consumer experience and it's largely about our product offering and quality.
Project K has been investing back into all 3 of these areas.
So first let me give you some examples in Desire.
We will invest back behind our brands and specifically to address some of the category issues we see today.
This is not about more money behind the existing work.
It's about better allocating investment and adding additional resources as part of Project K behind an initiative design to re-stimulate category growth.
We will do this by leveraging the strongest brand in the category worldwide and that is the Kellogg brand itself.
Over the last 6 months we've been working to create a calendar of initiatives including a campaign to reinforce the values of cereal and the role Kellogg plays in bringing that to the consumer.
We'll be initiating campaigns in our core markets by the second quarter under the idea of Kellogg's cereal breakfast.
We are excited by these ideas and the work we've seen so far.
The next step is Decide which is the conversion of the shopper in the store.
This includes investment in things like packaging shopper programs mobile in-store ads and display.
We currently have brands that respond well to display and in-store theater and we're working to improve our vehicles for better presentation to the shopper.
We have some industry-leading in-store partnerships with ESPN GameDay the Olympics and key movie properties.
In addition as part of Project K we're increasing our investment in our coverage model for DSD in our U.S.
Snacks business including investing in better technology for our reps.
And finally we will also invest back in our food to delight consumers.
There are various ways we can do this.
We realize the ground continues to shift rapidly in consumer sentiment around nutrition and the values being placed on food.
So we will continue to develop new foods to address these evolving consumer requirements like Raisin Bran with Omega-3 and Special K Nourish with quinoa.
We will constantly strive to maintain and improve the quality of our products.
We'll do more with our packaging and we'll develop new ideas like our new granola in resealable bags.
So as you can see the scope and scale of our whole path-to-purchase model and that we have an opportunity to drive significant growth through further investment in all these areas.
I recognize that because we are planning to invest in advertising in-store execution and in the design and quality of our food it'll be more difficult for you to track the investment.
However each of these areas will help drive future returns and are the right places for us to focus.
Again we'll come back at CAGNY with more detail regarding what we're doing.
With that I'll turn it over to Ron for a review of our quarterly and full year financial results.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide 7 shows our performance for the quarter and the full year and excludes charges related to Project K and mark-to-market for pensions and commodities.
Internal net sales for the full year increased by 0.3%.
We delivered solid sales growth in Europe Latin America and Asia-Pacific in the quarter and for the full year.
But sales declined in our 2 key U.S.
businesses impacting both quarterly and full year revenue growth.
Underlying internal operating profit increased by 1.3% for the full year and increased by 8.8% in the fourth quarter.
The strong quarterly result was largely due to net deflation in cost of goods sold the timing of brand-building as we were lapping significant growth in the fourth quarter of 2012 and a lower year over -- impact from our base upfront cost excluding Project K.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs marked-to-market adjustments and Project K costs were $0.83 per share in the fourth quarter and $3.77 per share for the full year in line with our expectations.
The comparable results in the quarter benefited from a lower tax rate due to some discrete items that concluded late in the fourth quarter.
Reported earnings per share for the full year were $4.94.
This included a substantial benefit from the mark-to-market accounting for pensions due to both asset returns and movements and interest rates.
This was partially offset by $0.13 of Pringles integration costs and $0.42 of costs related to Project K.
Slide 8 shows the components of the full year and quarterly sales growth.
For the full year reported sales increased by 4.2% and internal sales growth was 0.3%.
For the fourth quarter reported net sales declined by 1.7% and internal net sales declined by 0.9% on top of a 5% comp.
This was primarily due to the weakness in the U.S.
cereal and snacks businesses I mentioned earlier.
Internal volume declined by 0.5 point for the full year and 1.6% in the fourth quarter.
While we experienced softer volume in some developed cereal markets and in U.S.
Snacks we saw strong volume growth in snacks outside the U.S.
and in our U.S.
Frozen Foods business.
We also posted improvements in price/mix in both the quarter and for the full year.
And of course Pringles is most of the 4.6% full year growth from acquisitions.
The impact of currency translation reduced sales growth by 0.7% for the full year and by 0.8% in the fourth quarter.
Slide 9 shows our gross margin performance during 2013.
As we expected we saw good margin improvement of 60 basis points in the quarter.
As we've discussed earlier in the year our productivity savings built throughout the year and savings in the fourth quarter were approximately 5% of cost of goods.
And we also saw a moderation in gross inflation to approximately 4% in the fourth quarter.
So we experienced net deflation and benefited from the timing of upfront costs.
We did see some offset from reduced operating leverage due to the sales softness in our U.S.
categories.
Full year gross margin declined by slightly more than 1% approximately in line with our expectations.
Net cost of goods inflation of approximately 1 point and lower operating leverage were key drivers of our performance resulting in around 70 basis points of decline on a comparable basis.
The full year impact of the inclusion of the Pringles business in the results was a decline of around 40 basis points.
Slide 10 shows the operating profit performance for each of the regions in the fourth quarter.
The operating profit growth on the chart excludes charges for Project K.
As I mentioned earlier underlying internal operating profit for the total company increased by 8.8%.
North America's underlying internal operating profit decreased by 2.9% and this was primarily driven by sales declines in Morning Foods Snacks in Canada.
Underlying internal operating profit increased by 15.3% in Europe.
This was the result of good sales growth and the impact of comparisons.
Underlying internal operating profit in Latin America decreased by 4.7%.
While we recognized solid sales growth in the region we experienced some disruption to our product supply due to the difficult operating environment in Venezuela.
This resulted in higher cost of goods sold and reduced operating leverage.
And in Asia-Pacific we saw a significant increase in underlying internal operating profit due to solid sales growth and a significant investment in upfront cost in the region in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 which shows our cash flow performance.
Cash flow from operations before capital spending was $1 807 000 000 for the full year in line with our expectations.
This was an increase of $49 million over 2012 and remember 2012 included a onetime benefit of approximately $150 million from the Pringles acquisition.
So we're pleased with our cash flow generation in 2013 which was towards the high end of our guidance range.
Capital spending for 2013 was $637 million a year-over-year increase of approximately $104 million.
This was slightly more than 4% of sales.
And you'll recall that we were expecting capital spending this year to be greater than the high end of our long-term target range as we invest in additional capital for Pringles and the new plant in India and because of some shift of investment we saw from late 2012 into 2013.
We purchased $544 million of shares in 2013.
We do expect to go back to our normal share repurchase activity in 2014 and it will reduce the overall average share count by between 1.5% and 2%.
And finally we have made progress on reducing debt levels since the acquisition of Pringles.
In fact we've decreased our levels of debt by approximately $900 million over the last 18 months.
Slide 12 details our guidance for 2014.
We're giving pragmatic guidance for growth for the full year.
Project K will provide some funding to increase investment in certain businesses and categories in which we compete.
We expect that internal net sales will be up approximately 1% in 2014.
This excludes any impact from integration costs the impact of currency translation and this year's 53rd week.
The 53rd week should add a little more than 1 point to reported sales growth.
We continue to expect moderate material-related inflation in 2014.
Total cost of goods inflation is estimated to be in the range of 3% to 4%.
This is before the benefit from productivity which we estimate to be toward the high end of our long-term target range of 3% to 4% of cost of goods.
In addition we will recognize some savings from Project K in cost of goods sold.
So we expect a moderate amount of net deflation overall.
As a result we anticipate that underlying reported gross margin will increase by approximately 40 to 50 basis points including the benefit we'll realize from Project K impacting our supply chain.
Underlying internal operating profit is estimated to be flat to up 2%.
We expect that brand-building will increase faster than sales growth including the reinvestment of savings from Project K.
We also have a little more than 1 point of headwind from incentive compensation due to our performance in 2013.
And we're planning for some impact from the new food tax in Mexico and a more difficult regulatory environment in the Latin America region.
Finally on operating profit.
The 53rd week should add approximately 1.5 to 2 points to reported operating profit growth for the year.
We expect the currency-neutral comparable earnings per share will increase at a rate between 1% and 3% in 2014.
The underlying tax rate is estimated to be between 29% and 30% and interest expense will be between $225 million and $235 million.
Our reported EPS was $4.94 including the impact of mark-to-market in 2013 and there's a walk in the appendix that shows all the components of our results.
Slide 13 shows our EPS walk for 2014.
First we have adjusted our 2013 base earnings per share to remove the upfront costs of $0.08 per share incurred in 2013.
While we will continue to invest in productivity initiatives we are bundling all of our upfront costs into Project K for simplicity's sake and we'll exclude them from our underlying results.
Earnings per share growth of 1% to 3% puts us in a range of $3.89 to $3.97 a share.
We currently estimate that currency translation will not have an impact on results.
Although it's important to note that this doesn't include the impact of any significant currency devaluations we might see during the year for example Venezuela.
In addition we estimate that the 53rd week will add approximately $0.08 per share.
We expect 1 more year of costs related to the integration of Pringles and we estimate between $0.07 and $0.09 per share in 2014 primarily related to our go-to-market model.
This puts us more toward the high end of our original estimate for integration cost but synergies have exceeded the high end of our $50 million to $75 million range too.
And we're expecting incremental savings from Project K will be in the range of $50 million to $60 million for the full year approximately 40% of which will come from cost of goods.
As John said it is our intention to reinvest these savings in growth initiatives.
Costs related to the project are estimated to be approximately $300 million to $350 million or $0.60 to $0.65 per share in 2014 with approximately 1/2 in cost of goods sold.
But I should point out that we could see initiatives shift between years as we progress through the project and obviously we'll update you if this occurs.
Our estimate is that total pretax costs over the life of the project will be between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion and our estimate is that annual savings will be between $425 million and $475 million by 2018.
Both of these estimates are unchanged from our initial guidance last quarter.
We expect the cash flow in 2014 will be between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
This includes capital spending and additional cash required by Project K.
This will be partially offset by an initiative in accounts payable to reduce our working capital.
This is already underway.
We anticipate that total capital spending will be in the range of 4% to 5% of sales as we mentioned last quarter and this will include investment in Project K and the additional capacity for Pringles.
Last a few comments on the first quarter of 2014.
We expect that the sales trends we've seen in several of our businesses in 2013 will continue into 2014 and first quarter sales could be down slightly.
We also expect that underlying gross margin in the first quarter will be flat to down slightly driven by operating leverage and the timing of our productivity savings during the year.
This will lead to lower underlying operating profit and comparable earnings per share including currency in the range of $0.95 to $0.98 per share.
Of course our guidance on operating profit and earnings per share excludes the impact of mark-to-market adjustments integration costs and Project K costs.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for more detail on the operating segments.
Thanks Ron.
Now let's look at Slide 15 and some more detail regarding Morning Foods.
Sales declined by 4% in the fourth quarter although we're lapping mid-single-digit growth the most difficult comparison of the year.
Consumption in the cereal category remained lower than we had initially expected as merchandising and display were down.
The adult segment of the portfolio remained weak and we saw lower year-over-year retail inventories which had an effect on shipments in the quarter.
We saw some good growth in parts of our portfolio.
For example Raisin Bran grew strongly driven by innovation and advertising as part of our healthy dividends campaign.
This program is aimed at baby boomers and highlights the health benefits of our products.
It's a campaign that has resonated with consumers and is an example of the type of activity that we'll be doing more of in the future.
We've got more activity planned in 2014 including new product introductions such as the new Special K Chocolate Almond the Krave cereal Touch of Fruit Mini-Wheats Bear Naked granola and new Kashi cereals including 3 varieties of Organic Promise all of which are GMO-free.
You'll see on Slide 16 that we're very happy to be celebrating Pop-Tarts' 50th anniversary in 2014.
This is an iconic brand that has just completed its 31st consecutive year of growth.
Core and new products continue to drive this and the brand feels as young today as it ever has.
Pop-Tarts gained 0.6 point share over the last 52-week period on consumption growth of 3.4% and full year category share was 84.4%.
The 2 Peanut Butter Pop-Tarts we launched in 2013 continued to do well in the fourth quarter and also contributed to full year results.
We have bigger commercial plans coming in 2014 as part of the Olympics program and the Crazy Good summer campaign.
And in some of the other categories in Morning Foods we're following up last year's launch of our drinkable breakfast products with new Coffee House versions.
These new flavors include chocolate mocha and vanilla cappuccino and will make a great addition to our existing lineup.
In addition the new Special K Hot Cereals we launched last year have also been doing well.
Finally for Morning Foods we have a number of exciting commercial plans scheduled for 2014.
These include the Olympics sponsorship I mentioned which is underway now a Share Your Breakfast program in March and Kellogg masterbrand category-building programs to come later in the year.
Some of these particularly the ones later in the year will be part of the reinvestment program related to Project K.
We expect that these category-related activities will improve the relevancy of the cereal category progressively over time.
Now let's turn to Slide 17 and our U.S.
Snacks segment.
Both shipments and consumption increased in the cracker business in the fourth quarter and share remained essentially flat.
We had strong merchandising during the holiday season and Town House Pita and Cheez-It Zings both of which were midyear innovations continued to do well.
Consumption of Town House crackers increased significantly due to both the innovation and share gains posted by the original variety.
Cheez-It Zings also contributed incremental growth as base Cheez-Its also grew.
Partially offsetting this growth were some weakness in the Special K Cracker business as well as strong comparisons in the second half of 2012.
We have some good innovation coming in this category in 2014.
We have just launched Cheez-It Grooves which is off to a good start as is the cracker business as a whole.
The Keebler brand in total posted slight internal net sales growth due to good results from Fudge Shoppe in the fourth quarter.
And we have some exciting new product news coming later in the first quarter on Chips Deluxe.
However the cookie business as a whole declined in the fourth quarter.
This was partially driven by reductions in inventory although we saw weakness in some of our brands including Mother's and Murray Sugar Free.
In the wholesome snacks business Nutri-Grain again gained share in the quarter driven by Nutri-Grain Crunch and we also saw good performance from Rice Krispies Treats.
However this growth was more than offset by weakness in other parts of the portfolio and lower inventories at retail.
So we saw growth in the wholesome snack business where we've innovated but frankly we've been disappointed with the performance of this business.
So we're changing direction and are planning innovation and advertising that returns the core in both Special K and Nutri-Grain brands.
And with Kashi much like we're doing in cereal we're returning the brand to its roots.
So we're taking the right steps to drive improvement over time.
Finally for snacks.
Our Pringles business posted strong double-digit internal net sales growth as a result of good consumption and the shipment of the new Tortilla innovation I mentioned earlier.
Pringles had a very strong year in 2013 despite some difficult comparisons and we remain optimistic given the early results from the launch of new products and a strong commercial calendar.
While we don't expect continued double-digit growth we are excited by the potential growth of this great business.
So in summary the snacks business had a difficult year in 2013 and 2014 will be a rebuilding year as we continue to focus on what's working and also on investment and innovation and better in-store execution.
We recognize that we've got a lot to do in this business and the team has been working hard on their plan.
Now let's turn to Slide 18 and the strong performance of the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Internal net sales growth was 5.1% in the fourth quarter and was 4.1% for the full year.
In the 12-week consumption data Kellogg gained share in the Convenience channel in the cereal cracker and health and wellness categories.
Innovation distribution and pricing drove good internal sales growth in the fourth quarter and strong double-digit growth for the full year in the channel.
Our Cereal in a Cup products have continued to perform well in this channel as have breakfast shakes and our new launches in the cereal bar segment.
Pringles also did well in the quarter and posted double-digit internal sales growth and share gains for the full year.
In Foodservice we renovated a significant number of SKUs in the K-12 schools business where we posted double-digit sales growth as a result.
In fact the overall Foodservice business outperformed the soft category to impart the good results from the Eggo brand.
Now let's turn to Slide 19 which shows detail regarding the North America Other segment.
This segment which includes the Canadian and U.S.
Frozen Foods business posted an internal sales decrease of 2.9% in the quarter against a double-digit growth comparison.
In the fourth quarter internal net sales in Frozen Foods business increased at a low-single-digit rate as we were lapping the most difficult comparisons of the year.
You'll remember that we launched Special K flatbread sandwiches in the second half of last year which contributed to the very strong double-digit sales growth we posted in both the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Our core Eggo business did well in the fourth quarter of 2013 as both the kid and family segments posted good rates of growth and we drove new brand-building activities.
Special K flatbread sandwiches benefited from the launch of a new Deluxe Egg and Cheese version in the second half which also contributed.
A new bacon variety is going into the market now and we expect that this and last year's innovation will both contribute to results in 2014.
We also saw double-digit growth in the burger segment of our Morningstar Farms portfolio and momentum in the poultry segment driven by new product introductions in the middle of the year.
It's worth noting that we will take some SKUs out of the Kashi Frozen Foods portfolio in 2014 which will have an adverse impact on sales growth.
And our Canadian business ended the full year with a decline in internal sales of less than 1%.
This was partially due to comps later in the year but we also saw weakness in the cereal category throughout most of the year much like in the U.S.
Now let's turn to Slide 20 and our international businesses.
All of our international regions posted internal sales growth for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
The European business posted good results in the fourth quarter with internal sales growth of 1.2% and double-digit operating profit growth.
Internal sales growth for the full year was 1.7%.
Pringles continued to post good results in the fourth quarter as it has full year.
Broader competitive conditions in both the U.K.
and on the continent remain challenging.
The cereal category in the U.K.
continued to be difficult although our new Crunchy Nut Granola contributed to sales and Crunchy Nut Rice Krispies and Corn Flakes all gained share.
Special K will remain a focus for us in 2014 in the U.K.
and we have both new commercial plans and the introduction of Special K granola coming during the year.
The Pringles business in the U.K.
gained 1.7 points of share as commercial pressure good in-store execution and strong commercial plans all contributed.
We posted mid-single-digit growth in our European emerging markets which include the Middle East and Russia and we are pleased with the results in these developing growth regions.
However Southern Europe remains challenging.
So we had encouraging results in Europe in 2013.
We saw good rates of growth in various businesses and Pringles was a significant contributor.
And we achieved the top and bottom line growth we expected.
We have some good innovation and commercial plans coming and we expect to post top and bottom line growth again this year.
However the environment in the region remains very difficult and we believe we have pragmatic expectations for the business in 2014.
Slide 21 shows this year's performance in the Latin American region.
Internal net sales growth was 3% in the fourth quarter against a 9% comparison in the fourth quarter of last year.
The cereal category in Mexico has slowed somewhat particularly in the adult-oriented segment of the portfolio.
Despite this Kellogg gained 0.7 point share in the most recent quarter of consumption data.
The snack categories saw declines in consumption in the latest data but Kellogg again gained 2 points of share as a result of our mid-single-digit rate of sales growth.
Also in the region we saw good results in Brazil and in the Pringles business which posted high-single-digit internal sales growth.
Economic conditions continue to be difficult in Mexico and the recently imposed tax on food and beverages could have a significant effect on sales in several key categories.
Consumers are faced with a double-digit price increase on January 1.
We expect that we will see more of an adverse impact in the first half of the year as consumers adjust to the new prices.
And while we believe the team is planning appropriately this and the continuing uncertainty in Venezuela will limit sales growth in 2014.
And finally on Slide 22 is detail on the Asia-Pacific business.
This segment posted internal sales growth of 4% in the fourth quarter and full year growth of 3%.
The Japanese South Korean Indian Southeast Asian and Pringles businesses all posted strong rates of growth in the quarter.
In fact the Asian business saw double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
Granola has continued to do well in Japan.
Pringles gained share in many countries.
And both Special K Cracker Chips and Biscuit Moments both examples of innovation that has traveled from other regions have done well in Australia.
The cereal category in Australia saw declines in consumption in the fourth quarter.
We believe the category-building activity will also help to drive this business and we are currently formulating plans that we believe will begin to address this issue.
However we remain cautious on cereal in Australia as we go into 2014.
And now I'll open up for questions before coming back with a brief summary.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede.
Research Division</strong> John you talked about your plans to invest in Desire Decide Delight.
Where do you think is the biggest gap right now? Where's the biggest opportunity to really move the business? And what kind of steps are the most promising to tackle that? Thilo there's a couple ways of thinking about that question and I think the answer depends a little bit by business.
So if we look at the cereal business particularly in some of the large developed markets I think it's primarily a Desire opportunity a category relevance opportunity.
And so you'll see us investing back more in our developed cereal business in category-building activities category-relevance activities in markets like the U.S.
U.K.
Australia and Canada.
We'll also selectively invest back in Delight.
There is some food investment opportunities there as well.
If I go to the snacks business in the U.S.
I think the opportunity in snacks is more in the Decide phase.
It's more about in-store execution.
And so what you're seeing us do there is invest back into our U.S.
sales organization invest back into the DSD system specifically and reduce the number of stores per route so our people can spend more time in store and execute more effectively.
Research Division</strong> So on cereal you're still not of the view that cereal in the U.S.
is a structurally broken category? No absolutely not.
If I step back and talk about the cereal category for a minute and I'll use the U.S.
as an example the breakfast occasion in the U.S.
is actually still growing.
If you look at the range of food items consumed at breakfast in the U.S.
in the home it's actually up about 3% through the back part of last year.
And in that context cereal is the #1 item consumed at breakfast and has a very high household penetration.
When we look at what's happening within cereal we're losing people to other categories such as eggs toast peanut butter yogurt et cetera.
We're not losing people to any one category in particular.
And when we ask people why they're leaving there's no one negative item and in fact there's no real negative item.
In fact when we talk to consumers about why they're eating less cereal we call it an unconscious migration because the answer we get is generally "I didn't realize I was eating less cereal in the week." So as we think about what we need to do on cereal is we need to tell our story more effectively about the benefits of eating cereal for breakfast.
One way to think about that is to move our model from a focus on winning in the cereal category brand versus brand within cereal to winning with cereal at the breakfast occasion and looking at the benefits and communicating the benefits of cereals to the consumers relative to some of the other alternatives at the broader breakfast occasion.
And while the challenge for us to do that is to do that in a way that we own the outcome we own the growth in the category.
And we think we can do that by activating the strongest brand we have which is the Kellogg brand.
And to put that into context Kellogg is the #1 food CPG brand as ranked by Interbrand.
So we have strong insights and messaging around the benefits of cereal using the Kellogg masterbrand and you'll see more of that category-building activity as we go through the middle of this year in some of these major cereal markets.
And we believe we can absolutely win with cereal at the breakfast occasion.
The next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- I've got 2 questions.
The first one is on your inflation guidance.
Can you guys just talk about -- I think you said gross inflation up 3% to 4% and I believe that would build on top of the 5% in 2013.
Can you just discuss the key factors that are impacting gross inflation for Kellogg? And then I have a follow-up question I'd like to ask on snack bars.
Sure David.
On the gross inflation so we're seeing inflation across a number of components of our cost of goods structure.
First we are seeing deflation in some of the key grades that you can see on the exchanges.
But probably 80% of our material cost base we're still seeing inflation.
Things like packaging and energy are inflating significantly.
That's having an impact on our cost structure.
In addition to that we've got increases in some of our factory investment and wages as well.
So when you wrap it all up we're still seeing around 3% to 4% of cost inflation.
But remember I said overall we are expecting to see net deflation because of our strong productivity improvement programs and as well as some of the savings we get off Project K.
Research Division</strong> And then on the snack bars John the Nielsen data on snack bars looks pretty bad.
I mean sometimes I see down mid-teens on snack bars.
Number one is it -- it's a grain-based product.
Is it related to the issues in cereal? Is it related to a lack of focus on granola? Is it just you're zigging when you should have zagged or something like that? Why such extraordinarily kind of negative results in a category that still looks like a good category? David I think we still believe the wholesome snacks business is absolutely a good category to be in.
To be frank we're disappointed by the performance of our wholesome snacks business.
If we peel the onion back Nutri-Grain and Rice Krispies Treats actually are still doing reasonably well in the category.
We have some weakness specifically around Special K and FiberPlus.
As I said in the prepared remarks we need to focus back on the core within these wholesome snacks.
And as we look at 2014 we expect this business to continue to be a challenge.
But I think a big part for us to win in this business strong innovation brand building and in-store execution and particularly the area of in-store execution where I think we have an opportunity to reinvest back within our DSD organization and improve the execution in store over time.
So we have a good core business.
We probably had some innovation in that business that hasn't stuck in the marketplace.
It's a bit of a drag on us and we need to focus back on the core improve some of the core food and improve the in-store execution as well.
Research Division</strong> And John just comment though on the interaction though between the snack bar problems and the cereal problems.
I mean a lot of people ask me about carbohydrates.
What's your opinion here on the issues whether they are related? I believe the wholesome snacks business which we position largely as breakfast on the go is still a category that can continue to grow as it meets the needs of consumers more portable breakfast solutions.
So I think that one has a good category opportunity.
I think with cereal we just have a lot of different alternatives to that breakfast occasion.
And if you look at our share of voice it's probably been declining over time at a category level relative to some of that competition.
And we have an opportunity to sharpen our messaging to increase our investment a little bit and drive the relevance of the cereal category back.
So I see them as 2 distinct discussions.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As we look at the measured channel data for the cereal category I understand you're investing across the breakfast opportunity trying to increase relevance.
One of the things that I still find a little concerning is just the weakness.
In a way it seems to be concentrated in some of the core franchises in some of the more enduring brands within your portfolio like Special K like Mini-Wheats.
So on those brands in particular are there specific issues of merchandising or innovation timing? Have you held back ahead of the Olympics activity or are you seeing anything -- any sort of broader pressure on those brands? And just on Special K in particular also if you could address the protein line extension and sort of whether that's proven to be incremental or not to the overall brand.
Thank you Matthew.
So I think if you look at brands like Mini-Wheats you're actually seeing that brand strengthen over time.
And if you look at brands like Raisin Bran you're actually seeing good growth when we get behind a healthy dividends-type messaging.
So when we have clear insights good messaging we can absolutely drive these businesses.
And I think if you're looking within some of the more recent consumption data say some of the published data in January I think you are seeing some timing of activity between our Olympics activity which is more February and our Share Your Breakfast activity which is March as opposed to January.
What I will say in January on Special K specifically is we did not have as strong a resolution event as we would have hoped.
And that is some short-term softness in Special K as a result in January.
There is a broader macro trend against some of these weight management-type propositions not just Special K in cereal but some other similar propositions in other categories.
And there is some general softness in that.
Special K remains a very strong brand.
I think we need to re-amp the messaging and find another angle in with the consumers.
We have some work to do on Special K in general.
I think that is part of the weakness we're seeing in the category not just in the U.S.
but some of the other developed markets.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about cereal again.
Did you consider John making a deeper investment this year to try to rebound to help the category rebound? When I look at how much you're actually spending incrementally it really isn't that much.
It sounds like it's more a shift in resources to more umbrella advertising for the Kellogg brand a masterbrand strategy.
Is that going to be enough? Did you consider making a bigger investment? And then secondly on masterbrand advertising I've seen the attitude towards that kind of wax and wane in consumer packaged foods.
Campbell tried it and then shifted right back again.
What makes you think that masterbrand can really work this time? Well Robert we have not really activated Kellogg for a very long period of time.
It's a very strong brand so we're very confident that that brand has the capability of engaging consumers back into the category in a way that we can uniquely own.
At the same time being pragmatic we haven't had these programs in market yet.
So your question about whether we would double or triple down on the investment I think we want to see it work before we drive a large amount of investment into it.
And it's worth remembering to your point that while we are adding more brand building we spend $1.5 billion a year in brand building.
We have a lot of brand-building fuel in the engine.
And if we find these programs really drive the business we'll probably reorient money we already have as opposed to have to add a whole new money into the category.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in the thinking behind excluding upfront costs.
Kellogg used to openly pride itself on keeping these costs in.
They were a normal part of doing business.
But now this thinking has been reversed and I'm not sure why other than to frankly optically drive EPS higher.
So my question is this.
If these are ongoing costs and they happen every year and they've been similar in EPS impact most years why should we exclude them? What's different about these upfront costs than the investments every food company does each quarter? Ken as you saw within the information that we shared on our guidance we clearly stated the amount of upfront cost change in 2013 and added that back before we grew the 1% to 3% in terms of our guidance.
We think it's simpler rather than trying to dissect our investments in upfront costs between base upfront cost and Project K.
We think it's simpler and cleaner to just bundle everything together over the life of Project K and exclude them from our underlying results.
So there's really nothing more than that.
We do still have a small element of base upfront costs that we're including in our total project investment so that we can drive additional productivity investments and savings in the 3% to 4% base productivity that we strive to achieve each year.
Your next question comes from John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John when you speak to the investment in your DSD system going forward and I guess some of the technologies there are there certain competitive deficiencies that you've noticed in terms of technology execution? Is it part of the normal replacement cycle? Just any thoughts there in terms of your observations on DSD either on isolation or versus your competitors.
John as we look at that DSD business we think we have the ability to be more effective by providing them with new tools.
So we have new iPad-type based programs applications to help them be more effective in store.
In addition to that we are reducing the coverage rates so we're going from -- each route being about 18 stores down to 12 stores pretty meaningful move there.
In terms of our competitive position we have quite frankly the model is split [indiscernible] has occurred.
That large sales organization is focused on a much smaller part of business and that has been a competitive headwind for us and we are looking to ensure that we have the right resources in store to drive that business forward.
Your next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last comment John.
As you reduce the -- or improve the coverage rate I guess my question is -- inherently it makes sense but how do you do that in a I guess cost-effective way? Because obviously just the overall scale right of your DSD business versus that of Mondelez I would assume makes DSD system a pretty fixed cost-intensive system that much tougher to start with let alone the scale differential.
I'm trying to get a sense how you do that or does that just hit margins for a period of time here or reset the margin base? And then secondly I'm just curious and this is probably better asked to others do you get a feeling that other players or a player in the U.S.
cereal category will also try and kind of activate or help restimulate the category as a whole as opposed to again just a specific kind of brand versus brand type of stuff? Just from what you may see in the industry.
Well Andrew first on the snacks investment the investment is actually not as large as it might sound.
We spend a lot of money getting the product to the store and then we just need to have a little bit more resources activating it actually in the store itself.
So it's not a significant investment as it might sound in terms of reducing the store coverage as I said earlier.
It is however important for us to win in store to make sure that we have the resources in place to build the displays and to get the activation going.
On cereal we're focused on driving our business which will drive the category.
I believe the dynamics we're seeing in the cereal category holds true for us as it does for other manufacturers.
And as we look over time what drives this category is health and wellness brand building great food and we're focused on driving the business in a sustainable way that will grow the category.
I can't talk to how other manufacturers will react and what their plans will be but I believe if you look back over time this is a very consistent message in terms of what has driven the category historically.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just let me get on a soapbox for 1 second.
I disagree with Ken.
I think everybody else has been -- most companies Hershey others have been excluding tons of charges.
And so I think it's perfectly reasonable for you too.
Ultimately it's what the cash cost is not what the earnings is.
So I don't have a problem with that.
But looking at your -- kind of where 2014 and I recognize that things are challenging and it's a transition year but it sounds like the $0.08 of upfront and the $0.08 of the 53rd week plus you're going to be doing more buybacks of 1.5%.
So is net income actually down here for the year x currency assuming that still is neutral? Let me walk you through our guidance Eric.
First of all we said approximately 1 point in terms of our sales growth.
So that's driving call it around $60 million worth of profit accretion.
And then we also said we have a little bit of net deflation.
It's a little less than 1 point and that includes Project K savings.
It's driving our gross margin expansion.
That's probably $60 million or so also of profit accretion.
From there we're investing back in brand building at a rate faster than sales and advertising also at a rate faster than sales.
And then John has been talking about investing in capability the sales execution the category teams that we've put in place and some investment in R&amp;D as well.
And we've got a little more than 1 point as I said on incentive compensation headwind.
We are growing operating profit and net income relatively flat as a result of the share repurchase program.
So when you move to earnings per share going from flat to up -- to an operating profit up 1% to up 3% we're getting about 1.5 to 2 points accretion related to the share repurchase program.
And then we do have a little bit of headwind from tax expense.
We had a lower tax rate in 2013 versus what we're expecting in 2014.
So we're basically getting about 1 point of accretion below operating profit really attributable to our share repurchase program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a more I guess just operations standpoint can you remind me of like what is on the DSD truck in terms of your brands now? And is there any consideration of what's going to shift? I mean obviously Pop-Tarts is doing well on its own and that hasn't been on the truck.
But is there shifts in what you're going to put through warehouse versus what's on the truck as part of this efficiency move? So Eric we have 3 big businesses that go through the DSD system.
There's crackers cookies wholesome snacks.
We have a fourth segment which is part of our snacks business which is Pringles which goes warehouse.
To answer your question we have no plans to change that dramatically.
We have a tremendous DSD system.
It's an incredible execution machine.
It's great ability to drive the cookie cracker and wholesome snacks business.
We just need to invest a little bit back behind that system and ensure it's set up for success.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Varun Gokarn in for Jason.
My question is on cereal.
You mentioned focused advertising that communicates the benefits of cereal as an overall category but much of the recent market share weakness that your brand is seeing has to do with promotional intensity from your primary competitor which in a recent Nielsen data we're looking at you're not currently matching.
So when you talk about reinvestment how do you balance the need for tactical pricing adjustment versus advertising on overall category and versus innovation? I sit back and look at the cereal category.
It's always an intensively competitive category.
And I don't believe it's any more competitive today or any less than it has been historically.
So I think the category is fundamentally rational.
When you look at what drives this category again it's health and wellness brand building innovation great food.
It's not constantly driving down prices.
Empirically you go back to 1996 and 2010 when prices came down in the category the category did not grow.
So we are focused on driving our business the right way.
We are and will remain competitive in the category and what you see from time to time is the natural ebbs and flows of competitive activity.
So for example we have a little bit less activity out there in January relative to January last year but we have a strong Olympics program in February.
So I'm not sure what data specifically you're looking at but be careful not to overreact to short-term movements in data from 1 month to the next in the category.
Your next question comes from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So there's been some commentary about Millennials being less loyal to big established brands than older consumers.
I'm thinking specifically in snack bars.
We're seeing the rise of some niche brands in there which is a reversal of previous trends over the last several years.
Does that make it harder for Kellogg to gain share over time and would you consider acquiring some of those niche brands to bolster growth over time and shift the portfolio into a faster-growing product? So Alexia I think we would look at that from all angles.
Firstly if there is something that is interesting to acquire as you've seen in the past we have done that.
I think also as I said before in the Desire Decide Delight continuum we have an opportunity to invest some more money back in the Delight side in other words invest more money back into food.
I think what you're seeing sometimes in Millennials is not so much lack of brand loyalty as they're looking for different food values and some of the pre-existing businesses don't always meet their needs.
And so within our portfolio we need to have choice.
We have some great brands in the portfolio that do lean towards those Millennials and I think in those brands we need to ensure the food really is meeting their requirements.
Your final question will come from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you John in relation to your revenue growth in 2014.
I guess as a global comment do you expect cereal sales to grow? Or maybe I'm just trying to get the balance between cereal and snacks growth in '14 and maybe how those investments could benefit the cereal category throughout the year.
We will have elements of cereal growth throughout the year.
So as I said for example in Asia-Pacific we're seeing some good growth outside of the market like Australia.
As we think about the big developed supermarkets which is where we have our challenges right now I think for very similar consistent reasons we need to talk more about the nutritional benefits of cereal to our consumers in those markets.
While I'm excited about the plans we have for 2014 as we set the guidance we've set we're going to be pragmatic that I expect those categories and quite frankly ourselves in those categories to be down year-on-year slightly low single digits.
And because those big developed markets are such a big percentage of the cereal business that means it's going to be a drag on our cereal sales in the year.
Obviously we're driving to have a better performance in U.S.
Snacks in 2014.
And we are having tremendous success with Pringles which will continue to help drive our snacks business as well as some of wholesome snacks offerings we have globally.
So I do expect a better performance out of the snacks business and the cereal business in 2014.
Long term I'm very confident in the potential growth of the cereal category and our cereal business but I think it's best to be pragmatic as we look in 2014 around that business specifically.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow on that as you talk about these investments in the category and reiterating the category -- the important aspects of the category to the consumer is that happening now or is that more about in the future as you get these savings coming through? Are you making the brand message to consumer now is my question.
It's really more Q2 Q3 of 2014.
And that's not due to savings.
That's just due to when the programs are ready and the best time to put them into the year given other calendar events.
For example the Olympics is sitting right in February.
So we need separation between activation so we don't submerge and confuse the message to consumers.
And now if I could take a moment to make some concluding remarks.
First thank you everyone for joining us today.
We faced a difficult environment in 2013 in developed regions and we expect that this will continue in 2014.
However as I've highlighted today we have plans to address this.
In fact over the last couple of years we've made significant strides with our broader strategy which hasn't changed and the plans we've talked about today fit in well with this strategy.
We improved our supply chain organization.
We completed the successful acquisition of Pringles which has exceeded our expectations and has provided us with a global snacks platform.
We announced and started to implement Project K a 4-year efficiency and effectiveness program and the largest in the company's history.
And we're developing and investing in ideas that will drive growth in the future.
We recognize the challenges that we have and we're taking meaningful actions that will begin to address them.
This will be a journey and will require a lot of work so I'm sure that we're making the right decisions now to drive growth in the future.
And as we continue this journey I'd again like to say thank you to all the Kellogg employees around the world.
They will make all the difference and it's their hard work that will drive our success.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks everybody for joining today.
We'll be available for follow-up as you need us.
Thanks.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Emily and good morning and thanks to everybody else for joining us today for a review of our first quarter 2014 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant President and CEO; and Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
And as you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Thursday May 8.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
We are pleased to announce first quarter results that were broadly in line with our expectations.
Operating profit was in line with guidance and earnings per share were ahead of guidance.
Our sales growth was lower than expected primarily due to ongoing weakness in our large developed cereal businesses.
However we continue to see strong results from Pringles and we are building momentum in our U.S.
Snacks business.
Project K our 4-year efficiency and effectiveness program continues to go well.
You will have seen some of the announcements we made during the quarter and we are on track to hit our targets for the project in 2014.
The execution by the team has been very good and we're pleased with the progress we've made so far.
And we're reaffirming our guidance for the full year while recognizing the impact of the difficult operating environment in some of our categories.
As you'll remember we were always expecting improved results in the second half of the year as we haven't begun the brand-building investment tied to Project K yet.
In 2014 this will include investment in category building activities in developed markets around the world and also in additional in-store capabilities in our U.S.
Snacks business.
This investment will begin in the second quarter and will build over time as will the benefits.
Ron will give you some more color on our guidance in a few minutes.
And now if you'll turn to Slide 4 we'll spend a couple of minutes discussing our progress on Project K.
The project remains on track and we continue to execute well.
Last quarter we updated you on some of the announcements we've made so far.
As you know we've announced plans to close or reduce capacity at various facilities in developed markets.
In addition we've also announced increased supply chain capacity investment in a number of emerging markets.
Since then we've announced progress with the implementation of global business services.
We've announced plans to implement a 3-tiered model which will include local regional and global services.
As part of this in the third quarter we plan to open the first regional center which will support North America.
GBS is an important part of Project K and is a major undertaking for the organization.
And Project K itself will drive significant changes.
It will allow us to build key capabilities create the supply chain we need to service our global business as it evolves and generate the savings necessary to improve results and drive future growth.
Some of these decisions are very difficult ones to make but they are necessary to drive long-term growth.
Now I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial results.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide 5 shows the first quarter's financial results.
Internal sales declined by 2.4% in the quarter although we saw improvement in March and this continued into April.
The decline in sales was primarily driven by developed cereal markets and the elasticity impact of pricing related to the food tax in Mexico.
On the positive side we saw strong growth in Pringles in each region across the globe improving trends in our U.S.
Snacks business and solid growth across Asia.
Underlying internal operating profit decreased by 5.5% which was broadly in line with our expectations.
The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by our sales performance and the timing of costs and savings within cost of goods sold across the year.
It's worth noting that the first quarter's underlying operating margin was approximately equal to the level we expect for the full year.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs mark-to-market adjustments and Project K costs were $1.01 per share in the first quarter which was ahead of our expectations due to the timing of a below the line benefit of $0.03 per share.
Without this earnings per share would have been $0.98 at the high end of our guidance.
Reported earnings per share for the quarter were $1.12 including $0.01 of Pringles integration costs $0.10 of upfront cost relates to Project K and a $0.22 benefit from mark-to-market adjustments.
Slide 6 shows the composition of the first quarter sales growth.
As I mentioned total internal sales declined by 2.4%.
We saw a total price and mix improvements of 1.1 points in the quarter with North America Europe and Latin America all posting good growth.
Volume decreased by 3.5% in the first quarter as declines in developed cereal and in Mexico were key contributors.
Unit volume declined at a slower rate as a reduction in the weight of products impacted by volume by around 1 point.
We expect improving trends in volume and continued positive price mix as we progress through the year driven by strong commercial programs and investment in our categories.
Finally the impact of currency translation decreased reported sales growth by 0.7% in the quarter primarily as a result of movement in the Canadian and Australian dollars.
Now let's look at Slide 7 which shows our underlying reported gross profit for the quarter.
Our underlying gross margin increased by 10 basis points in the quarter with improvement in price mix more than covering a slight inflationary position in cost of goods.
This was due to the timing of both costs and savings across the year.
Our cost inflation is a little more front-end weighted and the productivity we expect to get this year from Project K is more back-end loaded.
Our initiatives are on track and we have good visibility to our cost structure over the balance of the year.
We are currently covered on commodities and packaging at around 80% which is in line with previous levels of coverage at this time of the year.
Slide 8 shows the quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 6%.
Lower sales in cereal are a key contributor but the timing of cost and savings I mentioned earlier were a key factor in this region.
We also saw some effect from weather in the quarter which impacted production and distribution.
We expect improvement in the second half of the year in North America as sales and productivity improve and as we recognize some of the savings from Project K.
Internal operating profit in Europe was flat in the first quarter as the impact of the decline in sales and slightly higher brand building was offset by cost of goods performance and some pricing impact.
Internal operating profit grew 9% in Latin America.
Pricing and productivity helped drive an increase in gross margin and the timing of investment in brand building also helped the business more than offset the lower sales posted in the quarter.
Like many in the industry we saw a volume impact from the tax increase in Mexico.
And Asia Pacific posted a decrease in internal operating profit of 27% in the quarter.
This was largely due to cereal sales declines in Australia and investments in India related to brand building and the new plant we are preparing to start up in 2014.
Slide 9 shows cash flow for the quarter.
Cash flow from operations was $268 million and this was in line with our plan.
The accounts payable initiative supplier financing is also progressing according to plan.
So our full year expectations for cash flow have not changed.
Capital spending in the quarter was $97 million comparable to prior year and we continue to expect that we will invest between 4% and 5% of sales for the full year.
So free cash flow was $171 million on track to meet our expectations for between $1 billion and $1.1 billion for the full year.
And finally share repurchases this quarter were $321 million consistent with our plan to return cash to our shareowners and we still expect to reduce our average share count by between 1.5 and 2 points over the course of the year.
Now let's turn to Slide 10 which shows our guidance for 2014.
And as you can see we are reaffirming the initial guidance we provided last quarter.
We still expect that internal net sales will increase by approximately 1% for the full year.
This excludes integration costs currency translation and this year's 53rd week.
While we saw softer sales performance in our developed cereal markets in the first quarter we have stronger commercial plans and category-driving investment over the remainder of the year with key programs starting in the second quarter.
We expect our global business's internal sales to return to growth beginning in the second quarter.
We continue to expect moderate material-related inflation and that total cost of goods inflation will be between 3% and 4%.
Productivity and savings from Project K ramp up as we move through the year and should more than offset this inflation.
And as a result we continue to expect moderate net deflation for the year and still expect full year gross margin to increase by 40 to 50 basis points.
We anticipate that underlying internal operating profit will be in a range from flat to up 2% and brand building should increase at a rate greater than sales growth.
Of course this excludes the 53rd week which will add between 1.5 and 2 points to reported operating profit growth.
Currency-neutral comparable earnings are expected to increase by between 1% and 3% or to $3.89 to $3.97 per share.
The 53rd week will add approximately $0.08 per share resulting in currency-neutral earnings per share including the 53rd week of $3.97 to $4.05 which we believe is in line with the latest consensus estimates on Bloomberg.
The tax rate is still expected to be between 29% and 30% and interest expense is anticipated to be between $215 million and $225 million.
Slide 11 is an earnings per share block and is the same one we showed you last quarter.
Based on the latest spot rates we continue to estimate the currency translation will not have an impact on our results.
This excludes any potential impact from a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
And just to put it into perspective Venezuela has traditionally been about 1% of total company sales and approximately 2% of total company operating profit on a full year basis.
Our estimate for integration costs remains at $0.07 to $0.09 per share and Project K upfront costs are still expected to be between $0.60 and $0.65 per share.
Now let's turn to Slide 12 and some final comments on guidance for the year.
Cash flow is expected to be between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
And as I mentioned previously capital spending will be between 4% and 5% of sales so it is 1% higher than our normal long-term guidance due to the investments related to Project K.
I'd also like to provide some color regarding the second quarter.
We expect that we will return to top line growth but we expect underlying internal operating profit to be down slightly as a result of a significant increase in our investment in brand building.
We expect comparable currency-neutral earnings to be approximately in line with last year's results of $1.02 per share.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for more detail on the operatings.
Thanks Ron.
Now let's look at Slide 13 and some more detail regarding Morning Foods.
Sales declined by 5.5% in the quarter which was a disappointing start to the year.
Obviously we faced some challenges in the cereal category in the U.S.
but we've also faced specific issues with Special K Mini-Wheats and Kashi.
However where we focus activity we've seen better results.
The good growth I mentioned last quarter in Raisin Bran and Raisin Bran Crunch continued this quarter.
Both brands posted high-single digit consumption growth as our health related messaging continued to appeal to consumers.
So for 2014 we expect category consumption to continue to decline but at a moderating rate.
And while we expect our consumption to remain down over the remainder of the year we do expect it to be more in line with category trends.
We are very committed to the cereal category.
Let me talk more about what we're planning to do.
First we've got more activity planned for the second quarter of this year including the beginning of our category building programs.
In fact we're planning a high-single digit increase in investment in brand building in Q2 followed by continued growth in Q3.
We will focus our investment on the Desire Decide Delight framework that we highlighted last quarter and at the CAGNY conference.
The category relevancy work we have planned will highlight the nutritional benefits of cereal and milk and will also remind consumers that cereal is a healthy way to satisfy cravings for a late-night snack.
Secondly we've also got significant brand-specific activity planned including a mix of support and innovation particularly for the 3 brands I mentioned.
We've got a new program for Special K called Simple 5 that highlights that consumers can lose up to 5 pounds in 2 weeks which includes Special K products from across our portfolio.
We've got more non-GMO verified Kashi products scheduled for innovation print introduction and we're strengthening our brand-building program on Mini-Wheats which will highlight the brand's nutritious and delicious positioning.
This program will incorporate TV ads print digital and social media and of course will be tied into the broader category relevance work.
And also as part of Desire Decide Delight we will be investing to improve our in-store execution.
All of this is just a small part of each of these initiatives but hopefully you can see that we've got a lot of activity planned.
We've identified the problems we're taking actions and most importantly we believe that this activity will drive better category results and better performance of our brands.
And finally for Morning Foods our Pop-Tarts brand posted growth again in the quarter and gained almost 1 point of share.
We know improved performance in the cereal business will take some time and we're committed to these categories and are confident they will drive future growth.
Now let's turn to Slide 14 and our U.S.
Snacks segment.
Internal net sales growth was 0.3%.
As I mentioned we've had good merchandising in the Snacks business in the first quarter.
We are pleased with the overall results especially the performance we saw later in the quarter.
The cracker business posted consumption growth of 2.7% in Q1 and we gained over 1 point of share.
Innovation drove the Cheez-It brand as the White Cheddar variety and Cheez-It Zings and Grooves all contributed.
In addition original Cheez-It posted mid-single digit gains in consumption in the quarter.
The TownHouse brand also continued to do well as both the core original variety and new TownHouse Pita posted growth in consumption.
And we also posted sales growth in the cookie business as we saw improved execution and in-store activity.
The Keebler brand in total posted low-single digit growth in consumption due primarily to growth in the Fudge Shoppe and Sandies brands.
Consumption for the Chips Deluxe brand declined due to lower incremental activity but we saw very good initial results from the recent launch of 2 varieties co-branded with M&amp;Ms.
And we didn't begin activity until late in the quarter.
In the Wholesome Snacks business Rice Krispies treats again gained share and Nutri-Grain gained share and posted increased consumption as a result of Nutri-Grain Crunch.
However these good results were more than offset by weakness in Special K and FiberPlus.
We have recently launched innovation planned to address this including 2 new Special K protein bars.
With FiberPlus we are repositioning the brand around meaningful consumer benefits in addition to fiber including protein calcium and Omega-3.
So we weren't pleased with the results in the Wholesome Snacks business in the first quarter but we expect performance to improve over time.
The Pringles business posted high-single digit growth in consumption and internal net sales growth.
The 3 versions of Tortilla Pringles that we launched late last year have done very well.
The initial strong rates of trial appear to have led to good rates of repeat and we are pleased with the success of this innovation and we've only launched this idea in the U.S.
so far.
Pringles is a brand with a lot of potential both in the U.S.
and around the world and we have a strong calendar of events planned for execution this year.
So the snacks business had a better first quarter.
We've started to see improved results and the in-store activities that we've begun have been successful.
The entire team is working hard across the portfolio.
We've got good plans and we're happy with the initial reaction to the actions we've taken so far.
As a result we remain on track to deliver full year top and bottom line growth.
Now let's look at Slide 15 in the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Internal net sales declined 1.7% which was impacted by Foodservice trends resulting from adverse weather in the quarter.
As you've heard from other companies this affected much of the industry including sales to restaurants businesses and schools due to closings.
However it does seem that industry trends improved toward the end of the quarter.
We gained share in the Convenience channel in the health and wellness and cracker categories with Special K and Cheez-It driving the performance in crackers.
And Pringles also did well again this quarter and was the fastest-growing brand in the salty snack segment of the Convenience channel over the 52-week period through the end of March.
New Pringles Tortillas is getting good placement and the early sales rates are encouraging.
Slide 16 shows detail regarding the North America Other segment.
This segment which includes the U.S.
Frozen Foods and Canadian businesses posted an internal sales decline of 2.1% in the first quarter although this was lapping a high-single digit comp from last year.
Internal net sales in the Frozen Foods business decreased in the quarter.
We were lapping strong double-digit growth in the first quarter of last year primarily as a result of the introduction of Special K flatbread sandwiches late in 2012.
The overall waffle category posted a slight decline in consumption in Q1 although our Kids segment did well as both Wafflers at new Eggo Bites contributed.
In addition we expect distribution gains over the balance of the year and full year growth.
And like last quarter we posted double-digit growth in the burger segment of our Morningstar Farms business.
We posted low-single digit internal sales growth in Canada in the quarter.
The snacks business were driven by Kashi and Nutri-Grain innovation and Pop-Tarts also did well.
Pringles achieved double-digit sales growth as a result of good activity distribution gains and strong in-store execution.
We gained a small amount of cereal share in the quarter driven by good performance in the kid and all-family segments.
Now let's turn to Slide 17 in our European business.
Internal net sales in the European business declined by 1.7% in the quarter lapping 3% growth last year.
We continued to see lower rates of cereal consumption in developed markets in the quarter and we were lapping the impact of the launch of new products last year including Special K Cracker Crisps and other snacks in various parts of the region.
We saw good cereal volume growth in emerging markets particularly in the Middle East and Turkey.
We saw better performance later in the quarter in some developed markets such as France although the cereal business in most developed markets continued to be difficult.
However just like everyone in the Kellogg Company we are absolutely committed to the cereal business in Europe and we have plans for a significant increase in investment over the course of the next few quarters.
This will involve category-building initiatives that highlight the health benefits of good simple tasty and wholesome food.
The Pringles business in Europe also posted double-digit sales growth in the quarter.
And we've got strong activity planned for Pringles across the region as we are launching a broad-based soccer-themed event in Q2 and other programs later in the year.
And also in snacks you'll remember that we launched handheld breakfast products in various parts of the region last year which continue to do well posting double-digit growth in the first quarter.
So the environment remains difficult in Europe.
And as a result we expect that full year sales growth will be approximately flat this year.
However we do have a lot of activity planned and we're making the right decisions now for growth in the future.
Slide 18 shows the first quarter sales growth for the Latin American region.
Internal net sales declined by 5.3% lapping high-single-digit growth in the first quarter of last year.
The food and drink tax that went into effect in Mexico at the start of the year had an impact on sales growth as we mentioned.
However results were in line with our expectations and the team has maintained a strong focus on innovation and in-store excellence.
For example we gained more than 2 points of share in the Mexican wholesome snacks business in the latest 12-week data as a result of good consumption growth in various brands including Special K and Nutri-Grain driven by the success of Fruittella.
So we expect that the impact from the tax will continue this year but that the elasticity that we saw in Q1 will decline progressively as consumers adjust to the new prices.
Our Latin America business has moved to a regional category model for both cereal and snacks and this has facilitated increased investment in both brand building and innovation.
We have plans to increase significantly our investment in brand building in the region over the next couple of quarters.
The team has already begun some Kellogg parent brand category-building activity and we're seeing a good early response.
Across the rest of the region we gained share in many of our Wholesome Snack and Savory Snacks businesses and we saw good sales growth in Brazil in both cereal and snacks.
The Pringles business continued to do very well posting high-single digit sales growth in the quarter and we expect continued strong results from the brand as a result of new commercial plans and additional brand building including soccer-related activity planned for the summer.
So we do expect good sales growth from the region over the remainder of the year although results will continue to be impacted by the situation in Mexico and the uncertainty that remains in Venezuela.
Now let's turn to Slide 19 and detail on the Asia-Pacific business.
This segment posted an internal sales decline of 1.4%.
This was driven primarily by the Australian business as the Asian business posted high-single digit growth in the quarter.
Specifically we saw good growth in Japan South Korea and Southeast Asia.
The Japanese business was driven by the continued growth of granola and importantly the Southeast Asian business benefited from a category building activity we started recently in the region.
And the Pringles business in the region posted high-single digit growth as expansion into India and new listings expanded our footprint.
In Australia the cereal category saw mid-single digit declines in consumption in the period although performance improved later in the quarter.
We have category-building activity that will drive this business going into the market into Q2 and we have a significant increase in investment planned for both Q2 and Q3.
Separately the Chinese joint venture also posted strong results.
So overall performance was good in the Asian business.
Although results in Australia were lower-than-expected we have plans in place to improve the relevancy of the category and specifically the performance of Kellogg's brands.
Let's turn to Slide 20 and the summary.
We are pleased that results for the first quarter were largely as we expected.
Sales weakness in developed categories in regions continued but we saw good growth elsewhere and we saw signs of improvement in our U.S.
Snacks business.
As you know late last year we announced Project K a 4-year efficiency and effectiveness program the largest in the company's history.
And I'm pleased to say that the project is going very well.
We've made good progress on GBS and supply chain with strong execution.
And we've also made great progress developing the ideas that will drive sales growth in the future.
We're excited about the potential we have and you're going to hear much more about these initiatives in the months to come.
We are on track for the year and have reaffirmed guidance.
As I said last quarter this is a journey and some of the decisions we've made have been difficult.
However Project K and the significant amount of investment we will make in the business over the next 4 years are the right things to do.
They will improve our supply chain network build key capabilities cut costs and fuel the investment that will drive sales growth.
None of this would be possible without our Kellogg employees and I'd like to end by thanking them for all their hard work and commitment.
And now let's open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John I know it's probably a bit early to have a real sense of success of the category building work that you're just starting to do.
But I guess since you started talking about the master brand plan try to go back and look maybe into some other food companies that have attempted something maybe sort of similar in the past.
And I guess it is tough to find ones that have been particularly successful though I'm sure I don't have a complete list by any means.
So I guess my question is maybe what is it that's different about this time for you guys maybe because I'm sure your folks know obviously all the pitfalls that have plagued maybe others that have tried a similar sort of process? Andrew I think the thing to keep in mind in what we're doing here with the Kellogg parent brand is that we are providing additional investment to the portfolio.
So the money coming in to support the parent brand is actually additional money that we've been spending on cereal.
So all of the brand-specific programs are still in place.
So if we were moving a tremendous amount of money from brand-specific activities to category level activities I think that would be a risky move.
This is more as we invest back into the business we're investing back in a way that we believe will have the greatest impact.
When we look at what's happening in cereal today there's really 2 elements if you look at our business.
One is around category relevance the category down around 4% to 5% and then there's some Kellogg-specific issues that we have.
As we look at that category relevance work look what's happening within the occasion the breakfast occasion is actually growing household penetration is high for cereal but the issue is that consumers are seeking protein and they're not taking into account that milk and cereal is a great source of protein because of the milk and often some of the cereal some of the grains also have a good amount of protein in them as well.
So we really with this parent brand rather than moving money from the sub-brands up to the parent brand we're activating it with new investment money we're talking about the benefits of protein that comes from cereal and milk which is very much on track with the customer today and it's also very much aligned with what the milk board is talking about as well.
So I think there's an opportunity here for additional synergies as we look across all the activities that are happening in the marketplace.
Our next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> John at least in measured channels one of the bigger tailwinds to your cereal business had been positive changes in distribution points.
That trend lately again just in Nielsen right has turned into a headwind with TBT [ph] I guess starting to trend down a little bit.
So couple things.
First is that representative of what's actually happening out there or is there something in that data we should be aware of? And second if it is representative I'm just curious if you could help us understand what's underlying some of those trends? And just on that can you really focus in on cereal in your question? Research Division</strong> Yes thanks John.
Okay.
Well if we look at the cereal entire cereal aisle is not changing all that much in terms of size.
I think within our business we've got a couple businesses that have struggled a little bit of late and we have lost a little bit of distribution in.
So the one business I guess I'd point to that has been impacted by that has been Kashi.
Kashi remains an incredibly strong brand it's actually one of the largest brands in the natural organic space.
And what we're doing there is we're bringing out new food that's more in line with the progressive nutrition that people are looking for from brands like Kashi.
And so you're seeing GMO-free type SKUs come into the market now as well as longer term some innovation to ensure that we are in the area of pioneering health.
So as you look at our complete points of distribution across the cereal aisle it's come down a little bit not dramatically and we have an expectation that we can continue to grow our distribution over time.
Our next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about Mexico.
Can you talk a little bit about the -- how the -- not just the de-elasticities in the first quarter but have you seen consumers switch from products that were taxed to products that weren't taxed? And I guess what I'm after is I know in soft drinks it appeared as though there was some trade across out of some of the sugared or taxed beverages into things like water or other types of flavored beverages.
So have you seen that type of switching in consumer behavior in Mexico? And then second just I wanted to make clear or make sure I understood in terms of pricing in Mexico was your pricing -- did you take price increases above the -- in addition to the rate increase that -- or the tax increase that the consumers saw in the shelf? Thanks Bryan.
If you look at our business in Mexico most of our portfolio actually fell underneath the impact of that tax so we didn't see a lot of switching within our portfolio and that's true also at a broad category level.
We did see an impact from the tax obviously and that impact was exactly in line with what we expected.
To your question we also did take a price increase at the same time so the impact only was slightly higher than just the tax in isolation.
As we look at Latin America as a reporting segment we do expect it to return to growth in the second quarter.
We do expect seeing the elasticities moderate over time as consumers get used to that pricing impact.
The other thing that is impacting our Latin American business a little bit in the first quarter is actually Venezuela.
Venezuela sales are actually down in Q1.
That's in part because we were unable to fully ship in P3 but we were able to ship in P4.
And so we had some catch up shipments occur in P4.
So there's a little bit of a Q1 Q2 shipped occurring there as well.
We actually feel good about the Mexican business.
We feel like it is tracking right where we expect it to given the tax impact and the price increase.
And in fact in the marketplace as I said in the prepared remarks even gaining some share in the wholesome snacks area.
Research Division</strong> Will there be more brand building that goes into Mexico in the balance of the year now that the price is on the shelf? Yes absolutely Bryan.
We in the prepared remarks commented that there'd be additional brand building across Q2 and Q3 in Latin America and that will certainly also be the case in Mexico.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> John I do remember you talking about kind of a tactical strategy for the master brand approach and talking about the benefits of milk and cereal together and the protein it provides at CAGNY.
But I guess one of the concerns I had was that consumers appear to be drinking less milk as well as eating less cereal.
And I wanted to know in the testing that you've done are you hearing any kind of consumer feedback about consumer demand for milk declining on health concerns? And then secondly I think you also said that you might try to go up against Greek yogurt and do kind of comparisons there in the advertising is that still part of the plan? As we look at the category building programs there's actually 3 or 4 different executions within that program.
One of those executions is reminding consumers of the benefit of protein that comes with cereal and milk.
And we believe that absolutely resonates with consumers.
It's actually a surprise to consumers that when you look at the protein that's in say a bowl of Mini-Wheats and milk that's there's as much protein there as in many yogurts.
So that is a positive surprise to people so an opportunity to reappraise and reconsider cereal and milk.
That's not the only activation though.
As you pointed out there is a little bit of a trend against milk out there and so we also activate programs with the soymilk suppliers and so on and other alternatively ways with which people consume cereal.
And rather than think about cereal going up against yogurt it's also worth remembering that cereal is actually a complement to yogurt and that a lot of people add cereal to their yogurt as well.
But that's not the only execution of our parent brand or category of driving activity.
We also have a cereal snacking program recognizing that the incidence of snacking on cereal has increased significantly over the last decade from 20% of all cereal consumed outside the breakfast occasion nearly of 30% of all cereal outside the breakfast occasion.
And historically we've seen good success with those programs on brands like Special K in evening snacking.
So we have those sorts of programs coming back into the market.
And then there are other programs that remind people of the simplicity of the food; that this is food directly from the farm to the table that a cornflake is virtually a corn grit that's being rolled and toasted.
So it's not -- as you think about the category relevance work it's not all just a milk and grain story it's actually several different executions around the world that we will be able to work with through Q2 Q3 get responses from adapt adopt and quickly take up what's working and move it around the system.
Our next question is from Alex Sloane of Societe Generale.
I was hoping to get some more color on the like-for-like sales decline in Asia.
Appreciate Australia was the key factor there.
Just wondering is the weakness in Australia entirely a cereal issue or has Pringles also been held back? And with the actions you're taking in Australia do you think you can get or do you think you can post positive internal net sales growth in Asia-Pacific for the full year? And I guess while we're on Asia it's around about 18 months since the announcement of your JV with Wilmar in China.
So just wondering if you could give a very brief overview on how that JV is progressing relative to your expectations? So within Asia-Pacific we actually saw very good growth in Asia.
As I said before in the prepared remarks Japan Southeast Asia all these -- a number of these markets grew quite strongly in the first quarter.
Unfortunately it was held back by Australia in the first quarter.
We're lapping last year in Australia where we launched the breakfast beverage business that had some big volume comparisons coming from that launch.
As we look at the Australian cereal category it has similar dynamics to what we've seen say in the U.S.
and we have very significant investment going in the brand building behind the Australian cereal business in the second and third quarter as well as large consumer promotion events in each of the next 3 quarters.
So we do expect an improvement in the Australian cereal business.
And while we don't normally give guidance at a segment level we do expect Asia Pacific to have positive growth across the year.
On Pringles specifically actually Pringles in Australia grew quite nicely and Pringles in the region also grew despite some foreign exchange headwind as we take Pringles say from U.S.
into Japan.
And obviously the cost of goods goes up as the exchange rate has moved.
If there's one thing I would say about Asia-Pacific it's we have seen a slowdown in India.
That's probably the one area that's a little bit slower than we would have expected to see.
Still growing but not at the extremely high rates that we've seen over the last 2 or 3 years.
But we feel good about the state of the Asia-Pacific business and the long-term potential.
On China that's a relatively small joint venture early days.
Having said that we virtually doubled the business in the first quarter but it's not consolidated in our results.
So there's no benefit from the China joint venture sales within the internal sales number that we report for Asia-Pacific.
Our next question is from David Hayes of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> My one question is just around the advertising expenditure and the phasing of that.
I wonder if you can give us a little bit more color at least directionally maybe in terms of the expenditure levels in the potential sales in the first quarter versus year-on-year and sequentially.
And then I think you mentioned obviously this build up through the year.
I just wonder whether you can give us some feeling as whether that's going to be very heavy in second and third quarter and falling away in the fourth or building up through the year? And then related to that investment again obviously you're talking about being ready for this category push in the second quarter a lot of that is around as we understand it direct store and merchandising in-store.
Can you talk about any activities any investment that you've made in the first quarter to put more salespeople in place et cetera which are ready to go as we go into the second quarter? I'll ask Ron to answer the advertising phasing question.
I'll come back and talk about the feet on the street investment.
So in terms of the advertising our total brand building phasing pressure across the year.
First we had good pressure in the first quarter but our brand building was down slightly year-over-year.
Our pressure is much stronger particularly in the second quarter and the third quarter.
So we're looking to be up probably mid- to high-single digits in terms of our brand building pressure.
And then as we said for the full year we expect our brand building and advertising to grow at a rate faster than sales growth but good pressure out there in the second quarter and the third quarter.
If we look at the investment back in the sales organization it's really happened in 2 places in the U.S.
The first one is in our DSD system.
We've invested back in the DSD organization by increasing the number of reps and we've improved the technology available to those reps as well.
So we're seeing a very good performance from our DSD sales organization.
We'll start to see that come through in the first quarter.
We're building momentum and through the 4 big businesses within snacks we gained over 1share point in crackers with growth from Cheez-It Club from basin [ph] innovation Town House the core cracker brands.
We also saw very good growth in cookies towards the end of the quarter with the M&amp;M cookies coming through.
Now all this is coming through in terms of improved execution in store.
Our wholesome snacks is the one business that is not firing on all cylinders.
Within that we have a couple of brands that are doing well and a few that need some work but we're seeing improved merchandising there over time as well.
And of course Pringles continues to deliver double-digit growth in the first quarter on top of double-digit growth last year.
So we're seeing a good response to investment of sales organization on DSD.
The other part of the sales organization that we are looking to continue to optimize is on the Morning Foods or cereal side of the business the warehouse side where we have more of a broken model and we are selectively adding back Kellogg direct employees feet on the street there in the right locations where we have the greatest impact.
That's more later in Q1 into Q2 as we go through the year.
Our next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just first one Ron you mentioned on Slide 11 about Venezuela and I think you said it had no – there's no FX impact or you haven't assumed any.
Can you just -- are you -- have you not adjusted your CCAD rate or were you just talking x currency? And if we include currency how much of a drag is Venezuela expected to be on the range? So at this point in time Eric we have not taken a devaluation for the Venezuela business.
Let me just elaborate on that a little bit.
First as I said in the prepared remarks sales are approximately 1% of our total company sales and operating profit is approximately 2% of our company operating profit.
The valuation of our net assets and the translation of sales and profits are really a facts and circumstances situation.
Within Venezuela Kellogg's is deemed a priority industry.
And we manufacture virtually all of our product domestically within Venezuela.
We were also able to secure funds for anything we buy out of the country to produce in the country.
We're able to secure funds at the official rate of VEF 6.3 to the U.S.
dollar.
So at this point in time we have chosen to continue to value our business at that rate.
Now the CCAD 1 rate I believe is just under VEF 11 to the U.S.
dollar.
If our facts and circumstances were to change and we were to value at that rate we would have a one-time charge impact for the devaluation of the net assets and then we would have an impact from the future translation of profits to our business.
The estimated impact for that and this will be disclosed within our Q as well is around $0.09 to $0.11 of earnings per share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So you're -- because I guess you have production locally and you're deemed by their government to be special or that's why you're different from other companies that have had to recognize the 11 rate? That is absolutely correct Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John if I could follow up.
The Nielsen data going into the quarter showed your cookies and crackers business as struggling a bit but you kind of pointed to it actually being quite strong I think if my memory's correct crackers are really the bulk of the business and the most profitable part.
Can you talk a little bit about the difference between the Nielsen data and your shipments? And also kind of how you see the Project K kind of enabling that business when obviously your competitor in Mondelez has a lot kind of riding on their North American business both being stronger in terms of sales and profits and they're taking production down to Mexico et cetera? Well Eric I feel very good about the momentum that we are building in our snacks business in the U.S.
and we had a tough year last year.
But as I look within the U.S.
and what probably not as evident when all you see is the quarterly results is when you look at the phasing within the quarter we came out of Q1 strong.
And we're seeing very good momentum behind crackers and cookies Pringles obviously as well.
And in that business it's not really the ability to have a big disconnect between consumption and shipments over time because it's a DSD business it's not going to a warehouse where you could get inventory hung up for a period of time.
So a couple reasons why our shipments were stronger than our consumption.
One is we had some activity going in customer that is outside the measured data.
And also we had very good display levels at the end of the quarter on full and seeing that pull out in P4 consumption as well.
So I believe we are building momentum in the snacks business and thought we're absolutely on the right track.
In terms of our competitor I can't really talk to what their strategy or their intent is.
But our intent here is to play our game which is innovation-driven in-store execution driven invest back in the sales organization.
We've gained share in crackers for just about every year for the last 10 12 years except for the last 1 or 2 years.
And to see ourselves back in cracker share growth there you see the Keebler business growing low-single digits you see Pringles driving double-digit growth on top of double-digit growth there's a lot of reasons here to see the business start to turn.
Wholesome snacks there's still work to be done but we're absolutely addressing it and taking the right actions.
Our next question is from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> This is Alexis Borden in for David this morning.
Just a question about kind of your inflation expectations.
I know you reiterated your guidance of 3% to 4% and you said that deflation was modest in the first quarter.
So can maybe you kind of clarify or elaborate a little bit of the pacing on a go-forward basis? Yes.
So we did see a little bit of net inflation within the first quarter.
We still expect as I said around 3% to 4% of cost inflation and that will be more than offset by the productivity improvements that we expect over the course of the year.
Remember we've always talked about inflationary costs in materials and primarily that being driven by our packaging costs.
We did see some timing of cost and savings as I said within our factories in particular timing of production.
Our production was a little bit lower in the first quarter not an issue for the full year necessarily.
But a little lower in the first quarter and some of that was related to the weather impact that John talked about we all actually saw some impact to our ability to produce in some of our manufacturing facilities.
So our inflation is a little bit more front-end weighted not a significant exaggeration though in terms of front end versus how it spreads across the year.
The other important thing is our savings.
We have good savings in the first quarter but those savings ramp-up as we progress through the balance of the year.
And the Project K savings are a particular contributor to that.
Those savings as you can imagine particularly for our supply chain initiatives will increase as we go through particularly the back part of the year.
So we will see or have seen the net inflation in the first quarter and we'll see some net deflation over the balance of the year.
Our next question is from David Palmer of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First a follow-up question.
After your conversation with Eric there with regard to shipments versus consumption do you think your shipments overall were in line with consumption across your businesses? And second my primary question is we've been talking about your investments in brand building in the quarter and I think while we're assuming that the bulk of that is going to be U.S.
cereal perhaps you can confirm on that and with regard specifically to advertising behind that.
Given that I thought it was interesting you said you expected cereal to be down but down in line with the category.
Given your importance in the category are you expecting that the category growth or decline rate will improve through the rest of this year? Okay.
So there's a few questions in there.
Firstly in terms of any difference between shipments and consumption I would say that our shipments were broadly in line with our consumption.
And if we look at our trade inventory levels there was nothing there that stuck out on us as a concern year-on-year.
Secondly in terms of brand building investment the brand building investment we have coming in Q2 and Q3 is a little bit more cereal-oriented particularly in some of the developed markets such as parts of Europe Australia U.S.
Obviously we continue to invest more in brands like Pringles as well which has continued to drive tremendous growth for us.
I'm trying to remember the third piece now that you asked me.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just the part about brand building and the fact that you said that you expected decline to continue.
Given this investment it seems rather conservative.
Well I believe that the category growth is a function of what the manufacturers do.
So to your point if we improve our performance then the category performance should improve as well.
And in some respects that is inside of expectation.
In the first quarter the category's down 4% to 5%.
The category's likely to be down more sort of low-single digits across the back half of the year with us more in line with the category.
Not necessarily in line with the category but closer to the category.
And if we can improve our performance I believe the category will improve.
Our next question is from Matthew Grainger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus more on the non-GMO Kashi offerings and just any early thoughts you have on the performance there.
Can you give us a sense at all of the cost benefit trade-offs whether there's a material difference in margin how retailers are responding to it and if you have any observations about performance at the consumer level relative to the I guess legacy SKUs? Well firstly as I said earlier Kashi is a tremendous brand.
It's one of the largest brands in the natural organic space.
We do need to invest more back into the food to ensure we're on track with progressive nutrition.
And as we do that it means putting money back into the food itself.
So it does impact the gross margin structure but essentially the shift within Kashi from brand building into the food because you have to have the food right.
In terms of are we seeing an impact it's too early to say there's a big impact from GMO-free.
We do have organic SKUs within Kashi and they've been doing well.
So I think there's reason to believe in there.
But ultimately we need to get more new innovation to the marketplace over time.
So we're confident in the long-term growth of Kashi.
What I will say is this business because it has lost some distribution over the last 12 18 months it is going to be a headwind as we go through 2014 as we're just lapping those distribution losses.
But long term this is a very strong business.
We just need to get it back on track and invest more in the food because that's what consumers are looking for from this brand.
And our last question will come from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that there were also some problems with Special K and Mini-Wheats as well and it would be great to get some detail on that.
You mentioned distribution losses at Kashi.
Was that specifically in regular grocery stores was it in the natural grocery outlets? And more broadly because the cereal category as a whole has been in trouble for I guess about 18 months now how are the retailers thinking about shelf space allocations to the entire segment at the moment? Okay.
Well perhaps I could take that in reverse order that you asked the questions.
But again the retail support for the category remains strong.
This is one of the largest most profitable categories within the retail environment and the discussions we're having with retailers are very productive and positive about how we grow our combined business.
And in some respects you come back to the category relevance work we're getting very good retail support from network because it's helping retailers both with the cereal category and with the milk category which is another important category for them over time as well.
So we continue to get good retail support for shelf assortment.
There's probably a little bit less merchandising support over the last couple of years but can get good primary shelf support.
In terms of where the distribution losses have occurred for Kashi quite frankly there have been some retailers that are more mainstream in orientation that probably took a little bit more Kashi than they could sustain in that sort of outlet and we're still seeing very good distribution in the primary stores where the natural organic shopper goes to shop.
And then coming back to your first question about some of the other brands where we have some challenges we have Special K and Mini-Wheats we have specific activity coming to market against both of those.
So on Mini-Wheats it's on air here in the second quarter.
It's also being heavily featured in the category work that's going on.
And on Special K we have a new Simple 5 program that's coming in the second quarter which actually is a portfolio program across cereals snacks and frozen and really highlights the all-day weight management partner that Special K is.
And so we have a number of specific programs addressing those very specific brand opportunities which we think are part of the solution to drive back to growth.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And on Special K was there a reason that the sort of the beginning of the year typical campaign on dieting and so on didn't work as well this year or is it a different issue? I think we have a couple of opportunities with Special K.
Certainly the resolution event earlier this year was not as effective as we would have liked and I think we have an opportunity to continue to improve those programs over time.
I think they've become -- we used to call them the 2-week challenge.
It's become a challenge it's become something difficult to do.
It's not resonating with consumers as well and so we need to continue to move the brand to a more positive footing of great food that helps you live your life to the fullest and manage your weight as opposed to more of a negative orientation.
And quite frankly that's a challenge not just in the U.S.
it's a global challenge on Special K.
If you look around the world where the weakness is in some of our other cereal business it is a Special K discussion.
And so as we look at our Special K programs globally we are working on different programs around the world.
We've changed food in a number of markets and as we see again what works we'll continue to adapt and adopt rapidly around the Kellogg system and bring those ideas to bear.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
We'll be available the next couple days for follow-ups.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations for Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your call.
Thanks Laura and good morning.
Thanks everyone for joining us today for a review of our second quarter 2014 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant Chairman and CEO; and Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides to support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to our -- to the second slide of our presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday August 4.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we announced second quarter earnings per share that were broadly in line with our expectations.
We saw growth in Europe Latin America Asia Pacific and in Specialty Channels in the U.S.
and Pringles continue to do well around the world.
However as you've heard from other companies recently the sales environment continues to be very difficult in major developed markets and this affected our performance in the second quarter as well.
As a result sales growth and operating profit were lower than we anticipated.
However earnings per share were broadly in line with expectations in a challenging environment.
As Ron will discuss in more detail in a few minutes as a result of the environment we've seen so far this year we're lowering our guidance for 2014.
We now expect that internal net sales will be down between 1% and 2%.
Underlying internal operating profit will be down between 1% and 3% and a currency-neutral comparable earnings per share will be between up 1% and down 1%.
We are disappointed by our performance in 2014 and are committed to returning our business to long-term growth.
We already invest a significant $1.5 billion a year in brand building an industry-leading level as a percentage of sales.
And as you know we intend to increase our investment in revenue-driving activities including brand building and sales execution as part of the Project K initiative.
But before we talk about that in more detail let me turn to Slide 4 and a brief overview of Project K and how we're funding the extra investment.
Project K is our 4-year global efficiency and effectiveness program and it continues to progress well.
As you know Project K is designed to ensure that we have the right capacity in the right locations to enable us to meet customer demand and market trends.
As a result we have made the difficult decision to close our London Ontario cereal plants and are in consultation to take production out of that plant in Manchester U.K.
Despite these actions we may still have more capacity than we need in our cereal network.
In addition to the items we've discussed with you previously we recently announced that we have plans to reduce excess capacity in the snacks business in the U.S.
Also as we highlighted last quarter the move to global business services continues to go well.
This is a three-tiered model which will include local regional and global services.
We remain on track to open the first regional center which will support North America in the third quarter of this year and we've announced our intention to open a center in Europe.
Let's turn to Slide 5 for a discussion of some of the actions we are taking with the savings generated by this program.
We currently invest in advertising at industry-leading levels and have so for some years.
Part of that is due to the categories in which we compete as they are large profitable and highly branded.
So while we intend to continue to increase investment over the long term at or above the rate of sales growth we are also taking steps in the near term to increase the effectiveness and impact of the $1.5 billion we currently invest in brand building.
First we have a portfolio of strong brand equities and we'll continue to nurture and enhance their relevance through the use of strong campaign ideas that differentiate and break through.
For example we're driving the relevance of the Kellogg's parent brand with consumers by communicating about our sustainability initiatives and philanthropic initiatives such as Breakfast for Better Days.
We know that consumers are looking for companies that share their values and these campaigns demonstrate our commitment to the environment and the community.
Second in a fragmented media landscape we are focused on following the consumer as their immediate consumption habits evolve.
Today we invest more than 20% of our media in digital properties and we will continue to shift media to where and when the consumer engages for the greatest impact.
Third as many consumers seek personalized one-to-one communication we will continue to expand our database of over 20 million consumers in the U.S.
and reach out to them with personalized communications and offers on the brands of their choice.
Finally recognizing we are competing in a multicultural landscape we are actively engaging the Hispanic audience.
So we're focusing on new investment and on increasing the effectiveness of what we already spend.
We see this as a meaningful opportunity.
We will continue to evaluate all of our spending and generate great ideas that will drive profitable revenue growth.
And I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial results.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide 6 shows financial results for the second quarter.
Internal sales declined by 1.5% an improvement from the first quarter but below our expectations.
We had anticipated some improvement in developed cereal trends during the quarter and our U.S.
snacks business was softer than planned but we did post good growth in other regions including Latin America Asia and Europe.
Underlying internal operating profit decreased by 7.2% which as John said was below our expectations.
This was due to our sales performance.
It's also worth noting that our profit performance included a mid-single-digit increase in investment in brand building the benefit of a lower overhead in SG&amp;A and slightly higher inflation in cost of goods sold.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration cost mark-to-market adjustments and Project K costs were $1.02 per share in the quarter broadly in line with our expectations.
We benefited in the quarter from a lower tax rate lower interest expense and by $0.02 per share from currencies.
Reported earnings per share for the quarter were $0.82 including $0.02 of Pringles integration costs $0.16 of upfront costs related to Project K and $0.02 impact from mark-to-market adjustments.
Slide 7 shows the composition of the second quarter sales growth.
Total internal sales declined by 1.5% and total price and mix improved by 1% with most regions contributing to the performance.
Volume decreased by 2.5% in the quarter mainly due to declines in developed cereal.
As was the case last quarter unit volume performance was better than tonnage.
Finally the impact of currency translation increased reported sales growth by 0.7% in the quarter primarily as the result of movement in the British pound.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 which shows our underlying reported gross profit and gross margin for the quarter.
Our underlying gross margin decreased by 60 basis points in the second quarter.
Our inflation is more skewed to earlier in the year.
In addition we saw some adverse impact from higher distribution costs and lower production volume due to our sales performance across the quarter.
While we generated solid productivity savings in the quarter we experienced some net inflation.
And these factors led to the decline in gross margin that we saw in the quarter.
We are currently covered on commodities and packaging at approximately 90%.
So we have good visibility into the phasing and levels of cost for the year.
Slide 9 shows the quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 9%.
This was driven by lower-than-expected sales in cereal increased transportation costs and we also increased investment and brand building in the period.
We expect improvement in the second half of the year in North America although we expect operating profit to be down for the year.
Internal operating profit in Europe increased by 5%.
Sales and strong productivity savings and cost of goods sold and overhead led to net deflation in the quarter so as partially offset by a mid-single-digit increase in brand building investment including for our cereal category building messaging.
Internal operating profit grew 6% in Latin America.
We had good top line growth which helped to offset inflation in cost of goods sold.
Top line growth was driven in part by a lower impact in the food tax increase in Mexico earlier this year.
And Asia Pacific posted a decrease in internal operating profit of 65% in the quarter.
This was largely due to a double-digit increase in brand building investment across the region and our performance in South Africa.
In South Africa we conducted construction in our plant and it took longer to bring production back online than we planned.
This increased our cost of goods sold and impacted our ability to supply the market.
It is important to note however that the plant is up and running again.
Slide 10 shows year-to-date cash flow for the quarter.
Cash flow from operations was $654 million.
We continue to make progress on the payables initiative that we've discussed with you previously and we still expect that this initiative would generate between $200 million and $300 million in cash this year.
Also we are investigating some other options that can improve working capital even further in the years to come.
Year-to-date capital spending was $226 million slightly lower than last year but our expectations for full year capital spending remain unchanged between 4% and 5% of sales to support Project K's supply network initiatives capacity expansion for Pringles and our new cereal plant in India.
So year-to-date free cash flow after capital spending was $428 million.
And finally share repurchases in the first half of the year were $329 million significantly more than the $124 million of options proceeds received.
We now expect to reduce our average share count by approximately 1.5% over the course of the year towards the lower end of our previous outlook.
Now let's turn to slide 11 which shows our revised guidance for 2014.
As usual our guidance excludes items that affect comparability and please refer to our notes for the details on these items.
As a result of a slower improvement in sales trends we have revised our outlook for the year.
We now expect that internal net sales will be lower by between 1% and 2% for the full year.
This is primarily due to the softer sales performance we've seen in our developed cereal markets in the first half.
We expect moderate material-related inflation for the year and total cost of goods sold inflation is still expected to be in the 3% to 4% range we provided previously.
Productivity and savings from Project K will be a little higher than we guided leading to moderate net deflation for the year.
We do still expect an improvement in underlying reported gross margin but it may be up only slightly.
We anticipate that underlying internal operating profit will be in a range between down 1% and down 3% and we continue to expect the brand building to be at or above the rate of sales growth.
This outlook excludes the impact of the 53rd week which will add between 1.5 and 2 points to reported operating profit growth.
Currency-neutral comparable earnings are expected be in a range between down 1% and up 1% or $3.81 to $3.89 per share.
The 53rd week will add approximately $0.07 per share and currency may add approximately $0.03 per share resulting in an EPS including the 53rd week in currencies of $3.91 to $3.99.
The tax rate is still expected to be between 29% and 30% and interest expense is now anticipated to be between $210 million and $220 million.
The EPS walk on slide 12 shows you the details of our guidance.
Our outlook still excludes any potential impact from a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
If we were to recognize the devaluation to the SICAD 1 rate now it could impact earnings by between $0.07 and $0.09 per share for 2014.
The annualized impact would be between $0.09 and $0.11 per share due to the translation of profits at a lower rate for an entire year.
And finally on this slide we continue to estimate that integration costs will be between $0.07 and $0.09 a share and that Project K costs may be at the high end of the $0.60 to $0.65 per share range.
Now let's turn to slide 13.
We expect cash flow to be at the low end of the range between $1 billion and $1.1 billion due to our expectations for lower full year underlying internal operating profit.
And as I said earlier we still expect capital spending to be between 4% and 5% of sales.
As you would expect our revised outlook for the year has an impact on our expectations for second half sales and profit.
While we anticipate that both internal sales and underlying internal operating profit will be down in the third quarter and we expect comparable earnings per share to be down at a mid-single-digit rate including continued investment in brand-building activities.
Our sales trends are expected to improve as we progress into the fourth quarter and we expect growth in underlying internal operating profit including the benefit from the build of productivity savings including Project K and the lower inflation I mentioned.
And of course we've also got the 53rd week affecting earnings per share as well.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for more detail on the operating segments.
Thanks Ron.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 14 you'll see more detail regarding Morning Foods.
Internal net sales declined by 4.9% in the quarter.
As you know we started our category-building programs in the second quarter.
This investment will continue across the balance of the year and into the future with a focus on evening snacking beginning in the fourth quarter.
And to be clear this is not just an idea or 2.
Rather it is an ongoing initiative to deliver our consumer-focused message on both a category and individual brand level.
And it won't surprise you to hear that we are putting the final touches on a campaign that we'll launch in early 2015 as well.
As we drive this program it is designed to build and grow the category and for Kellogg to capture that growth.
We will do that by using our individual brands within the category-building campaigns.
So as you think about the business we have distinct challenges with some valid innovation with Special K and with Kashi and we have plans to each.
While Mini-Wheats has posted declines in consumption so far this year the original bite-size version has performed relatively well.
The overall decline has been largely due to innovation that hasn't worked such as Mini-Wheats Crunch but we're working through that impact.
As you can see on the slide the broader category-building campaign includes the Mini-Wheats brand.
And we've also got new advertising planned for later in the year which focuses on out-of-breakfast consumption.
So we're strengthening our brand-building program on Mini-Wheats and are confident that this is a brand that will respond that we return to growth over time.
And we've also had an issue with some other failed innovation in Crunchy Nut and FiberPlus.
In fact the impact of these 2 brands accounts the 0.5 point per share decline in the quarter.
While the category trends were not positive we also faced some brand-specific issues.
Special K continues to be impacted by the evolving consumer trends affecting weight management brands in general.
As a result we are actively repositioning the brand and emphasizing the presence of positive nutrition like protein fiber grains and other relevant nutritional benefits.
We also have plans for renovation and innovation as well as new communication plans to further drive this repositioning of the food.
Finally for Morning Foods let's turn to Slide 15 in Kashi which is one of the largest natural food businesses in the U.S.
Kashi has not performed as well as we would have liked over the past few years.
And while much of the recent decline is due to lower distribution we need to address the brand's positioning and our ability to execute quickly enough in the evolving world of natural and organic foods.
We haven't kept Kashi focused enough on progressive nutrition.
And as a result we have decided to make some dramatic changes.
David Denholm who ran Kashi very successfully in the 2000s is returning to the company to become CEO of the Kashi Company which also includes the Bare Naked and Stretch Island Fruit snack businesses.
This will be a largely autonomous business within the Kellogg family.
Kashi will be based in La Jolla where it began and will be focused on returning the brand to the leading edge of the natural and organic food world.
This business requires an entrepreneurial approach shorter developed periods and a more agile decision-making process.
And David is the right person to lead this significant change although we know it will take some time.
So as we said before we realize an improvement of the cereal business will take some time.
However we've just started to invest in all our developed businesses around the world and we're making plans for additional activities.
This is a multiyear program and we're confident that we have the foods the brands and the ideas to drive improvement in the future.
Now let's look at the U.S.
Snacks segment in Slide 16.
Internal net sales declined by 2.7% in the quarter.
The cracker business and Pringles both did well in the quarter and we maintained share with the Keebler brand in the cookie category.
However we underperformed the category in wholesome snacks.
The cracker business posted a gain in share in Q2 as the big 3 brands Cheez-It Club and Town House all saw gains in consumption and growth in share.
In combination these 3 brands posted consumption growth of 7% driven by core varieties and new products.
Cheez-It Grooves which we launched in the first quarter continue to do well.
And initial results for Town House Pretzel Thins which were launched at the end of Q2 have been good.
In addition last year's new products Cheez-it Zings and Town House Pita both continue to do well in the second year and we have more big ideas launching later this year.
The Keebler cookie brand maintained share in the quarter.
The Chips Deluxe line saw good growth as the new cookies co-branded with M&amp;M's continue to do well.
However we posted lower consumption and shipments in our 100-calorie packs and we actively reduced SKUs in this segment.
We have some new products that recently launched including Keebler S'mores and a new variety of our successful Simply Made cookies which will have a positive impact on results.
However the effective reductions in the number of SKUs in the tail will continue for the balance of this year and into early next year.
In the wholesome snack business overall sales declined in the second quarter although we had some success as a result of innovation in Rice Krispies Treats and Kashi and these new Special K Protein bars gained incremental distribution.
However we saw weakness in the rest of the Special K brand as it faces headwinds from evolving consumer trends in weight management.
We are working on new products and have more activity planned for the second half.
However we expect this segment to remain challenging for the balance of the year.
The Pringles business posted both shipment and consumption growth in the quarter with consumption lapping almost 7% comps in the 13-week period through the end of June.
Pringles Tortillas continues to post very strong results and we have new varieties planned for introduction.
And we saw strong support for the brand including increased display activity in Q2.
Pringles is a great brand that has responded well to our initiatives and we expect continued strong growth in the second half of this year and into the future.
Although we gained share in crackers and Pringles and the Keebler brand held share in cookies in the quarter we were disappointed with the performance of our snacks business.
We are working hard to address the weakness this year particularly in the Special K brand.
And the team is working on plans for longer term including improved brand building better innovation and continued good in-store execution.
Now let's look at slide 17 in the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Internal net sales increased by 1.4% in the quarter.
The Foodservice Convenience and Vending businesses all posted growth.
The Foodservice business benefited from increased sales in the school channel as well as new cracker distribution.
The Convenience business posted sales growth greater than overall channel growth due to strength in bars crackers and Pringles.
We ran successful Rice Krispies Treats activity and Pringles Tortillas and on the go single-serve Cheez-It also contributed.
And in the vending channel good performance by Rice Krispies Treats and sandwich crackers led to mid-single-digit net sales growth.
There was also a decline in sales in the custom segment where we exited some less profitable businesses.
And finally the broader Pringles business did very well across the segment.
Slide 18 shows the sales performance of the North America Other segment which includes the U.S.
Frozen Foods and Canadian businesses.
The segment posted an internal sales decline of 4.9% in the quarter.
The Frozen Foods business posted a decrease in internal net sales in the quarter primarily due to difficult comparisons.
Last year's high single-digit growth was largely a result of introduction in Special K Flatbread sandwiches which is one of the most successful launches in recent years in the frozen business.
We saw growth in the quarter from new products such as Eggo Bites although consumption of the total Eggo brand was below expectations.
To address this we are continuing to focus on some great new products in the second half coupled with strong marketing programs.
Net sales also declined in the Canadian business although we gained share in the cereal snack bar and frozen breakfast categories.
Pringles also gained share in Canada driven in part by incremental display activity.
In the second half the Canadian business will benefit from significant new product activity including the launch of Eggo Thick &amp; Fluffy Waffles Rice Krispies Shapes cereal and Pringles Tortillas.
As we told you earlier the business has been seeing good early engagement and customer execution on the cereal and milk category-building activity.
Now let's turn to slide 19 in our European business.
Internal net sales in the European business increased by 0.7% in the quarter driven primarily by strong growth from the snack business.
We saw good underlying growth in emerging markets in Europe and the Pringles business posted increased consumption and share across much of the region.
In fact Pringles posted a double-digit increase in net sales and Pringles net sales have also increased at a double-digit rate in the year-to-date period.
You can see on the slide that we had a summer soccer-themed promotional event tied to Pringles which was very successful across the region.
And we started to see some improvement in the cereal category in parts of Europe.
In the second quarter we selectively introduced Muesli on the continent which is tied to broader brand-building activity.
And we launched Special K Granola across the region also supported by strong programs.
Tying all this together is a brand-building campaign we call origins.
This campaign helps consumers make the connection between our food and its origins and highlights the food's natural ingredients and simplicity.
This is an exciting program that encompasses TV digital and social media in-store activity and public relations.
And as you can imagine we have plans for incremental activity and new product introductions across the region over the balance of the year.
So the economic environment in Europe is difficult and the large developed cereal markets are facing similar issues to those seen in the U.S.
However we are growing in parts of the region and the snack businesses continue to do well.
While we expect sales to be down for the full year in Europe we will continue to execute our plans and remain confident that we are positioning the business for future growth.
Slide 20 shows detail regarding the Latin American business.
As you can see we posted 6.9% net sales growth in the quarter.
This was driven by strong price realization innovation and brand-building activities.
Net sales increased in Mexico Venezuela and Mercosur with the breakfast category doing well driven by children's cereals.
The strong innovation I referenced came from Zucaritas Power Balls Special K Multigrain and Nutri-Grain Fruittella and we had a very strong soccer theme promotion in Latin America as well that exceeded our expectations.
We expect to continued good sales growth in Latin America across the remainder of the year and have lots of activity coming in the second half.
In the third quarter we have new Choco Krispies and All-Bran launching in Mexico and Central America which will be supported with brand building.
We have new packaging launching across a number of brands and we'll be supporting these introductions as well.
And we've got more to come in the fourth quarter.
And finally the region has whole-grain and multi-grain messaging and category-building activity planned for the second half.
So hopefully you can see that we've got a full plan of activity scheduled for the balance of the year in Latin America which should give us good momentum.
Now let's turn to slide 21 and the Asia Pacific business.
Overall the business posted internal revenue growth of 0.5%.
In Asia we saw mid-single-digit growth as sales in Japan increased at a double-digit rate driven by granola.
And sales in both South Korea and India increased at a mid-single-digit rate.
This was partially offset by the performance in South Africa which Ron mentioned.
Of note is the growth in India which continue to improve after weakness earlier in the year resulting from a broader economic slowdown.
Pringles continued to perform very well in the region with double-digit net sales growth in the quarter.
We recently launched the brand in India and we had successful soccer theme promotions that ran in Q2 as well.
While the Australian business continued to see declines in the quarter results were sequentially better.
We launched All-Bran Muesli earlier in the year with good results year-to-date.
In addition the team has good plans for the second half including investment behind the core cereal brands new in-store activity and category-building initiatives.
And finally for the Asia Pacific region while it's not part of the region's reported results we saw good sales results from the JV we have in China continuing the performance we saw in the first quarter.
In fact on a pro forma basis the JV in China would have added approximately 1 point to the region's net sales growth rate.
So overall results in Asia were good and performance in Australia improved and we have more plans in place for the second half of the year.
So finally let's turn to Slide 22 and the summary.
We are pleased that the second quarter's earnings per share were in line with expectations.
We continue to see weakness in net sales in developed markets particularly in cereal but we saw top line growth in each of the international regions.
And Pringles performed very well globally.
Project K our 4-year efficiency and effectiveness program continues to go well.
And we've made great progress so far this year.
The GBS initiative is on track and we have announced further potential rationalization of capacity.
And we began to implement incremental programs despite a dry revenue growth around the world.
It's very early in what is a 4-year program.
And we've got plans with some more exciting new ideas as well and you'll hear more about these in the months to come.
And finally we are improving the effectiveness of the investment we already make and this will only increase the opportunities that we believe are available to the company in the years ahead.
The transformation that we have begun is a significant one and it has already involved some difficult decisions.
We know it would take time to see improvement but I'm confident that our Kellogg employees will drive this change.
And I'd like to end as always by thanking them for all of their hard work.
I'd like to turn over now for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> All right.
Let me just ask a question if I could John about revenue growth.
And obviously you've taken down your expectations for the year but I just want to get a better sense of how you see that progressing through the remainder of the year? I guess what I'm getting to is that you have some investments coming up through the savings generated through Project K.
I think you're starting to put some money back behind cereal business and other parts of the business.
And I'm just curious should we just expect sequential progress? And then more importantly in U.S.
cereal can we see sequential progress in that business as well? Yes Chris.
This is Ron.
In terms of our total company revenue expectation for the balance of the year as we look at the third quarter revenue is a little bit better but pretty comparable to the second quarter.
We do see an improving trend as we get into the fourth quarter.
But as you know we're down about 2% on a year-to-date basis in terms of our sales performance on an internal basis and our expectation is to be down 1% to 2% for the full year.
So we're not banking on significant changes in our revenue position for the balance of the year but there is slight improvement.
Chris specifically to cereal we do expect the category to improve slightly as we go through the back part of the year and our performance to be more in line with the category.
Clearly we've been a bit off that pace in the front half of the year.
A few things that we're doing to drive that I mean we do have the feet on the street going back into a U.S.
cereals organization.
Today we have about 30% of those positions filled.
Next month we should be at about 50%.
By October we should be fully staffed.
I think they will help us improve our performance.
And we are really focused on improving and driving our cereal business as we go into 2015.
And our next question is from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John [indiscernible] -- speak maybe to the pipeline right now.
It looks like the Q2 numbers were a bit better than Nielsen data would suggest.
Are there any areas within cereal or snacks where maybe you can see a trade [indiscernible] to take away trail shipments? As we look at our trade inventories across the business we think they're in fairly reasonable shape.
And remember our cookie cracker wholesome snacks business is DSD-delivered.
So you don't have a lot of inventory in a DSD system.
Our cereal inventories in the U.S.
are broadly in line with where they are at this time of year.
So we don't see any big inventory overhang at this time And the next question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess just following up on the cereal question are there brands where you've decided to maybe channel less resource manage the cash a bit more and others where you've really thought about channeling incremental investments? And can you give us any examples of that? And then at a broader level we've seen Campbell Soup making a number of changes to its portfolio over the last few years.
You've obviously made the Pringles acquisition but are you now thinking that more profound changes may be required? Alexia let me take the cereal question first and then I'll move to your portfolio question.
On cereal and we've talked about this before I think there's really 2 issues going on here.
One is there's a category relevance issue and the second is there's some Kellogg-specific issues in some key brands.
And if I think about where we are in the category the category is down about 5%.
The good news is the breakfast occasion is growing but unfortunately there are more alternative breakfast.
And I think we need to change our communication to help people understand how cereal can better meet their needs at breakfast than some of those other alternatives.
To do that we're driving more investment behind things like our cereal and milk program in the U.S.
and Canada the origins program in Europe and a program in Australia we call brains and bones.
That is about kid development.
So as you look at those programs we're trying different things around the world.
So it's [indiscernible] what resonates best and we'll quickly share those learnings around the world.
So we have focused not just on our brands but also how we compete more broadly at a macro-category level at the breakfast occasion.
As you go within our brands there are some parts where we are reducing investment to your question in particular FiberPlus and Crunchy Nut are brands that quite frankly have not worked out for us.
And they're about half a share drag on our business in Q2 alone.
We are still absolutely committed to investing and improving the performance of other key parts of the business that are not performing the way we'd like such as Special K and Kashi.
On Special K we think this is a tremendous business with tremendous opportunity however I think we need to change how we communicate the benefits of Special K as people's expectations of weight management changes around the world.
So we're seeing softness not just in Special K but diet sodas reduced calorie Frozen Foods et cetera.
Weight management programs are also under pressure.
So I think consumers are changing their views on weight management from reduced calories to nutritious foods.
Now Special K can absolutely meet that criteria it's a very nutrient-dense food form but we haven't been communicating it that way.
So we are increasing our communication more down that path as opposed to reduce calories.
And then I think the decision to put Kashi back in La Jolla will enable us to speed up our development process be much more nimble agile.
And that I think will help us drive that business as well.
So I think you can see us investing back in key parts of our cereal business.
On the portfolio question itself I think we have made a wonderful acquisition in Pringles and it has done a couple of things for us.
It has more than doubled our international snacks business and tripled the size of the company in certain key emerging markets.
And that growth platform I think we are only in early days in terms of realizing the potential.
And we just have capacity coming on now in Europe and this time next year in Malaysia.
So as we think about our business we have growth strategies in areas of breakfast which is primarily cereal snacks Frozen Foods in emerging markets.
And we'll continue to look at M&amp;A opportunities to expand those platforms particularly say international snacks.
But I would say that we are very focused on our current portfolio.
We think our current portfolio is very strong and the goal for us is to return the current portfolio to growth as opposed to fundamentally reshape the portfolio.
And the next question will come from Robert Moskow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question about the management changes you've made in U.S.
cereal.
I understand that Paul Norman is now going to be running it.
Was he intimately involved in the strategic decisions you made about how to change the marketing on cereals or is there a risk that you have to start over and rethink some of the decisions now that he's running it? And then secondly I was looking at our Kantar data.
It shows some pretty significant spending declines by Kellogg Mills and Post.
I know Kantar doesn't capture the whole thing but it just makes it difficult to believe that there really was heavier weight by Kellogg in the cereal media kind of area.
And I just wanted to know exactly how much media weight was thrown against cereal on the first half? Let me take the first question on -- so I can't think of a better person than Paul Norman to be running the U.S.
cereal business right now.
Paul as you know stepped into the Chief Growth Officer role for us.
Within that he had the global breakfast team and global snacks team reporting to him as well as R&amp;D.
He's been helping us create the long-term growth strategy for the company.
Paul has tremendously deep experience in the cereal business globally and in the U.S.
in particular.
Paul ran the Morning Foods business for about 5 or so years back in the 2000s quite frankly over the period of greater success for the Kellogg Company in the U.S.
Paul was running that business.
He knows absolutely what is required to get the business back on track and he's helping us work on an exciting restage of the cereal business in 2015.
So as you think about this cereal business we need to have all guns loaded going to 2015.
We need category-building activity brand-specific activity large tent-pole events in-store which enable us to execute in-store with excellence.
Innovation or renovation is on trend for where consumers are heading and put the feet back on the street in terms of improve the merchandising support behind the business.
So I'm excited to have Paul have responsibility for that business.
I think he will absolutely help us get this business back on track where we need it to be.
On the question on Kantar cereal advertising we have increased our advertising in cereal particularly here in Q2.
What I will highlight is sometimes it's hard to track where that advertising is going because of increasing spend in areas like digital and so on.
I'm not sure how Kantar would even be able to track some of that spend.
So I'm not sure of the methodology that Kantar is using but I can assure you from a Kellogg perspective we are absolutely spending more behind advertising in cereal in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> So Paul's ascension to the role do you have to -- is he going to rethink any of the decisions that were made already or not? I think Paul is improving the plans as we go through the back half of '14 and into '15.
And the next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping to get your thoughts John on the promotional environment in food today.
Walmart talking a bit about backing off the sort of all promo all-the-time philosophy in food that hasn't really driven tonnage to the extent the company wanted.
So I'm hoping eventually right vendors to Walmart like you will be able to ease off the deal pedal a bit.
Is this a view you share? Or is it given the environment just a bit too early to get optimistic about what could be a more rational pricing environment later this year? Okay.
I can't talk about what the pricing environment might be later this year but the way we think about the categories we operate in they're all intensely-competitive categories.
I'd say that they're all relatively rational.
We are seeing some reduced promotion effectiveness for a couple of reasons.
Some retailers are putting multiple manufacturers on the one display which reduces the effectiveness of that display quite frankly not just for us but for the retailer as well.
We have to look at the quality of quality merchandising in some of our businesses we've seen less front-of-store displays or back-of-store displays.
So as we look at the business we think we have an opportunity to improve our merchandising performance and we're doing that by adding Kellogg sales reps back into the cereal business and investing back in our DSD business in snacks.
Having said that the primary way to drive this business is through brand building innovation renovation.
And that's where we see the long-term growth opportunity which is why when we talk about investing back in our business investing back to improve the quality of our current merchandising programs and to improve the quality and amount of our brand-building investment to engage consumers more effectively.
The next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll focus a little bit on your input cost and inflation.
I think a lot of people are staring at the grain price charts looking at corn falling below $4 and probably scratching their head as to why you're going to be facing 3% 3.5%-type inflation.
So can you talk a little bit about some of the components of what's driving inflation? And the next question that I'm sure people ask in looking at the chart is whether or not you were just hedged and therefore deferring the benefit into next year.
Is that indeed the case? Well as I mentioned on the call earlier Jason we are covered at approximately 90% at this point in time.
I think the thing you have to remember also is you're looking at the exchange-traded commodities which are a small percentage of the total market basket of inputs that we buy that go into our food by a number of things across commodities packaging and energy as well.
And we've said before we've seen increases or inflation across packaging.
We've seen increases in fruits and nuts a number of things energy as well.
Now I did say that our inflation was much more front-end weighted.
And as a result we will see improvement in terms of our net inflation position or net deflation position as we move into the back end of the year.
Our inflation will come down to much lower levels and our savings will ramp up as we go through the balance of the year.
And that's helping us from a profitability standpoint particularly as we get into the fourth quarter.
So some of what you are seeing within our performance also could be attributable to the positions that we took as we came into the year and the fact that we are now 90% covered on our commodities.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And turning real quick to the expense side can you quantify what brand building just on the consumer side? Considering marketing and advertising was up in the quarter.
And your comments on sort of in-line maybe a little bit better than the sales growth for the year.
You're guiding to sales down.
So does this imply that brand building may not actually grow this year? Yes so in terms of our brand building what I had said in the prepared remarks was that we were up at a mid-single-digit rate within the second quarter performance.
On our brand building as we said we expect to invest at a rate that's equal to or greater than our sales performance.
Now our sales have come down so our brand building has come down a little bit.
We've pulled some brand building out where we weren't seeing the effectiveness of that investment impacting our business.
Now what I would say though is we are still reinvesting the savings that we committed associated with Project K behind the cereal category relevance messaging and also behind sales resources across our U.S.
cereal and our U.S.
Snacks business.
And our next question comes from David Palmer of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First just a follow-up on your previous comments on Special K that weight management brand much like Yoplait or a Diet Coke or the trade-up foods of yesteryear but all having a pretty hard time recently as you said.
Do you think that the nutrient-rich advertising angle you mentioned before will be enough to turn that brand and get it back to the -- on board with its core consumer which I guess is high-income female? Or are you thinking perhaps other renovations in the brand and the ingredients are needed? And I have a second follow-up.
So David I think the answer is both on Special K.
So if you look at what's happening on weight management brands to your point whether it be diet soda weight loss programs various [indiscernible] primarily on being reduced calorie.
That's really not sufficient anymore to engage with the weight management consumer.
That consumer is now looking not just for lower calories but for benefits of food.
In some respects to move from calorie deprivation to I want to eat great healthy food.
And we do believe we have an opportunity to change our communications that our current food actually does meet that need of the consumer.
And we have the ability to innovate with new product launches that are even more on trend and to renovate some of the food in some of the markets in which we operate in.
So for example our Special K business in wholesome snacks in the U.S.
I think we have an opportunity to renovate that food and make it even more on trend from a weight management perspective.
LLC Research Division</strong> And with regard to your investments in the feet on the street and I guess you're shifting at brand-building spending is there any small signs that those -- that spending is working that you can see in what is an otherwise tough environment? And then how -- what is your timetable that you will be looking at where you say these investments are working or not working.
Where you think about making changes? We're watching these investments very closely to understand and track their impact and then learn and reapply rapidly.
As I've said we're doing different programs around the world.
Here in North America it was more cereal and milk-related from a category-building perspective.
In Europe it's origins.
In Australia it's brains and bones.
And we will rapidly reapply based on what we see gets the biggest impact.
Quite frankly how well we execute these programs also is a key driver.
So for example in Canada in Q2 we had the cereal and milk program.
It was actually very successful the retailers really got behind it merchandised milk with cereal.
And we actually stabilized our cereal business in Canada in Q2 and cereal sales were relatively flat.
We gained almost a share point in the quarter.
So we saw good outcome there.
We had pockets of excellence in the execution in the U.S.
but we were a little bit more patchy in it.
Quite frankly I think we have an opportunity to continue to drive that execution.
And that's part of the reason why we're putting some of the reps back into the U.S.
sales organization to help us with the in-store merchandising and help us with the execution of these programs.
So if you think about how we track the performance of these programs they're not programs that are necessarily designed to immediately turn the business.
These are longer-term consumer brand building-type programs.
They take time to measure and track.
But clearly we would have hoped to have seen a better response in cereal in Q2 than what we received.
We did see a better response in fact in Canada.
The back part of this year we'll have a better sense of how well these programs are working and then we'll alter and reapply as we go into 2015.
And our next question will come from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick things.
One I can't remember John was the original overall category building work in cereal did it always include sort of individual brand messages as part of the category message or is that a change? It is a bit more of a change Andrew.
We are increasing the focus on individual brands.
There was some individual brand orientation in the original work but I think we're seeing the ability to bring it to life in-store and through the whole 360 degrees is benefited by actually bringing specific brands into the programs themselves.
Research Division</strong> And then second you mentioned that even after some of the capacity actions that you've taken that Kellogg may still have still some excess capacity in cereal.
And I guess I'm wondering from maybe some of your benchmarking work if you think the industry sort of faces this too even though it seems like all the other big cereal players have taken some capacity reductions already as well? Well certainly looking at our network as I've said in the prepared remarks.
We do believe we may have some excess cereal capacity.
I think if you look at the performance of some of the other cereal manufacturers I don't think we'll be surprised if they have some excess capacity as well.
I think though they're in a better position to talk to their capacity position than I am.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all these things if there are other actions needed I assume would all be part of kind of the current Project K that you've got underway? Is that fair? We'll be looking at it in the context of Project K yes.
The next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Ron I just wanted to get a clarification on a comment you made.
So in response to Jason I think that you said that the first half inflation was positive and related to specific hedge positions the company took but that in the second half this gets significantly better.
First do I understand you correctly? And then I've got a question for John.
Yes you do understand that correctly.
So our inflation comes down significantly in the back half of the year and our productivity ramps up as well.
So we experience net deflation and more so in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And John so just kind of going back to cereal but I want to be specific.
So you had such tremendous optimism on the last call about the very specific programs on Special K Mini-Wheats and Kashi.
Just given the fact that it just doesn't look like it took much hold here in the quarter would you agree that there are fundamental macro headwinds with the consumer that are impacting this category? And until we see that low-end consumer get better that this category is fundamentally challenged.
And that even when you put in good programs it's just hard to get people to buy it when they don't have the money.
What's not correct about that statement? I think if we go back to the last quarterly conference call the guidance I gave on cereal is that we expected the category to be down for the year and for our performance to improve through the year to be more in line with the category.
It's fair to say we're a little bit disappointed with our performance in cereal in Q2 but we still have confidence that we will improve the performance as we go through the year.
I believe cereal is a long-term growth potential category.
Now in a market like the U.S.
it's probably low-single digits but the company did grow cereal in the U.S 3% to 4% on a dollar-sales perspective across most of the 2000s.
And when we did that we had tremendous brand-building programs.
We had great innovation.
We had excellent in-store execution.
So I believe we have the ability to do that.
I do believe the category is under some pressure right now from some of these breakfast alternatives.
I believe we'll resolve that by both having outstanding brand-specific activity but also by coming back and reminding consumers of how the benefits of this category is better than -- is stronger than a lot of the other alternatives at the breakfast occasion.
So I do believe that ultimately this is up to the manufacturers to improve our performance.
I believe we have an opportunity as a company to definitely bring better stronger programs to market.
As we think about restaging our cereal business going to 2015 that's what we're working to do.
So I'm not trying to suggest it's an immediate bounce back David.
I think this category will be under some pressure for some time but I do believe it can return to growth.
Research Division</strong> But it's just not in your opinion it's just not more of a macro issue with the consumer it's a specific issue of Kellogg's ability to get the category moving and as well as the other manufacturers.
Is that what you're saying? I absolutely believe that we can and we'll return this category to growth and the manufacturers are focused on doing that.
And we are definitely focused on doing that.
Laura I think we have time for one more question.
Okay that last question will come from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ron please give a bit about Venezuela? I guess you're sticking at the 6 rate.
Companies like Meade are at 11.
I think there's some consumer packaged goods companies that have already gone to like north of 50.
So what I guess triggers a change in that accounting treatment? Well first of all I guess let me talk about why we are valued where we are valued at this point in time.
And let me remind you Venezuela's a relatively small part of the business in comparison to the total company.
It's around 1% to 2% of our sales and it's around 2% of our operating profit.
We do manufacture the majority of our product within the country.
Now we do pull some raw materials and packaging materials from outside of the country into the country to be able to do that manufacturing.
But Eric we've been able to get access to funds at the official rate when we have done that we are also deemed a priority industry by the government.
The valuation of the business is really based on facts and circumstances.
And based on these facts and circumstances we were able to value the business at the 6.3 the official rate.
Now we're making sure that investors and analysts are clear within our disclosures we're giving you the information on our net asset position and then as well the earnings per share impact and I communicated that earlier on the call.
If we were to devalue the business today to that SICAD 1 rate it would impact us by about $0.07 to $0.09 on an earnings per share basis.
If we were to move to the SICAD 2 rate it would be about double that Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the key is that you continue to take the dollars out and that's what at least at this point is probably a major factor in keeping the rate where you are? Priority industry and able to get the dollars out that is correct -- or dollars in I should say at the official rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John just last question I guess on Kashi.
I think that the company had said previously that the sales for Kashi had peaked at about $0.5 billion? But it's been a number of quarters if not years now where it's been declining.
Where -- what is the revenue now? And I guess when do you think the switch to La Jolla into new -- or the return of the previous management to running that business when do we think that that can start to show results? Eric the business now is in the sort of low 400s in terms of size and we believe it has tremendous growth potential from there.
The -- David Denholm will be with the company here in the back half of the year and we expect to have that team up and operating at the end of the year.
So we're going to go through a process of moving the business back to La Jolla.
The whole purpose of moving the business back to La Jolla is to increase the rate of speed the agility to be able to get on trends much faster and be more aligned with that community.
So I expect it to have a faster impact than say turning around more of a mainstream business.
However it will take some time because it is still one of the largest natural foods businesses in the United States in fact in the world.
So we'll need to innovate renovate and get back on our front foot in that business.
So I think we'll be doing that through '15 and '16.
I'm not going to give a sales forecast for what I think's going to happen to one business though as we look out over the next -- over '15 or '16.
Okay.
Thanks Laura.
I think we're finished.
If anybody has any more follow-up questions please get a hold of us.
We'll be around for the next couple of days.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg's Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations for Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference call.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2014 results.
I'm joined by John Bryant Chairman and CEO; Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer; and Alistair Hirst Senior VP of Supply Chain.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront cost investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of the presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday November 3.
And the call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon.
And thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we announced third quarter earnings per share that were ahead of our expectations.
In addition our results for operating profit were greater than we had anticipated and sales was slightly below.
As we mentioned at the back-to-school conference last month we continue to face headwinds in developed markets and categories although we saw a good sales growth in Latin America and Asia-Pacific in the quarter.
Also as we highlighted at the conference we have some exciting ideas for innovation and brand building in 2015.
As a result of our third quarter performance being mostly as we had expected we are maintaining our guidance for the full year.
Ron will provide more color regarding this later but we continue to expect that for the full year internal net sales will be down between 1% and 2%; underlying internal operating profit will be down between 1% and 3%; and currency-neutral comparable earnings per share will be between up 1% and down 1%.
Also as you can see highlighted on the slide we continue to make progress on Project K our 4-year efficiency and effectiveness program.
In the third quarter we opened our North American service center as part of the global business services initiative.
We also announced the closure of our snack plant in Columbus Georgia and the reduction of production at our Manchester U.K.
plant.
We are very pleased with the progress we have made so far and Alistair will give more detail regarding the supply chain organization and Project K in a few minutes.
Now let's turn to Slide 4 in a brief discussion to some of the things we're working on for 2015.
We've spoken to you over the last year about some of the challenges that we faced in developed categories and regions particularly with our weight management brands.
We've also told you how we've begun to tailor our R&amp;D efforts and support to better address consumer trends.
Specifically we've been working hard on Special K globally and on Kashi in the U.S.
In the U.S.
this includes innovation like Kashi GOLEAN Crunch! which is non-GMO verified Bear Naked Granola Kashi Organic Promise sprouted grains and Raisin Chia Granola.
And it also includes Special K gluten-free and Special K protein.
In fact in the U.S.
we are completely redesigning Special K and are relaunching it is a healthy lifestyle brand across our categories.
We're also relaunching the brand in other regions around the world.
I'll talk more about this later.
And we've got a lot more planned too just some of which you can see on the slide.
You'll also see some of the broader brand-building initiatives that we have planned for early in 2015 detailed on the chart.
In the U.S.
these plans include the Give A Child A Breakfast Program and the Kellogg's Open For Breakfast Program.
Slide 5 shows specific detail regarding our Breakfast for Better Days program.
We believe that eating breakfast leads to better days and better lives.
As a result we have focused our global philanthropic efforts on providing breakfast to those who need it most.
As part of the program we will donate 1 billion servings of cereal and snacks by the end of 2016 to children and families in need worldwide.
To increase the impact of this program we also engage in campaigns that provide support for breakfast programs when consumers purchase Kellogg's cereal.
In 2015 we will run this program in 15 countries.
Our company is built on a history of caring about these issues.
And we know that consumers particularly millennials share these values.
And now I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial performance.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide 6 shows the financial results for the third quarter.
Internal sales declined by 1.7% approximately equal to last quarter's performance and slightly below our expectations.
As John mentioned we saw good growth in both Latin America and Asia-Pacific as sales in our U.S.
Morning Foods and U.S.
Snacks businesses were below expectations.
Underlying internal operating profit decreased by 1.8%.
This was better than our expectations.
We managed our overhead investment lower and reduced incentive compensation to align the performance.
While we increased brand building in our developed cereal businesses overall brand building was slightly lower year-over-year but comparable as a percent to sales.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs mark-to-market adjustments and Project K costs were $0.94 per share in the quarter.
This result included a negative $0.01 per share impact from a higher tax rate.
Currency translation had no impact on earnings year-over-year.
Reported earnings per share for the quarter were $0.62 including $0.02 of Pringles integration costs $0.19 of upfront cost related to Project K and an $0.11 impact from mark-to-market adjustments.
Slide 7 shows the composition of the third quarter sales growth.
Total internal sales declined by 1.7% and total price and mix improved by 0.2%.
Both Latin America and Asia-Pacific posted gains.
Volume decreased by 1.9% in the quarter.
This decline was the result of the performance of our developed cereal businesses around the world and the performance of the U.S.
Snacks business.
We do continue to see good volume growth in our international snack businesses and in our cereal business in Asia.
Finally currency translation impacted reported sales growth by a negative 0.4% in the quarter primarily as a result of the euro and the Canadian dollar.
Slide 8 shows our underlying recorded gross profit and gross margin for the quarter.
Our underlying gross margin decreased by 20 basis points in the quarter and was impacted by a fixed cost absorption due to the lower volume in our network.
We also saw a bit more inflation in cost of goods sold related to distribution costs.
Our savings from productivity were in line with expectations.
We're essentially covered on commodities and packaging for the remainder of the year and we have taken some coverage on commodities and packaging for next year.
We'll give you guidance for 2015 on the fourth quarter conference call but material related inflation for next year currently looks to be relatively benign.
Slide 9 shows the quarterly internal operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's internal operating profit decreased by 9%.
This is driven by our lower sales performance particularly in the cereals and snacks businesses.
In addition capacity issues as a co-factor had an impact on the sales and profitability of our specialty business.
Investment in brand building as a percent of sales was unchanged in North America in the third quarter although we did increase our investment in cereal at a high single-digit basis.
We expect improvements in operating profit performance in the fourth quarter in North America although we continue to expect that operating profit will be down for the year.
Internal operating profit in Europe increased by 4% in the quarter.
This growth was primarily driven by lower input inflation as well as productivity savings and cost of goods sold.
Internal operating profit grew by 20% in Latin America.
Top line growth of more than 7% drove the result.
In addition the growth in operating profit included a double-digit increase in brand building in the period.
And we saw an increase in internal operating cost of 5% in the Asia-Pacific region in the quarter.
This is driven by solid top line growth and strong productivity in cost of goods sold.
And the results also included an increase in investment and brand building.
Slide 10 shows year-to-date cash flow through the third quarter.
Cash flow from operations was $1.18 billion on track with our expectations for the year and we still expect cash flow from operations after capital spending to be at the low end of our range between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
Cash flow through the third quarter was below last year's level primarily due to the cash required for Project K.
We continue to make good progress on our accounts payable initiative and expect it to improve annual cash flow by around $200 million this year.
Capital spending was $355 million so far this year.
And our expectation is that capital spending for the full year will be between 4% and 5% of sales including investment for Pringles Project K and a new plant in India.
And finally share repurchases through the third quarter were $690 million.
And it's worth noting that we have returned approximately $1 billion to shareowners so far this year.
We continue to expect that we'll reduce our average share count by approximately 1.5% over the full year.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 in our guidance for 2014.
As always this guidance excludes items that affect comparability and please see our notes for details.
It's important to know that our currency-neutral guidance remains consistent with our prior outlook.
Currency was previously expected to provide a $0.03 benefit to earnings per share and we now expect it to be neutral for the year.
As John mentioned we continue to expect that internal net sales will be down between 1% and 2% for the full year.
Total cost of goods inflation is expected to be near the high end of our 3% to 4% range but we still expect that productivity and savings from Project K will more than offset the inflation.
This should lead to moderate net deflation for the year.
And we now expect that underlying reported gross margins will be flat to down slightly for the full year including higher distribution costs and lower volume through our manufacturing plants.
We continue to expect that underlying internal operating profit will be in a range between down 1% and down 3%.
And we continue to expect that currency-neutral comparable earnings will be in a range between down 1% and up 1% or $3.81 to $3.89 per share.
We still expect that the 53rd week will add approximately $0.07 per share.
And as I mentioned earlier currency will now have no year-over-year impact.
This should result in an earnings per share including the 53rd week of $3.88 to $3.96.
The tax rate is expected to be approximately 29% and interest expense is now anticipated to be approximately $210 million.
And as I mentioned earlier we continue to anticipate that cash flow will be at the low end of the range between $1 billion and $1.1 billion.
And we still expect capital spending to be between 4% and 5% of sales.
The only change to the earnings per share walk on Slide 12 is the outlook for the impact of currencies.
Note that this outlook still excludes any potential impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
Our estimates for integration cost have not changed and are still between $0.07 and $0.09 per share.
Project K costs are expected to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.65 per share.
And now I'll turn it over to Alistair for some comments on supply chain and Project K before John discusses the operating segments.
Thank you Ron and good morning everyone.
Slide 14 details the vision we have for the supply chain organization and it's one that I showed you last year.
We have a great supply chain team here at Kellogg and we are committed to delivering high-quality food while developing a supply-chain that creates the best value for the lowest cost.
And we've made some significant changes to the organization over the last 3 years.
I'll talk more about that in a minute but some of the improvements we've made and the processes we've implemented combined with the Project K initiative have allowed us to continue to reach our goals and provide flexibility to the broader organization.
In fact we continuously strive to be a strong stable foundation from which the company can grow.
Now let's turn to Slide 15 and a few details regarding the initiatives underway in the organization.
First we are aligning the network to better reflect the current state of the business and to anticipate future demands.
A lot of work has been done.
A lot of work is underway to build the supply chain of the future.
We have also done a lot of work to better organize the structure of the supply chain.
This has involved changes designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of both our processes and production.
And finally we have made a significant amount of progress implementing our global business services initiative.
So let's take look at each in a little more detail.
First let's look at Slide 16 and some more detail regarding the alignment of the supply chain network.
We are a year into Project K and we have announced a number of changes to the network.
And we are on plan in all 4 regions.
We are targeting having the right number of plants and the right amount of capacity within those plants in each of the businesses.
As I said we must create the supply chain of the future one that anticipates the needs of the business in the years to come.
In North America we've announced consolidation in both our cereal and snack networks and we are executing the real occasional[ph] production according to plan.
In Europe we've announced the reduction of capacity at cereal plants in the U.K.
and we've also successfully begun producing Pringles in Poland at our new snack facility in Kutno.
We are particularly proud of our teams in Europe and Kutno for bringing this plant online in the vertical startup between the production of the first chip on June 13 and the completion of the first shippable case on June 28.
And this plant has already produced well over 15 million cans of Pringles and is at 80% utilization.
In Latin America we've successfully completed a restructuring of the supply chain and have successfully executed a decoupling strategy between the Mexican and Guatemalan businesses.
This means that we now ship both product to Guatemala where it's packed to demand.
In Asia-Pacific we've announced the construction of a Pringles plant in Malaysia and increasing capacity at a snacks plant in Thailand and construction of a cereal plant in India each of which will supply product to the Asia-Pacific region.
And again all of this has been done to plan and on budget.
As you can tell with a lot of work underway we're continuing to review the network for a few good opportunities.
Slide 17 shows a few specifics regarding changes to the structure of the supply chain organization.
We have standardized processes and streamlined the organization.
First we have invested a significant amount of resource in the development of both people and processes in what we call design to value.
This is just what you'd imagine.
It's coordination across insights marketing research and development and supply chain to take an idea and get the design of the food and packaging right and to give the consumer what they're willing to pay for.
And as importantly it's also about getting the economics of the design right at the same time.
The second part of the process is what we call produce to design.
Producing exactly what was envisioned in the development process is very important for the success of the food and also for the economics of the introduction.
And it has a meaningful impact on the quality of the food we produce.
So we've also invested a significant amount of time on improving this process.
And we've done this while also reducing corporate supply chain overhead.
Now let's turn to Slide 18 and the final piece of Project K and some of the additional changes we've made to the supply chain.
We have made great progress in the implementation of the global business services initiative or GBS.
This initiative will focus on 4 functions with the first being the finance function.
We have announced 2 regional hubs 1 is in Michigan for North America and the other is in Bucharest for Europe.
Our GBS is a three-tiered model a smaller amount of the company's functional work will continue to be done in the business units and the remainder will be done at the global service center.
The North America Center opened in the third quarter of this year and the European center will open next year.
In addition other parts of GBS are having a positive impact too although it's early in the process.
In source-to-pay we are focused on global analysis in the procurement function which has made the process more efficient and effective.
We've also been driving the efficiency of our demand planning activities which is simply a means of improving our forecast accuracy which will lead to lower inventory less waste lower logistics cost better fill rate and increased efficiency.
And it will also support our plans to drive sustainability as I'll discuss in a minute.
As our transportation group is working on increasing the efficiency of our network and we're seeing meaningful savings which are helping us to mitigate the cost inflation that Ron just previously mentioned.
And now as you'll to turn to Slide 19 you'll see the time line detailing areas of focus for the organization.
In 2012 we focused on the fundamentals and saw a lot of success.
In 2014 we are continuing to focus on the right to win.
This includes the implementation of Kellogg Work Systems or KWS.
KWS is a proven model that promotes employee engagement and drives increased efficiency including lower rates of waste.
And KWS along with other initiatives has helped us build a stable manufacturing network.
This in turn has provided a base for increased productivity in the supply chain organization and in other areas of the business.
I'll talk about some of the successes we've had in a minute.
And finally is the right to lead.
Some of the activities that I have already mentioned will contribute to the creation of truly end-to-end supply chain solutions over the next couple of years.
This important next step will be our focus in both 2015 and 2016.
As I told you last year we want to be dependable but agile and we must drive profitable sales growth.
And most importantly we must do all of this while maintaining the safety of our food and our people.
As I mentioned earlier Slide 20 shows detail regarding some of the successes we've had as we've executed the right to win initiatives.
We've seen good performance on safety rates over recent years as the total recordable incident rate has remained low.
Our history of driving cost savings through productivity has been very good with us meeting or exceeding our target of 3% to 4% annual savings in recent years.
And on food safety we've seen a measurable improvement.
Obviously each of these areas remains very important to us.
They represent a continuous process.
And we believe that the great work we've done over the past few years can continue and that our performance can actually improve even more.
And finally before we reach the summary let's turn to Slide 21 on our commitments to sustainability.
As you know we view improvement in this area as a continuous journey and it is one to which we are strongly committed.
We understand that our consumers are concerned about the environment where their food comes from and how it is grown as are we.
Sustainability of being part of the company for more than 100 years and we recently announced commitments for global sustainability that we plan to achieve by 2020.
We are focusing our support in the livelihoods of the farmers growers and suppliers that rely on us and on whom we depend.
And in addition we are building up on the environmental commitments we announced in 2008 as we work to further conserve natural resources where we source and produce our foods.
Of course these are the right things to do for our suppliers our employees our customers and our consumers but they're also the right thing to do for the health of the business and that help cost savings and increased productivity.
So let's turn now to Slide 22 and my summary.
The supply chain organization has come a long way in recent years.
We have increased our performance when measured by a number of metrics.
And most importantly we've built a solid and dependable base which can enable future growth and profitability.
We have started to realign the network to provide a footprint that will serve the future Kellogg.
We've invested in improving the whole supply chain from design to production.
We've seen significant improvement already and expect more as we develop these initiatives over the next couple of years.
And we're driving increased effectiveness and efficiency through the implementation of GBS.
Project K the evolution of the supply chain the savings we get and the reinvestment are all a process.
We're on a 4-year journey.
It is going well so far.
And we are optimistic regarding our ability to drive it further in the years to come.
And we remain confident in our flexibility where developing will drive future profitable growth.
And now I'd like to end by thanking all of the employees of the supply chain organization globally for all their hard work.
The process isn't an easy one but they are executing with excellence.
And now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Alistair.
Now let's turn to Slide 23 and some specifics regarding the Morning Foods business.
As you can see internal net sales declined by 4.7% in the quarter.
We started our category building programs in the second quarter in the U.S.
and the third quarter in the U.K.
and Australia.
In the U.S.
it's fair to say that while we saw some improvement in our consumption trends in general and in Q2 in particular we saw less improvement than we have hoped.
We are continuing our media investment in the fourth quarter.
And as I mentioned earlier we have more initiatives planned for early 2015 and more to come later in the year.
Remember that this is an ongoing initiative.
we've got some exciting ideas planned.
We remain confident that the category will return to growth over time.
Specifically in the third quarter Special K and Kashi accounted for all of our declining category share.
So on Special K we are changing the positioning of the brand by focus on dieting to weight loss.
This focus will stress the role that Special K can play in the healthy lifestyle.
We are reinventing all aspects of the Special K brand in 2015.
This will include innovation packaging advertising and consumer promotion.
And each of these changes will highlight Special K's position as part of our weight loss program.
We have new packaging and advertising that highlight the simplicity and goodness of the food.
We have consumer promotions that will help people meet their goals and we have innovation including Special K protein and Special K food and treats that will directly appeal to consumer trends.
And we'll also extend innovations beyond the traditional cereal category with more hot cereals planned.
Also we launched the Special K goes beyond cereal and captures all the elements of the brand in the U.S.
including Special K cracker chips and Special K bars.
We also have plans for Kashi.
This is a great brand in a category that's on trend and we need to lead more with both the Kashi and the Bear Naked brands.
We are completing the renovation of the GOLEAN brand to make it certified GMO free.
We're converting the heart-to-heart brand to USDA organic and we're targeting more progressive nutrition with innovation such as sprouted grains chia granola and others.
On Bear Naked we're experimenting with new blends of granola and we've also got some new Bear Naked bars.
As you know David Denholm and his team are just getting started on the transition of Kashi and Bare Naked and we know that making structural improvements is not a quick fix.
However we are making the right decisions and we think that these great brands will return to growth over time.
And finally for Morning Foods.
Consumption in our Pop-Tarts business declined in the quarter due to difficult comparisons resulting from the introduction of Peanut Butter Pop-Tarts last year and the timing of introductions this year.
We've got a new PB&amp;J variety of planned introduction in November and believe that this business will return to growth.
So we're making progress with our plans for the cereal business and to driving category growth over the longer term.
We're addressing the issues we face and the team is doing a lot of work on both innovation and brand building.
As I mentioned earlier we realized that there is no quick fix in this business but we're confident that we'll start to see improvement as we progress through next year.
Now let's turn to Slide 24 and take a closer look at our cereal plans for 2015.
The slide is similar to one that Paul Norman shared with you at the back-to-school conference and highlights the actions we will take to drive improvement in the cereal category in developed markets.
First of all consumer trends are continually evolving and we have to better appeal to changing views on helpful moments.
This means meeting the changing needs of consumers and more quickly addressing the trends that we saw.
For example you can see on the chart Kashi Organic sprouted grains and Kashi Raisin and chia granola.
These new products along with high-protein Special K and gluten-free Special K are our first step in the right direction.
Next we must continue to offer better convenience through the use of new packaging ideas the development of new foods and entry into adjacencies like breakfast drinks.
Next as I mentioned earlier we must engage on the consumers on the issues that they care most about as we're doing with our Breakfast for Better Days programs and our Open for Breakfast platform.
And finally we have to drive better impact through the path to purchase.
This means having excellent sales fundamentals and great in-store execution.
It also means adding fun back into the bars and driving bigger events and more in-store bid-up.
These are our 4 main areas of focus as we head into next year.
Let's turn to Slide 25 and our U.S.
Snacks business.
Internal net sales declined by 4.2% in the third quarter.
It's important to note that this performance was driven by weakness in weight management products as it was in the cereal business.
In fact Special K bars Special K cracker chips and Right Bites' 100-calorie cookie packs accounted for essentially all of the quarterly sales decline posted in this segment.
Again 0.3 of a point of share in the cracker category in the quarter.
The Cheez-It brand posted consumption growth of 2.9% Town House posted growth of 4.9% and account posted growth of 6.5% all significantly better than the category's performance.
Cheez-It groups has gained more than a point of share since it was launched earlier this year and the original versions of both Town House and Club brands continue to post good results due to brand building support and good sales execution.
We lost share in the cookie category in the quarter.
Of those I mentioned Chip Deluxe and Fudge Shoppe posted good growth in consumption headed by Chips Delights products co-branded with M&amp;Ms and by Fudge Shoppe pantry packs.
Our cookie business was again most affected by the consumption of Right Buys' 100-calorie packs consumption declined at an accelerated rate and accounted for more than half of Kellogg's share loss in the quarter.
We again saw the effect of reductions in the number of SKUs in the tail that we told you about last quarter and we expect this impact will continue for the balance of this year and into early next year.
Consumption in the wholesome snack category declined by almost 2% in the period and Kellogg lost share.
Within that though Nutri-Grain posted a slight gain in category share and Rice Krispies Treats posted a double-digit increase in consumption and gained 0.8 of a point of share.
The strong performance of our Rice Krispies was aided by good cohort and of the launch of new Rice Krispies treat blast.
Kellogg's overall share loss was driven by declines in the consumption of both Special K bars and FiberPlus bars.
The issues with these brands are similar to ones we've seen in the cereal category.
To address these issues we have new products and activities planned for introduction in the fourth quarter and in 2015.
For example we are launching differentiated Special K bars and new Special K Cracker Chips and are completely relaunching the brand in early 2015.
The Pringles business posted net sales growth of approximately 7% in the quarter with good results in non-measured channels.
Growth was driven by the Pringles core care grab and go and the new Tortilla Pringles.
The productivity planned for both the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year and optimistically going to future growth for this great brand in the U.S.
and around the world.
Obviously we aren't unhappy with the performance of our snack business.
Pringles the cracker business and the core cookie business are performing well although we've continued to see underperformance in some areas and in the wholesome snack business specifically.
We are increasing investment in our snack business and are developing plans to drive improvement as we get into 2015.
Now let's turn to Slide 26 in the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Internal net sales decreased by 4.1% in the quarter.
This was driven by capacity issues and then copackers and then inventory dealer is a customer shifted from warehouse to direct delivery.
It is important to note that these issues are now behind us although they had a significant impact on results for the quarter.
Excluding them we saw net sales growth driven in part by good results in innovation.
Elsewhere in the business we saw a strong response to innovation in the K-12 school business in Foodservice as we've introduced wholegrain Rice Crispy Treats new toaster pastries new Cheez-It crackers and Eggo Pop Chips for the back-to-school period.
We've done well in cereal and snacks and have gained share in the waffle pancake and toasted pastry segment.
In the convenience business we achieved share growth in hot cereal salty snack and cracker segments.
Kellogg posted double-digit consumption growth in the salty snack category as a rate more than twice that at the category[indiscernible].
And we again saw a decline in sales in custard segment as we exited some less profitable businesses.
Overall results in the Specialty Channels business was disappointing in the third quarter and with the result of the issues I mentioned.
Our expectations our better results in the fourth quarter.
Slide 27 shows the performance of the North America Other segment which include the U.S.
Frozen Foods and Canadian businesses.
Overall this segment posted an internal sales decline of 1.1% in the quarter.
The Frozen Foods business posted a slight decline in internal net sales in the quarter although volumes increased in a low single-digit rate.
The net sales performance was a result of mix and costs associated with launch of new products.
New Eggo Bites continue to do well in the quarter and we just began the launch of new Eggo handheld sandwiches in September.
Obviously it's still very early but initial indications are that it's being well received.
And we're also excited to be relaunching the Leggo My Eggo brand building program in the fourth quarter as well.
Net sales also declined slightly in the Canadian business in the quarter although we saw good results in the frozen food business and the snack business.
In addition the consumption of Pringles increased at double-digit rate in the latest quarterly data as the launch of Tortilla Pringles has also gone very well in Canada.
In 2014 in Canada where we executed our cereal and milk program well[ph] we saw a good response.
And we have a heightened focus on processing with both Special K cereal and handheld sandwiches planned for 2015.
In addition we've got new activity planned for All-Bran Froot Loops and [indiscernible] and we've got other innovations scheduled for launch between Kashi cereal and snacks.
Let's turn to Slide 28 in our European business.
Net sales in the region declined by 0.6% in the third quarter.
The snacks business performed well largely due to good results from Pringles which was offset by declines in the cereal business.
The performance posted by individual countries was largely as expected except for a shortfall in Germany driven by changes to the commercial schedule.
The most significant challenge in the region remains the performance of the Special K brand.
As we mentioned earlier we have initiatives intended to address this performance planned for 2015 including new communication an upgrade to the food improvement in packaging and better promotional activities.
In the U.K.
our cereal programs are showing early signs of success.
The parent brand origins program and the back-to-school themes program both achieved good retail support and execution.
In addition we are making progress in the rollout of breakfast stations which includes cereal cups.
Offsetting this growth was the continuing deflationary environment in the U.K.
As a result we are focused on improving both mix and the effectiveness of promotions.
And finally for the European business.
The Pringles business posted mid-single digit net sales growth in the third quarter.
This continued strong performance was driven by our focus on improving availability visibility and awareness.
Investment and brand building for Pringles increased in a double-digit rate.
We saw good results from the summer speaker camp promotion with outstanding execution of retail.
Growth was broad-based across all markets.
Slide 29 shows the performance of our Latin American business.
We posted 7.3% net sales growth in the quarter.
This was a result of growth in Venezuela Mexico and [indiscernible] business.
The cereal business in Latin America posted good results in the third quarter where we saw some competitive price promotions in Mexico which was better than chocolate and all family segments later in the period.
We saw some share gains in Q2 in the Colombian and Venezuelan business.
And in Mexico we're implementing parent brand programs supporting the relaunch of Choco Krispies and All-Bran and beginning a nutrition related initiative.
The underlying momentum of the Pringles business continues driven by strong commercial programs innovation and great execution.
And the wholesome snack business is driving share growth despite the slowdown in category in Mexico and Puerto Rico.
We expect to continue good sales growth in Latin America in the fourth quarter and we will again increase investment in brand building in the double-digit range.
We have granola and Muesli launching in parts of the region in the fourth quarter.
We have parent brand programs continuing as well and we have a lot more activity scheduled to begin in the first quarter of 2015.
Now let's turn to Slide 30 and our Asia-Pacific business.
Asia-Pacific posted strong results in the third quarter.
Net sales increased by 5% both the Asian and Pringles businesses posted double-digit net sales growth in the quarter.
Net sales in Australia declined in the quarter although this represented a sequential improvement from the results posted in the first half of the year.
Performance in the third quarter benefited from the timing of promotion innovation and the Breakfast for Better Days current brand activity.
Consumption in the cereal category in Australia however continued to be under pressure during the period.
The sales decline in Australia was more than offset by the double-digit growth in the Asian and Pringles businesses.
Net sales in India increased in the double-digit rate and the business appears to have rebounded from a macro economic-driven weakness we saw earlier in the year.
In addition the Japanese business also posted double-digit net sales growth driven by a continued strong performance of granola.
So we had a good quarter in the Asia Pacific region and we're optimistic we're growing the potential for this business as we enter 2015.
So finally let's turn to Slide 31 and the summary.
The third quarter's earnings per share and operating profit were ahead of our expectation and we're maintaining our guidance for the year.
And we're also making the right calls in a difficult environment.
We are seeing strong growth from our acquisitions of Pringles.
We continue to execute Project K well.
It will provide us with the tool we need for growth over the next few years.
We have invested in the U.S.
sales organization in both warehouse and networks.
And we continue to invest in creating food that is on trend.
And we will continue to invest in our great brands over time.
We know that these are the right actions although we also know that sustainable improvement will take time.
These Kellogg employees are making a difference every day.
They are driving the efficiencies generating the ideas and executing the plans necessary for improvement in the years to come.
So as always I'd like to end by thanking them for all their hard work.
And with that I'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from David Hayes with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I should just keep to one question as requested.
So just on A&amp;P spend.
Obviously you talked A&amp;P at group level being slightly down year-on-year in the quarter.
I was just wondering if you could be a little bit more specific about the extent of what is slightly down.
And then tying that into the Morning Foods category I wonder if you can be more specific about the A&amp;P profile in the quarter in that category.
And I guess the reason I'm driving into that is because with the change of management with Paul coming across and then the Kashi management changes as well.
I wonder whether there was a delay to some extent in the brand communication support and that you catch that up in the fourth quarter which then leads to the question does the fourth quarter see an uplift year-on-year on the A&amp;P spend.
David it's Ron.
Yes in terms of our A&amp;P spend year-over-year our brand building essentially was down in line with the decline in sales.
So what I said in the prepared remarks was that as a percent to sales our brand building was comparable year-over-year.
So a little less than 2 points of decline.
Now specifically in Morning Foods we increased our A&amp;P at a high single-digit rate.
So we've invested behind the category building programs that we intended to invest behind in the quarter.
And the next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Are there any indications from your perspective that the heavy promotional environment we've seen across food is abating at all? I was at a Kroger store tour yesterday.
I can't recall ever seeing so many yellow sale signs up at the same time.
So I'm guessing not but I'm just hoping to pick your brain a little bit on whether there's any light at the end of the tunnel here.
Ken as I look at the categories that we operate in we operate in categories that are always intensely competitive.
I don't think we're seeing a big increase in the promotional activity within the categories in which we operate.
However I think there are a number of other categories in the food area that have been seeking more merchandising support.
And that is providing more -- a broader competition for the same amount of real estate in store.
And so as a result I think we are seeing a little less performance than we'd like to see from our merchandising activity in-store.
Research Division</strong> And as you talk to -- just a follow-up.
As you talk to your customers about that -- and again maybe it's not in your categories so it's harder to see.
But is there any indication that it gets better from here or just more of the same as we go given the struggles across center store? I can't think everyone is growth of the U.S.
and expect the pressure to continue to be there on merchandising.
Our solution to that is to invest back into our sales organization and take more of our future into our own hands.
We're doing that by investing back in our DSP organization this year adding additional reps.
And reintroducing the warehouse reps on the cereal side which will probably have more impact in the '15 than in '14.
But ultimately we realize that we have the responsibility to create that entertainment in store as well as working with our retail partners.
And the next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John you've used the words this morning no quick fix on the cereal side several times and that's certainly consistent with your previous comments as well.
And you're certainly not ready to go into detail on 2015 yet.
But I guess on the spirit of your comments it would seem like our expectation ought to be that the ramped up savings that start to come from Project K next year are likely needed for reinvestment rather than let's say a whole bunch of it dropping to the bottom line next year.
Particularly given all the new items you have coming in '15 would you say that's more directionally a fair comment at this stage? Andrew just say I'd rather not give 2015 guidance until we get to the fourth quarter conference call.
If I sit back and look at our company the key thing that we need to do is to return the company to top line growth.
Our sales are down 1% to 2% this year on internal basis.
Quite frankly in the current environment we only need sales growth of plus 1% to 2% to make our economic algorithm work.
And so we are focused on doing that and Project K is a big enabler to enable us to invest back in the business whether it be back into our sales organization in the U.S.
back into improving our foods so it's even more on trend.
We're changing consumer views of health and wellness and investing back in brand building although recognizing that we have $1.5 billion of brand building already so we have quite a bit of fuel in the engine.
So I appreciate the question but I'll defer until the fourth quarter call to give more specific guidance on 2015.
And the next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my major concern about the cereal category and I guess other carb snacks in the portfolio is consistent with what you've said John is that consumers attitudes towards carbs and the mix of carbs in their diet is changing against you.
And it just seems like every dietitian nutritionist and athlete is talking about reducing carbs.
So I guess I'm asking is it unrealistic to assume that the cereal category and you have the resources to change those attitudes or at least educate people on balance between carbs and protein? There's nothing evil about carbs.
But with all of these experts saying one thing what can the cereal category do to kind of -- to change that? Robert I think if you step back and look at the food industry there's a lot of fads and trends that go through the food industry at any point in time.
Clearly some of those items out there right now are not helpful to the cereal category whether it be carbs or gluten-free or some of the other ones that are out there.
What we need to do is to continue to provide foods that are more on trend with some of those beliefs and also to communicate to people some of the great benefits that our foods have.
Our foods are very simple a corn flake is essentially corn being rolled and toasted and Rice Krispies just rice that's been puffed.
Talk about the simplicity of the foods talk about the healthy elements of the food whether it be fiber or whole grain et cetera.
So I think we have an opportunity to talk about the benefits of the food more.
Also the foods that have been more on why would some of those changing trends and continue to work to help consumers understand the benefits of the food.
So I don't believe it's beyond our ability to improve on the current environment.
I would say that I'd be cautious on the speed of that improvement as we look out into 2015.
And the next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I got a question about just gross margins and gross profits.
And I guess really 2 parts to it.
One is could you give us some sort of context around how much volume deleveraging right now is weighing down on gross profits and gross margins.
Trying to just get a sense of what -- how that's affecting the base and as you improve volume growth what type of leverage that are maybe on that.
And then the second part is just looking out over the next few years as you get through the supply chain improvements that you're making.
Is there a sense that gross margins can get back into kind of the low 40s levels where they had been historically? Or is there something else that might impede that ability to get gross margins back up to closer to historical levels? Sure Brian it's Ron.
So in terms of our gross margin expectations we've said when we launched Project K that the initiatives we would undertake in association with Project K could improve our gross margins by about 150 basis points over that 4-year period.
And we still believe that obviously there are a number of other things that could impact us over that 4-year period including significant commodity deinflation not suggesting that that's going to occur but obviously that's a factor.
So we do have a goal as you look at our sustainable growth model as well as to improve our gross margins over time so that we can invest back in brand building and innovation.
In terms of the fixed cost absorption impact from deleveraging a bit on terms of volume it's not significant in terms of impact to our full year gross margin.
We have now said that our gross margin will be flat to down slightly.
Previously it was flat to up slightly.
Distribution costs are also a factor in there though Bryan.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear there's nothing that's really changed since you announced -- initiated Project K that would sort of change your gross margin sort of goals longer-term? That's correct.
And the next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Guys I think you said that the 2014 inflation would be positive and it's in line with your initial expectations but that the second half of '14 would be more favorable than the front half.
And then moving into 2015 Ron I think you said in your script you used the word benign.
I kind of take that as 0.
Big picture are we finally kind of entering the tipping point where cost savings are well ahead of the inflation? And how will you spend the net savings? So David our cost savings in 2014 are ahead of inflation for the full year.
I said for the full year we do expect slight net deflation.
And as I've said all along this year that net deflation is more pronounced obviously in the second half of the year.
So we saw a little bit of net deflation in the third quarter and a little bit of net deflation in the fourth quarter as well and that's helping us to manage our guidance from an operating profit standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Can you make a comment on '15 given you're mentioning that this inflation was benign? So that's more favorable than what's been going on? I mean it's -- and I mean I don't want to read too much in this but is that accurate? Well so from a material inflation standpoint what I said was it's more benign.
I think the thing to remember David is there are a number of other things that can impact our inflation or cost structure.
That includes transportation and logistics cost.
It includes factory costs as well.
So I prefer to give you more robust guidance when we get down to the fourth quarter call.
But for now what we're seeing is a relatively benign commodity inflation.
Research Division</strong> We're watching oil plummet.
So I feel like that sounds like it should be a fun call in the fourth quarter.
I'll leave it there and pass it on.
And the next question comes from David Palmer with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your European segment margin it's been pretty steady this year around the 12% area.
That's obviously a nice improvement year-over-year and perhaps fueled in part by still getting synergies out of Pringles.
Where do you see that division margin going over time? Can you continue to drive margins meaningfully higher with similar revenue trends? So we have had good performance in our European margin this year.
Input costs are a factor there.
We've seen lower input cost versus prior year and in addition very strong productivity savings.
Obviously we have a goal to grow our Europe operating margins over time.
We haven't cited specifically a goal at this point in time but we do believe there's opportunity for improvement in those margins.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just separately one more.
On Kashi are you getting any positive responses on the specific SKUs where you're reformulating the product in -- from the consumer or the trade? Does it feel like there's a turn coming with that brand either in velocity or shelf space? As with Kashi we are getting some positive responses from retailers about putting Kashi back in California putting a dedicated team around it.
And retailers are very excited to work with us to get that business back into growth.
Having said that we have seen some disruption losses through the year on Kashi.
And unfortunately that's going to continue to weigh upon that business even as we go into 2015.
I think it's going to take some time as we take that brand more broadly GMO free and we have some additional USDA organic SKUs coming in.
But I don't think renovating the food alone is going to be enough.
I think we're going to bring out some new innovation bring out some new foods and truly get on the front edge leading edge of pioneering nutrition.
We have a new team that's tremendously excited to do that.
A lot of energy around this.
But unfortunately it's going to take some time for us to see improved trends in the Kashi business.
And the next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sorry but a couple of questions.
I guess first Ron your annual target this year implies an $0.08 range.
Can you just talk a little bit about what would put you for the fourth quarter either at the high end or the low end of that? Sure Eric.
I mean obviously our business is very sensitive to top line performance.
So if there's anything that's going to drive towards the high end or the low end of that range it's going to be top line performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question maybe for John.
The -- how much -- I think this is -- maybe it's the second quarter or third quarter in a row where Pop-Tarts have been down materially.
It's 80% share it's got to be one of your most profitable businesses.
Like how much of that is playing a role in kind of the morning or even North American profits being under pressure? And kind of what gives you the confidence that that business which I think by your -- as you've stated before has been up for something like 40 years in a row? What should give us the confidence that that can rebound? Eric as you say Pop-Tarts is a great business.
It's been a long-term growth.
The last 2 quarters we have been soft in Pop-Tarts largely because in the prior-year period we were very strong behind the peanut butter launch as we got tremendous in-store display and execution.
This year our Pop-Tarts innovation is more later in the year.
Sort of a peanut butter and jelly Pop-Tart coming out in the fourth quarter which we expect to hear some good support behind as well.
So it really had to do with comparisons.
If you were to go back and compare it to the business 2 years ago it's still doing reasonably well.
So it's really a year-on-year comp issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sorry the last question.
You've been very public through most of this year about the problems with Special K and Kashi.
And obviously you're about to it sounds like completely redo the brand.
So is this kind of transition period here-- Like does that explain the fact that that business sounds like it's just been kind of as it currently stands falling off a cliff and responsible for so much of the underperformance in the North America operation? I think we're clearly struggling with Special K in the U.S.
this year.
But quite frankly Special K in all of the large markets has been -- developed markets has been struggling.
What's happening there is we have communicated Special K around dieting lose weight over a 2-week period and we really need to move that to a weight wellness discussion really away from reduced calories to the food itself has tremendous nutrient benefits.
That requires us to change their communications to focus on that but also to make some food improvements which is what we're doing in cereal in Special K bars in cracker chips.
And until we get some of that new food out there while the communication shift will help us really the competition shift in combination with the food in combination with new consumer promotions and packaging that whole relaunch element was required to get the excitement around the brand to drive reappraisal to bring people back into what is a tremendous franchise.
I think the softness we're seeing in the third quarter is greater than we've seen year-to-date But quite frankly we've seen the softness through the first half of the year as well.
And the next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So John I appreciate that you're a cereal company at your core but you've assembled a pretty formidable snack business over the years.
Cereal category's clearly soft across a number of your markets? And John you seem to suggest this is driven by a fad or trend that may just need to run its course.
Meanwhile snack's a growth year.
So I see your slide on plans for 2015.
It looks like around 90% of these initiatives you detail adhere to breakfast.
And I hear you talking about curtailing brand building overall but ramping at high single digits in Morning Foods.
So my question is why are these the right investment priorities? I'm not suggesting you put cereal in outright harvest mode? But why isn't every incremental dollar going to your snack portfolio to turn that around and ride the wave that's in front of you now? Jason a great question.
We have 45% cereal 45% snacks today.
And as we look at the 2015 plans while the slide might suggest more of a focus on cereal in reality we are investing back in both of our businesses and we have some brands that actually cross both businesses.
So the investment in Special K and cereal actually also helps the snacks business as well.
So as we look at the cereal business look at 2015 we're going to continue to invest in the cereal business.
But I wouldn't want you to believe that we are going to disproportionately invest back into the cereal business.
We'll be investing back behind growth in Pringles.
We're investing back behind the growth we're seeing in that cracker portfolio in the U.S.
And so we have some great growth opportunity as we go forward here.
So I'd say it's a balanced investment in growth across the portfolio.
And the next question comes from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about takeaway versus shipments.
I appreciate it's been challenging in the grocery aisles with increased merchandising from categories that traditionally haven't received as much merchandising support from the retailers.
So could you just talk about particularly within North America and in your key categories what you're seeing shipments versus consumer take away? Looking in the U.S.
DST system is normally-- shipments in consumption tend to marry up pretty closely.
So I wouldn't say there's anything to flag there.
I think on Frozen Foods maybe a little bit of shipment ahead of consumption as we launch some new products.
But we feel good about the programs we have there.
And then on cereal we ended the quarter with a little bit more inventory than last year but we expect to end the year with the same amount of inventory as we had last year.
And the next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about -- actually following on from Jason's question about where to allocate resources.
Is there a broader question about portfolio shift here that is about maybe trying to acquire or increase your exposure to snacks which is a growth category over time both in the U.S.
and globally? And maybe deemphasizing the cereal category really depends on how structurally challenged you believe the cereal category is? But how do you think about portfolio shift over the longer term? Alexia I think if you go back over the last decade or so we've taken the company from being 70% cereal to 45% cereal 45% snacks.
That's been driven by both the Keebler acquisition as well as the Pringles acquisition.
And as you look at the growth strategy for the company going forward we have 4 growth platforms.
One is to continue to grow our breakfast business around cereal.
The second is to continue with our snacks business.
The third is to grow our Frozen Foods business here in North America.
And the fourth one is to continue to expand our emerging market platform.
As you think about our growth priorities going forward clearly snacks is an important growth priority for us and we'll continue to expand that over time.
And that may intersect also that emerging market growth objective as well.
So we'd expect us to continue to grow our snacks business.
However I wouldn't see this as an alternative.
We have to grow cereal or snacks.
I think it's an add strategy we can do both.
Clearly it's not the right thing to do to only invest disproportionally in one versus the other.
We already spent a lot of money in brand building in cereal.
In fact the reason the company has a high percentage of sales in brand building is because the cereal category is one of the most brand building intensive categories in the food industry.
So there's a lot of a brand building investment already behind cereal.
And the key there is to sustain that investment that and to continue to improve the quality of ideas and execution and bring those foods increasingly on trend with what consumers are looking for.
On snacks we have an opportunity to keep growing that business over time.
I'm excited by our growth in snacks particularly since Pringles acquisition which has truly ignited the international snack growth opportunity that we have as a company.
And that question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John I wanted to touch on North America and you reported a negative price mix there for the segment in Q3 and I think appreciatively negative.
And just on your history that's pretty unusual.
So just wondering if maybe you can elaborate on that in terms of is there anything one-time in there or any sub-segment driving that impact? Or even if it's just -- we should consider that going forward as sustainable? There's a little bit of business mix in there.
So for example wholesome snacks is down.
That has an impact on our mix of performance.
John also commented on within the North America Other segment which includes Canada and Frozen Foods some cost to launch new product and there was a little bit of channel mix in there as well.
And then we also talked about the effectiveness or efficiency of trade investment John talked briefly about merchandising.
So those are the items that are impacting us specifically in this quarter John.
I think over time we would not like to see negative price mix in the North American segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is more of a temporary issue then? I think it has more to do with the timing of some innovation launches in some of our products.
And also just as Ron said some business mix.
If you're looking at each individual business you wouldn't necessarily get the same pattern as if you look at a consolidated segment.
Okay everyone thanks for joining us today.
We appreciate it.
We'll be around the next couple of days for any follow-ups.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a nice day.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2014 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations for Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference call.
Thanks Gary and good morning and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our full year and fourth quarter 2014 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant Chairman and CEO; and Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
And as you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday February 16.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon.
And thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we announced results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Comparable full year sales were at the lower end of our guidance range.
Our results for full year comparable operating profit was slightly lower than we had anticipated primarily due to the decline in sales.
And our results for full year comparable earnings per share were in line with our expectations but were also at the low end of the range.
Project K is on track and we've delivered savings in line with our guidance for 2014.
The global business services initiative is going well and we've begun to reduce capacity in some regions and add capacity in others.
Results from our labor strategy intend to drive a more competitive sustainable cost structure have been mixed.
We've seen good results in Europe and Australia although we still have work to do in the U.S.
As you know Project K will provide us with a considerable amount of financial flexibility and we are continuing our investment in 2015.
We're at an important point as we enter 2015.
After a disappointing 2014 we are building a platform for growth over the coming year.
We will continue to execute Project K.
We are investing in our business and we expect to stabilize our top line in 2015.
In providing guidance for 2015 we recognize the critical task of returning the company to sustainable top line growth.
We expect full year comparable net sales to be approximately flat a significant improvement from the trends we saw in 2014.
We were pleased with our performance in much of the international business in 2014.
And our expectations are that the positive sales trends will continue in 2015.
However we do have more work to do in the U.S.
particularly in the cereal and snack businesses.
Ron will provide more detail regarding our guidance for 2015 in a few minutes.
As we look to the long-term health of the business it is critically important that we set realistic financial goals.
Please turn to Slide 4 and a discussion of our long-term targets.
We are changing our target for long-term comparable revenue growth to a low single-digit rate.
Our target for comparable operating profit growth remains at a mid-single-digit rate and our target for currency-neutral comparable EPS growth remains at a high single-digit rate.
One of the key drivers of success is targeting realistic goals which can be achieved over the long-term.
The businesses in the developed categories in which we compete are expected to grow at a low single-digit rate over the long-term.
And while our cereal and snack businesses in developing and emerging regions will grow faster we think that low single-digit top line growth for the total business is a realistic and achievable goal.
And 2015 will be a step in the right direction.
Results will improve from those we saw in previous periods and we will build a platform from which we can grow in the years to come.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and a discussion regarding the areas of investment.
As we've discussed with you over the last couple of quarters our current investment as part of Project K will be centered on the 3 main areas over the past purchase: Desire Decide and Delight.
First of all we support our brands with great brand building ideas that generate the Desire for our products.
The way in which we engage with consumers has continued to evolve and our investment takes various forms including digital media consumer promotions such as inserts and traditional advertising.
As you know we currently spend a high percentage of sales on brand building.
And while we're increasing our investment in brand building we are as focused on optimizing the impact of this investment as we are on increasing the amount of the investment.
Next is the Decide phase where we bring it all to life in store.
We're investing in sales capabilities.
We have invested in both the cereal and snack sales forces in the U.S.
and have always started [ph] to see better execution and results in store and have also started to invest in the 3 international regions including investment in regional sales Centers of Excellence designed to share best practices.
And finally is the Delight phase.
We Delight consumers with great food.
Consumer trends in health and wellness and in weight management are evolving.
And we must appeal to those trends with foods that address the needs of consumers and that also taste great.
We've been doing a lot of work on our foods around the world including the recent launch of Mueslis and granolas and the reformulation of many of our existing foods.
Specifically we've launched new Special K bars with improved food and packaging.
We have new Kashi cereals and we're converting the GOLEAN brand to be GMO-free the heart-to-heart brand to organic.
And we're also promoting the versatility of our foods.
So to sum up.
Much of this activity is intended to address the challenges that we faced in developed businesses around the world in the last year or so.
I mean some of these activity has started and it's early in the year but we're starting to see a response and we're optimistic that it will provide a base for future sales growth.
And now I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of the financial results for the quarter and full year.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Slide 6 shows the financial results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Comparable net sales for the full year decreased by 2%.
We had better performance in some of our international businesses particularly in the second half of the year.
But we experienced declines in our developed cereal businesses and the U.S.
Snacks business.
We are executing initiatives in these businesses including the introduction of new foods and investment in marketing as John mentioned to improve performance.
The recorded quarterly operating loss was $422 million which included a significant non-cash mark-to-market adjustment of $822 million.
This was primarily driven by the impact the changes in interest rates had on pension plan liabilities.
Comparable operating profit decreased by 0.1% in the fourth quarter.
Operating profit declined by 3.9% for the full year more than we expected as a result of lower production volume and higher distribution costs.
Cost management actions and lower incentive compensation and overhead contributed positively to fourth quarter and full year performance.
As John mentioned investment in brand building is significant and overall brand building for the year remained unchanged as a percentage of sales in 2014.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs mark-to-market adjustments to 53rd week Project K cost and other items that affect comparability were $0.84 per share on the fourth quarter and $3.81 per share for the full year in line with our expectations.
These results include $0.02 of currency headwind in the fourth quarter and $0.01 for the full year.
The 53rd week added $0.07 to earnings per share in the quarter.
Slide 7 shows the composition of the fourth quarter and full year sales growth.
For the full year reported sales decreased by 1.4% and comparable sales decreased by 2% with a similar decline in comparable net sales in the fourth quarter.
Comparable volume decreased by 2.6% for the full year and price mix increased by 0.6%.
Comparable volume stabilized in Europe and in Latin America in the fourth quarter.
The decline in volume was primarily the result of the developed cereal and snack businesses in the U.S.
The impact of currency translation reduced sales growth by 0.8 points for the full year and nearly 3% in the fourth quarter as many currencies weakened against the U.S.
dollar.
The 53rd week also contributed growth in the quarter and for the full year.
Slide 8 shows our comparable gross profit and gross margin for the quarter and the year.
Comparable gross margin decreased by 40 basis points for the full year and by 70 basis points in the fourth quarter.
And this decline was consistent with our latest guidance.
Lower production volume driven by our sales performance and higher distribution costs impacted margin.
Our savings from productivity were in line with expectations and savings from Project K also met expectations.
Slide 9 shows the comparable operating profit performance for each of the regions in the fourth quarter.
North America's comparable operating profit decreased by 7% largely as a result of lower sales posted in the quarter.
We continue to face challenges in our U.S.
cereal and snacks businesses.
And this was the primary driver of the decline in operating profit in the quarter.
In addition we also saw lower production volume and greater-than-anticipated distribution cost continue through the fourth quarter.
Investment in brand building as a percentage of sales was unchanged for the full year.
Comparable operating profit in Europe increased by 24% in the fourth quarter as a result of net deflation in cost of goods sold including strong productivity savings the timing of investment in brand building and cost discipline and overhead.
Comparable operating profit declined by 4% in Latin America in the fourth quarter.
Benefit from top line growth of more than 7% was more than offset by the timing of costs including a double-digit increase in investment in brand building to support second half product launches across the region.
Fourth quarter comparable operating profit increased by 50% in the Asia-Pacific region.
This was driven by solid productivity improvements and Project K savings in cost of goods sold as well as lower brand building primarily in Australia.
Slide 10 shows full year cash flow for 2014.
Cash flow was $1.2 billion which exceeded our expectations for the year.
This was driven by a benefit from year end U.S.
tax legislation and broad-based working capital improvements including our supplier financing initiative.
This initiative added more than $200 million to annual cash flow in 2014 and nearly offset approximately $250 million of incremental cash impact from Project K.
We expect additional benefit from this program in 2015 as we cascade it across the globe.
Capital spending for the year was $582 million at the low end of our range.
This includes the impact of some timing between 2014 and 2015 as well as lower costs for certain projects.
Share repurchases for the year were $690 million and we reduced our average share count by 1.4% as planned.
Dividends paid in 2014 were $680 million so total cash return to share owners was almost $1.4 billion.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 and our guidance for 2015.
As always this guidance excludes items that affect comparability so please see our notes for details.
We expected challenging macroeconomic environment in 2015.
And the devaluation of foreign currencies also presents both translational and transactional foreign currency headwinds.
So the guidance we're providing today is realistic and reflects the investment necessary to stabilize our business and return it to sustainable growth.
We expect that comparable net sales will be approximately flat for the year an improvement when compared to the performance we saw in 2014.
We expect net deflation in cost of goods sold.
Overall commodity and packaging costs are relatively neutral and we are approximately 70% covered for the year.
However we do anticipate inflation in wages benefits and logistics costs.
We expect the benefit from productivity to be 3% to 4% cost of goods in line with our long-term goals and we'll see incremental savings from Project K in 2015.
So if you add all of these factors together we expect to see net deflation for the year and slight gross margin expansion.
Comparable operating profit is estimated to be down between 2% and 4%.
This includes the impact of rebasing incentive compensation costs just between a 3- and 4-point headwind to operating profit growth slightly higher than the 2 to 3 points we communicated in our third quarter 10-Q.
Excluding this headwind comparable operating profit growth would be approximately flat to up slightly.
We expect brand building will increase at a rate faster than sales growth.
And we expect the currency-neutral comparable earnings will be in a range of flat to down 2% or $3.74 to $3.82 per share.
Of course the incentive compensation headwind also impacts our earnings per share in 2015 by between 3 and 4 points.
These earnings expectations exclude the impact of 2014's 53rd week and the impact of foreign currency translation which currently looks like it could be as much as $0.15 per share.
The tax rate is expected to be between 27% and 28% and interest expense is anticipated to be between $215 million and $225 million.
We expect that cash flow after capital spending will be approximately $1 billion.
This includes total incremental cash costs of $350 million from Project K.
So underlying cash flow is between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion.
We anticipate the total capital spending will be in the range of 4% to 5% of sales.
This includes approximately 1 point of sales for incremental capital for Project K.
It also includes investment to increase the capacity in our Pringles business and the completion of a new cereal plant in India.
As I said the total incremental after-tax cash cost for Project K will be approximately $350 million in 2015 including the additional point of sales for capital spending.
This makes 2015 the year with the most cash outflows over the life of Project K.
We expect to repurchase between 700 million and 750 million of shares in 2015.
Our current outlook for the first quarter earnings per share is that it will account for approximately one quarter of our total estimate for the full year on a comparable basis including the impact of currency.
Currently our expectations are that the impact of currency will be spread relatively evenly across the year.
Slide 12 shows our annual EPS log based on comparable earnings in 2014 of $3.81 per share.
As I mentioned currency translation could have an impact of as much as $0.15 per share although this does not include the impact of any significant currency devaluations we might see during the year such as in Venezuela.
Obviously this estimate will change and we plan to update you on the impact on future quarterly calls.
We expect a small amount of costs related to the integration of distributors and other items for Pringles in 2015.
And we estimate this cost of between $0.03 and $0.05 per share and expect that this will be the last year of these integration costs.
While it's early in the integration process at this time we expect that the impact on the investment in BiscoMisr in Egypt will not be material in 2015.
And finally we expect that incremental savings from Project K will be between $90 million to $100 million for the full year approximately 2/3 of which will come in cost of goods sold.
Pretax P&amp;L cost related to the project are estimated to be between $400 million and $450 million or approximately $0.80 to $0.90 per share in 2015 75% of which will be in cost of goods sold.
Obviously the timing and cost of the projects may change over time.
So we'll provide an update regarding Project K on the quarterly conference calls and at the upcoming CAGNY conference.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for more detail on the operating segments.
Thanks Ron.
Let's turn to next slide in detail regarding the Morning Foods business.
Comparable net sales declined by 7.7% in the fourth quarter and by 5.7% for the full year.
2014 was clearly a disappointing year for us in Morning Foods.
But we're taking the right actions to improve the performance of the business over time.
As I mentioned we have already started to invest the savings from Project K in our food and brand building and in in-store execution.
And we have stronger plans for 2015.
We expect that sales in the U.S.
cereal business will be down in 2015 but that trends will show a real improvement over those we saw in 2014.
The performance in the fourth quarter of 2014 was again primarily driven by the Kashi and Special K brands as it has been in recent quarters.
In addition we continue to face and pry innovation out of the market and this also had an impact in the quarter.
However partially offsetting these effects was better display and good performance from the Froot Loops brand which gained share as a result of strong end market support.
And we're also seeing good initial results from our Disney Frozen themed cereal which is exceeding our expectations.
We previously highlighted some of the programs and changes we're making to the Special K and Kashi brands.
And Paul Norman will discuss them in more detail in next week's CAGNY conference.
Let me just highlight a few things on Slide 15.
We have launched the See You at Breakfast campaign and the Open for Breakfast Digital program designed to help us connect directly with consumers.
We are investing in in-store capabilities in our U.S.
Morning Foods sales force.
We are investing in our food.
We are launching new Special K products such as gluten-free and protein.
We are continuing to evolve the Kashi GOLEAN brand certified GMO-free.
And we're making the Kashi heart-to-heart brand USDA organic.
We expect that these actions will have a positive impact on the performance of the Special K and Kashi brands and on the cereal business as a whole.
However our plan for investment is a long-term one and the levels content and effectiveness of the support will evolve and increase over time.
Consumption in our Pop-Tarts business declined in the quarter again due to comparisons to good performance last year.
However we gained share in the quarter and the full year and launched a new variety of peanut butter and jelly flavored Pop-Tarts during the quarter and we expect this to improve results in 2015.
As you can tell we've been focusing on improving the cereal business and we have a lot of activity planned for 2015 some of which is beginning now.
We've launched new products and redesigned food and packaging to better appeal to consumer trends.
We have continued our brand support while increasing our efforts to drive category relevance.
And we're driving more effectiveness from our investment not just the incremental work but the core investment as well.
Improvement will come over time and we're confident that we have the ideas and the brands necessary to stabilize the business and return it to growth.
Now let's turn to our U.S.
Snacks business on Slide 16.
Comparable net sales declined by 3.1% in the fourth quarter and by 2.4% for the full year.
As we saw last quarter and in other categories around the world the decline in sales was largely due to consumer trends away from weight management brands.
Sales in the cracker business was low in the quarter although sales and share were approximately unchanged for the full year.
We continue to see share gains in the 3 largest brands: Cheez-It Club and Town House in Q4.
However this good performance was offset by continued declines in the Special K Cracker Chip business due to the trends I referenced earlier.
As a result we are addressing this by relaunching Special K Cracker Chips with better taste profiles and improved packaging and with new positioning.
They started to arrive in stores late in December.
We saw a decline in share of the cookie category in the quarter largely as a result of continued declines in the Right Bites' 100-calorie pack business.
This was also the result of the trends in weight management and accounted for half of that total decline in share.
However we are migrating consumers to an expanded line of single-serve products which should help to reduce the impact of the decline in Right Bites in 2015.
The business was also impacted by lower distribution as Keebler special edition items exited the market.
Also in the cookie segment we saw continued growth from Chips Deluxe as a result of the new products co-branded with M&amp;M's.
These products were linked to basic growth and consumption and share for the brand in the quarter and for the full year.
Our consumption in the wholesome snack category declined in the quarter and we lost share.
However the trends in consumption improved.
Both Nutri-Grain and Rice Krispies Treats saw increased consumption and share in the fourth quarter and for the full year as a result of core growth and innovation.
Consumption of Rice Krispies Treats increased at a double-digit rate in the quarter.
And Kashi bars posted better performance later in the year due to the launch of new products.
The declines in the business continue to be driven by Special K bars and FiberPlus bars again as a result of the weight management issues I've mentioned.
In response we are launching new great-tasting Special K snack bars with new packaging and new food.
This activity ties into the initiatives we are launching in other categories and regions around the world and the new products also began to arrive in stores late in December.
The U.S.
Pringles business posted mid-single digit comparable net sales growth for the full year.
We posted flat comparable net sales in the fourth quarter due to the timing of promotions and brand building activities and the impact of the launch of Pringles Tortilla in the fourth quarter of 2013 which led to a high single-digit comparison.
We expect to see growth from this business in 2015 partially as a result of brand building support by core brand although we have difficult comparisons against the launch of Tortilla in the first half of the year.
Pringles as a global brand posted full year growth in all regions in 2014 and we're selling every can we can make around the world.
So as we expected our U.S.
Snacks business continued to face challenges in the fourth quarter.
As with the cereal business we anticipate that improvement will take time.
However we've identified the issues which was centered on our weight management brands and we're beginning the investment necessary to stabilize this business and return it to growth.
We're taking the actions now that will start to drive improvement in the future.
Let's turn to Slide 17 in the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Our Specialty Channels business posted a decline in comparable net sales of 1% in the fourth quarter.
Comparable net sales for the full year declined by 1.4%.
In the fourth quarter Kellogg gained share in the convenience channel in the wholesome snack cracker and salty snack categories.
Total net sales in the convenience business increased at a high single-digit rate in the quarter partially as a result of introduction of new products.
[indiscernible] in 2014 built on high single-digit growth in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Note that we reduced sales in low-margin custom products in Q4 and the full year in this segment.
We have great plans for U.S.
Specialty in 2015 and expect full year sales growth as a result.
Slide 18 shows the performance of the North America Other segment which saw an increase in comparable sales of 1.3% in the fourth quarter.
This segment includes the U.S.
Frozen Foods and Canadian businesses.
Comparable net sales in the Frozen Foods business declined slightly in the quarter.
Consumption of Eggo waffles is improving as we relaunched the Leggo My Eggo brand building program and launched Eggo gluten-free in a new variety of Thick &amp; Fluffy waffles.
We are also in the middle of launching Eggo handheld sandwiches.
These are an all family breakfast sandwich.
And although it's early in the process the initial results have been encouraging.
As a result of this launch and good performance from our Special K handheld sandwiches sales of our total sandwich business increased at a double-digit rate in the fourth quarter and we gained share.
Finally for the Frozen Foods business we have new Special K products scheduled to launch in April and we've also seen good results in our Morningstar Farms Roasted Garlic and Quinoa burger which is non-GMO and made with organic ingredients.
So we've got a lot of activity planned for this year and we expect this business to return to growth in 2015.
Beef [ph] sales increased at a mid-single-digit rate in the Canadian business in the fourth quarter.
Consumption growth in the Canadian soup [ph] category has improved significantly and our sales were approximately flat for the quarter.
Now let's turn to Slide 19 in our European business.
Comparable net sales in the region declined by 0.7% in the full year and by 1.2% in the fourth quarter.
We saw good growth in the snack and emerging market businesses and some continued challenges in the developed cereal markets.
We saw a double-digit net sales growth in emerging markets in the fourth quarter.
Specifically both the Med Middle Eastern business and the Russian business posted good results in the quarter and for the full year.
And you may have seen that we recently announced an investment in BiscoMisr the largest biscuit manufacturer in Egypt.
The biscuit category has been performing well in Egypt.
And this is a great investment that will add additional growth to our current Middle Eastern business and we're also excited about the potential for geographic expansion.
Chris Hood the president of our business in Kellogg in Europe will give you more detail regarding this next week at CAGNY.
As I mentioned in the fourth quarter the developed cereal business in Europe continued to face challenges similar to the ones we've seen in the U.S.
We ran brand building activities in the second half of 2014 and we've got more new products and brand building launching in the first quarter of 2015.
Mueslis like the one you can see pictured on the slide are just one example of the new foods we have going into market in various regions.
This is great tasting cereal in a resealable pouch and is an example of the kind of work we've been doing to improve our foods.
We're also running a popular promotion across the European region that allows consumers to receive a personalized spoon and we're launching new porridge in the U.K.
and Ireland.
New Special K advertising has recently gone on air in the U.K which addresses some of the recent health and wellness trends we've seen and we're launching a new variety of Krave Tresor across the region.
The Pringles business posted growth of 6.5% in the fourth quarter.
And as a result we posted the highest sales of any quarter in the history of the business.
We've also got new products launching including the Tortilla Pringles which have been very successful in U.S.
and we have more capacity coming online at mid-year.
So we achieved some success in the region in 2014 and we are optimistic that we can build on this as we enter 2015.
Slide 20 shows the performance of our Latin American business for the quarter and the year.
Comparable net sales growth was 7.2% in the fourth quarter and 3.9% for the full year.
This group performance was primarily the result of growth in Venezuela Mexico Mercosur and the broader Pringles business.
The cereal business in Latin America saw good growth in the fourth quarter although the competitive activity we mentioned last quarter continued in Mexico.
Children's cereal contributed to the growth of the business in the region as a result of good brand building programs and product introductions including new Zucaritas and Choco Krispies.
We are also addressing challenges in the adult segment with new commercial plans and the renovation of Special K and All-Bran 2 of our largest brands in the region.
In addition we have executed parent brand programs including the Breakfast for Better Days program which has been well received.
We're also launching other great products in the region in 2015 and are working to expand the overall distribution of our cereals.
The Pringles business continued to do well in Q4 posting mid-single-digit comparable sales growth.
We've seen a good initial reaction to new Tortilla Pringles and the execution of the launch has gone well.
And we've also recently launched Kellogg branded granola bars in the region.
So we ended the year well as a result of good activity and we have more planned for the coming months.
We expect to increase investment in brand building in 2015 and expect good growth in both comparable sales and comparable operating profit.
Now let's turn to Slide 21 in our Asia-Pacific business.
The Asia-Pacific segment posted a decline in comparable net sales of 1.2% in the fourth quarter and growth of 0.7% for the full year.
Strong results in Asia were offset by issues in the developed cereals business in Australia.
The Asian business posted double-digit net sales growth in the quarter with the Indian Japanese and Southeast Asian businesses all achieving double-digit sales growth.
The Southeast Asian business benefited from strong parent brand activation and the Japanese business saw continued good growth in the granola segment.
The Australian cereal business continue to face pressures similar to those seen in other developed businesses and results were also impacted by the year-over-year timing of promotional activity in the fourth quarter.
The Pringles business posted good sales growth due to good results in Australia and strong growth in much of Asia.
Finally the joint venture we have in China posted significant double-digit net sales growth as both cereal and Pringles businesses continued to contribute.
So we had a good fourth quarter and full year in Asia.
We have some challenges in the Australian cereal business.
We've already begun initiatives and have launched new products that will help address the situation.
We expect stronger growth across Asia Pacific in 2015.
Now let's look at Slide 22 and the summary.
Project K remains on track in 2014 and is beginning to provide significant flexibility to reinvest in the business.
In 2015 we will continue to invest across the path to purchase: Desire Decide Delight.
We will continue to invest in brand building and we have more programs launching now and across the balance of the year that will support our new foods and our existing products.
We are bringing it all to life in store with increased sales capabilities and are starting to see better execution and improvement in the results.
And we've made significant improvements to our food in order to meet the rapidly changing views of consumers regarding health and wellness.
This includes new foods and new packaging and the reformulation of many of our existing foods.
So 2015 is a rebuilding year for us.
It's an opportunity to invest in great food and ideas and to build a solid platform for long-term growth.
As I'm sure you can see our Kellogg employees are dedicated to returning the company to growth.
They are executing Project K they are delivering the savings they are developing the growth plans and they are implementing the plans.
It's thanks to them that in 2015 we can build a platform for future growth.
And with that I will open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> John I just want to ask you about the reduction in long-term sales guidance.
You've spoken pretty recently that you believe you can achieve that mid-single digit operating profit growth even in an environment where you're only generating 1% to 2% internal sales.
So that's consistent.
But does that guidance only hold true during this period of accelerated savings in Project K? And is it feasible to sustain that I guess 50 basis points of annual margin expansion beyond the conclusion of Project K when you'll be more reliant just on ongoing productivity? And secondly is there any implied change in your cereal category expectations that are baked into that 1% to 3%? So Matthew as you think about how economics work we're not relying upon Project K to drive bottom line results.
We've said before we're reinvesting Project K back into the business and that's our primary objective as we drive the business back to sustainable long-term growth.
So we've got to get this business back into growth.
If we can achieve 1% 2% growth 3% on the top line and we can offset inflation with underlying productivity programs that gives us gross margin expansion because of the leverage we get through our manufacturing facilities.
We can have modest investment back into our organization and into our brand building programs and still deliver mid single-digit operating profit growth.
So the way our economics work is we are quite a leveraged P&amp;L.
Small amounts of top line growth can lead to mid-single digit operating profit growth irrespective of Project K.
In terms of our views long-term on the business and the category growths we continue to believe that Europe and North America can grow low single digits and Asia-Pacific and Latin America can grow mid-single digit and even mid to high single digit in the case of Latin America.
And we'll talk more about this at CAGNY next week.
As I think about our developed cereal businesses we believe we can return our developed cereal business back to growth.
However we think being pragmatic that growth is pretty much at the low end of the low single-digit kind of range where those categories have historically outperformed over the last 5 10 years.
Again we'll show you some of that information at CAGNY next week.
So the key reason for us changing our guidance was to really remind investors that even though our average growth over last 10 years has been about 3.5% on the top line we really only need low single-digit growth to make the mid-single-digit operating profit algorithm work and then we generated a lot of extra cash that enables us to buy back shares and get to the high-single-digit EPS and pay a good dividend which can even get us to double-digit tiers all else being equal.
So that low single digit is obviously is our goal internally.
It's important to have those realistic goals.
We will aspire to do better but we believe we can absolutely achieve the low single-digit growth over time.
Research Division</strong> And I know one question but just to quickly follow-up on the reinvestment sort of initiative within Project K.
Clearly you're rebuilding this year.
But if the top line recovery doesn't materialize the way you expect would you be willing to change the way you think about that balance between reinvestment and bottom line going forward? Matthew again we don't need to get a lot of top line growth but we do need to get top line growth to make the economics of the business work.
It's very hard to save your way to prosperity.
I think ultimately we have to grow our way there.
We don't need a lot of growth but just even low single-digit growth makes a lot of difference to how our economics work.
And that's why we're absolutely focused on investing the money back into the business to ensure we get sustainable long-term low single-digit top line growth.
The next question comes from Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
John I just wanted to ask a kind of big picture question.
I wonder if if anything that -- how close is Project K getting to either the innovation process or the service and delivery process where maybe it affects the mindset of Kellogg in such a way that there's a maybe a trade-off on growth? I mean maybe it focuses certain segments of the organization on saving versus growth? I know for a long time Kellogg has great history of reinvesting cost savings and that people understand that savings leads to more investment.
Where now it seems like you're more dependent on that or that savings has become a bigger feature of the earnings growth.
Let's look at it that way and of the amount of investable dollars generated does this emphasis in cost savings is that part of the reason we're seeing your deceleration and such tough growth across the businesses? Jon I think Project K is instrumental in helping us return to growth.
There are parts in an organization that have to be absolutely focused on productivity and efficiency.
So we have our supply chain we have our global business services organization they are designed to ensure that we are being as efficient and effective as possible.
We have other parts of our organization sales and marketing where we still want them to be efficient obviously but it's much more about driving the top line.
And in fact if you look at what we've done with the Project K savings in 2015 we've invested it back into the capabilities that over time will enable us to grow our top line.
So we've invested back into our global category teams.
We've invested back into rebuilding the Kashi team.
We've invested back into our sales force in snacks and the Morning Foods in the U.S.
Those investments do not provide an immediate return.
Those investments provide returns over time because you have to invest in the people then they start to generate the ideas.
They start to bring these ideas to market.
So these are not short-term payback reinvestments.
But I can assure you that we have the conversation internally.
We have our organization focused on returning to long-term growth.
We have some parts of our organization absolutely focused on being more effective and efficient.
It's about doing both well.
The next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John I think if I heard you right you mentioned the cost structure performance.
I think you termed it as mixed.
I think with good work in Europe Australia but I guess more work needs to be done in the U.S.
I think just given that's such a strong piece of what's driving obviously the reinvestment this year I guess what -- if you could just get a little bit more detail on what were the issues in the U.S.
and I guess where maybe some of those future opportunities lie? So Andrew we are committed to -- I'm sure we have a very cost competitive manufacturing network around the world.
We've made some strong progress in markets like Australia and the U.K.
where we worked with our unions to ensure we have a more competitive labor situation and we've closed in excess capacity.
In the U.S.
we've closed in excess capacity.
We're still working with our unions to ensure that we have a cost competitive position as well.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So it's more timing in the process more than...
It's more where we are in the process.
I mean we are absolutely committed in the U.S.
to having a competitive cost structure.
We're not quite there yet.
There's a couple of different parts we can go down to get there.
But we're committed to working with our employees to try to get there.
The next question comes from Alex Sloane with Societe Generale.
Just a question.
Obviously you've talked a lot through the presentation about 2015 being a year that you're building a platform for growth in the years to come.
Are you still confident that you can do that with your current category mix or given the continued weakness in 2014 might you consider using your balance sheet in cash flow to perhaps build positions in adjacent categories where growth prospects might be better and you might be able to leverage the Kellogg's master brand? We are focused on returning our business to growth over time.
Our soup business has been weak largely in 4 developed markets.
One of those markets Canada is always [ph] seeing significantly better trends and the category has been more flat here recently.
The U.S.
is starting early days here in 2015 but seeing some better trends in the early part of '15.
And I think we still have some challenges in markets like the U.K.
and Australia.
So we are seeing improvement from where we were.
And we have confidence that we can get these businesses back to growth not high growth but back to modest -- at the low end of a low single-digit range type growth.
In terms of acquisitions you've seen us do the acquisition in Egypt of BiscoMisr to relatively modest sized business less than $100 million of sales.
But it's the leading biscuit business in Egypt and is a great example of the intersection of emerging markets and snacks in an area where we're very interested in continuing to build that business over time.
But I wouldn't say we're looking at transformational type acquisitions in terms of really major major category evolution type acquisitions that fundamentally changes the shape of the company.
However we continue to be very focused in growing our breakfast business and growing our snacks business around the world.
The next question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> John you talked about the consumer move away from weight management.
Is this being replaced in your view by a search for simple high-quality ingredients and perhaps satiety? And building on that is is the key to the future of the domestic business in particular and in particular your premium cereal brands like Special K and Kashi? Then renovation side you mentioned that you're doing renovations.
Are they perhaps working in ways that we can't see yet? And what gives you confidence that it will work? Thank you.
I think that Special K there's 2 issues there.
One is how we've been talking about the brand and the second is the delivery of some of the foods.
So in terms of how we've been talking about the brand we got ourselves into a 2-week challenge starting to get close to dieting the -- basically asking people to deprive themselves where they have less calories.
And really people want to have weight wellness.
They want to be eating great food because it's good for them.
And we actually have foods that deliver upon that promise.
And those foods will continue to be in the market and unchanged.
And we have other foods that we've renovated to be more in line with what consumers are looking for.
So for example we have renovated the Special K bar line here in early 2015 and we're seeing some initial good results.
So what gives me some confidence that we can move the food to be more on trend? One would be our experience in Australia where we launched the Special K Nourish cereal in 2014 that actually now has the Special K business back to growth in Australia although Special K is a smaller brand for us in that market than it is in many other markets.
So we've demonstrated that changing the foods -- so to your point it's simpler food it's clearly less refined if you like.
And that's what I think consumers are looking for as well as satiating so it can be a bit more of a complicated eat and maybe some protein in there as well.
And we have an opportunity to both change the communication in Special K.
So it's more about weight wellness as well as changing the foods that's more aligned with consumer trends.
Early days in the U.S.
but even here at the very beginning of 2015 we're seeing meaningfully better results from the Special K wholesome snacks bars and Special K Cracker Chips and even from some of our cereal programs.
The next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is kind of a follow-up to David's question.
But -- you talked about repositioning Special K.
It's a really important brand for you globally.
And I think consumers still think of it as a diet kind of a weight management brand.
And I look at the packaging that's still on the shelves and I see the big K.
And all I can think about is can't pinch an inch and the 2-week challenges.
It just -- it doesn't seem on shelf to be very different from how it's been in the past.
And I guess secondly what kind of feedback do you have from consumers that they can look at the brand differently? To me Special K means weight management.
Well and Robert I don't think we're trying to move Special K away from helping people look great and feel good about themselves and have a wonderful start to the day.
That's very much where we are.
I think we just -- in the spectrum of weight management moving from more dieting to weight wellness to -- rather than holding back on calories to having great food that really makes you feel good about yourself and it gets you off to a great start to the day.
So I would say it's more of a sort of repositioning is the right word relaunch of the brand perhaps with new food new packaging and new communication.
And I'm not sure what stores you've been in or when you're in the stores looking at the packaging but we have changed a lot of the packaging particularly on the snacks side here in early 2015.
But this is not a radical shift of the brand.
This is just improving the positioning of the brand so it's more on trend with what consumers are currently looking for.
Research Division</strong> I know you say it's early days but do you have any feedback yet from consumers as to whether in the U.S.
they are looking at it differently? I hesitate because the programs have only been in there for the beginning of '15.
We were down significantly in Special K last year and Special K sales are flat here in the first 4-week period but it's only a 4-week period.
So I don't want to draw too much from that.
The next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I'll turn over to the U.K.
market.
It seems as though the issues over there are quite different from what we're seeing in the U.S.
with the hard discounts [indiscernible] are really shaking things up with the regular grocery stores.
Can you talk a little bit about how that's shaping up and whether it's reasonable to expect improvement in sales particularly in cereals but also in snacks over in the U.K.
at present? Thanks Alexia.
Hard discounts are certainly putting the U.K.
retail trade environment under significant pressure.
We've seen some of those U.K.
retailers react to hard discounts with significant price rollbacks.
And we'll see how that plays out.
I think it's too early to conclude how that's going to impact the market.
We are struggling a little bit in that environment and we have pragmatic expectations for the U.K.
business given the environment the U.K.
is going through.
Having said that we continue to see good growth from Pringles in the U.K.
business.
And we have an opportunity I think to do better in our cereal and our cereal snacks business.
So we are looking to see improvements in the trends in the U.K.
But I think it remains a difficult market for us given as you say that unusual retailer backdrop.
The next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Simon a couple of questions.
So with the change in the long-term target on the top line John which I think is reasonable could you also kind of frame that like cereal versus snacks globally? Because you've underperformed in snacks and that's kind of been maybe more of the unexpected drag as opposed to cereal which is kind of more of a call it a developing market category issue? So I think Eric in general we would expect in developed markets for our snacks business to grow faster than our cereal business.
I think in developing and emerging markets they can both grow at very similar sorts of rates.
I would also agree with you that very disappointing result in 2014 was in our U.S.
Snacks business.
I think if you get beyond U.S.
Snacks and you look at snacks also around the world we've actually seen very strong growth in our international snacks business.
So I think our weakness in snacks is more focused in the U.S.
and quite frankly in the U.S.
where that weakness occurs more around the Special K brand in Special K Cracker Chips and in Special K bars and wholesome snacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of somewhat related but I'll admit that Canada haven't been tracking as much.
It sounded like that actually ended the year pretty solidly for you.
Did -- was that -- was that in any case in any way like an R&amp;D on Special K and recovery in cereal? Like is there something that you've learned about the positioning of the product there that's kind of helping that business? And how long did it take to kind of -- if that's true how long did it take to recover there? Eric we have a very strong team very strong business up in Canada.
When we did the parent brand activity earlier in 2014 the cereal and milk program we got tremendous response from Canadian retailers and from Canadian milk providers.
And that program really made a meaningful difference in Canada whereas it did not have the impact we were hoping it to have in markets like the U.S.
Since then the Canadian business has been performing better sort of more low single digits in the first part of the year it's been more flat in the back part of the year from a cereal category perspective and our share has been relatively stable within that category.
The Kashi brand is growing in Canada.
So there's one difference between the 2 markets right there.
But I think the experience in Canada does give us reinforced belief that we can return these businesses back to growth.
Of course Canada remains a very difficult market.
It's got a difficult retail environment.
So we're very pragmatic on expectations in that market but it's good to see the consumer respond to the programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Ron I can't let you get off the hook without asking a little bit about currency in Venezuela.
So I guess you're still getting like cash from the government and you're still at the 6 rate? We are in this outlook Eric.
Remember the valuation and translation of our sales and profits are based on facts and circumstances.
We know and I'm sure you saw the government of Venezuela came out with a communication around exchange rates.
The official rate remains our business remains a priority business or priority industry.
Remember we produce locally and most of the inputs that go into our food is brought in locally as well.
For those inputs to come from outside of the country we are getting access to dollars at the official rate as well.
We will obviously provide disclosures within our 10-K and have in our past 10-Qs in terms of the impact.
If we were to move from the official rate to a SICAD 1 which remember is about VEF 12 to the U.S.
dollar our latest outlook is that that could be approximately $0.18 of earnings per share impact.
That includes both the onetime write-down of the net assets as well as a translational impact if for example that change were to occur here in the first quarter.
I believe the SICAD 2 rate goes away based on what the government recently communicated.
I'm not sure where the secondary rate will go that they have communicated.
It looks like it could be around VEF 120 to the U.S.
dollar.
If that were the case and if we were to value to that level it would be about twice the impact of moving to SICAD 1.
The next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This feels like it's a bit of a cathartic rebase for next year but then we just get off the last question where you're saying "Well we may have sort of $0.18 $0.30 incremental downside of Venezuela deval." Why wait? Why not proactively like so many other companies just move your accounting there so we have this clean base and not a continued overhang? Look we're valuing the business according to the right accounting based on our facts and circumstances Jason.
I can't comment on other companies' facts and circumstances and why they may have moved off of the official rate.
But for us as I said we're still a priority industry and we're getting access to dollars at that official rate.
So we're valuing appropriately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to understand a bit more on the spend.
I suppose we'll get more detail.
I hope we get more detail on where you're putting all this money at CAGNY.
But one thing you cited is incentive compensation.
And it kind of surprises me given that you've taken so many efforts to shrink your employee population over the last year.
And obviously results are pretty disappointing.
So can you understand -- can you help me understand what's changing to drive so much higher incentive compensation on a go forward? Well I think Jason as you know we have a pay-for-performance orientation.
And unfortunately our performance in 2014 was not what we had hoped it to be.
And so we've paid out below the target rates in 2014.
In 2015 those incentive compensations just go back to the target.
This is an incentive compensation program for the entire company.
We have literally thousands of people within this incentive compensation program.
So it is just a reflection of really underperformance in 2014 and going back to target in '15.
The next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for me.
First on your sales growth guidance.
What is the foreign exchange impact to the top line? The foreign exchange impact is around 3 to 4 points David at the top line.
And frankly as you cascade down the profit and loss statement it's very comparable at operating profit earnings per share as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of a bigger picture question here guys.
Project K I think you said $90 million to $100 million of savings generated into 2015.
This is the first kind of really big year of savings from Project K.
Your productivity programs again I think you said in line with historics kind of 3% to 4%.
And against cost of goods sold that's something like $300 million or more.
So in total you guys would be producing savings of north of $400 million which is like $0.80 a share.
I think the management comp number 3% to 4% that's like $0.15.
I guess I want to understand that when I put these numbers together it just feels like you should be in a much better environment from the internally generated savings than what your bottom line earnings are showing.
So where's all the money going if the $0.80 saving is right if management comps only $0.15 if sales are comparable year-on-year how much is brand building building up? And how much is SG&amp;A in total going up such that we're going to see a $0.20 decline in earnings year-on-year? Well David maybe I'll walk you through the guidance just to give you an understanding.
So our guidance is realistic and it does reflect improving trends including investments that are going back into our business around innovation investments into our food as well and investments into our commercial programs for example into brand building.
Of our sales it is estimated to be approximately flat.
I said we expected also slight net deflation in cost of goods sold which should give us a slight improvement in gross margin.
Keep in mind we are seeing inflation within cost of goods sold.
Our commodities as I commented are relatively neutral to down slightly.
We are seeing increases in our factory costs and wages and in benefits and in higher logistics cost as well.
Not so much around fuel.
We can see that fuel is declining.
This is more around carrier rates and the supply and demand impact on carriers.
We also have a little bit of transactional FX exposure that sits in cost of goods sold as well.
And then as I said our operating profit is down 2% to 4% but that includes a 3- to 4-point headwind associated with the incentive compensation.
We are investing in brand building.
We are also investing as we've discussed before in sales capability and other overhead to drive the growth of our business impact to sustainable growth.
Okay everybody I think that's about all we have time for.
We'll be around if you have follow-up questions during the rest of the day.
And thanks for joining us.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
Please limit yourself to one question during the Q&amp;A session.
Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Kellogg Company Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference.
Thanks Gary and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for a review of our first quarter 2015 results.
I'm joined here today by John Bryant Chairman and CEO; Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer; and Maria Fernanda Mejía President of Kellogg Latin America.
The press release and slides to support our remarks this morning are posted on our webpage at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you are aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Tuesday May 12.
The call will also be made available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
We're pleased to have announced today results for currency-neutral comparable net sales operating profit and earnings per share that were ahead of our expectations.
We saw good net sales growth in international business and improving trends in several of our developed market businesses in North America.
As you know we've invested in various revenue driving initiatives around the world and we've seen improving sales trends.
Specifically we posted strong double-digit net sales growth in Latin America in the quarter.
We posted low-single-digit net sales growth in Europe.
And Asia-Pacific region posted mid-single-digit net sales growth due to double-digit growth in the Asian business.
And we saw improving trends in our developed Cereal business in the U.S.
category trends improved and our Kellogg brands gained share.
As we mentioned at the CAGNY conference we'll be doing a lot of work over the last year on Project K our efficiency and effectiveness initiative.
We're on track to generate savings and to invest in the business to drive profitable net sales growth.
Specifically we're focused on three main areas of opportunity.
We're investing where the shoppers shop.
We're investing in our food.
And we're increasing our investment in the high-growth emerging markets.
Let's start with a discussion of in-store execution.
The first area of investment we're focused on is the warehouse sales force in the U.S.
We've made a significant investment in this area in 2014 and we're investing more in 2015.
Their focus is on selling promotions gaining share of the shelf maximizing distribution and increasing the speed to shelf for new products.
The second area of investment is the DSD sales team.
The benefits we get from this investment build over time and we've always seen improved in-store display activity in the channels serviced by DSD.
The third area of investment is in emerging markets where we've invested in our coverage of high-frequency stores in both Asia and Latin America.
We are pleased with the progress we've made so far.
We have more to do although we've already seen improved results.
Let's turn to slide five and the second area of focus increased investment in our food.
First of all we have started some broad initiatives in the U.S.
Cereal business this year including the Origins program which is similar to one that was successful in Europe.
This program includes new food and support which stresses the simplicity and goodness of the new products.
We've also got some great new snacks coming.
In the U.S.
we have renovated our Special K bars to include more visible ingredients and we are launching Special K Chewy Nut bars which include simple ingredients preferred by consumers.
We've launched a variety of new mueslis in a number of countries which are off to a good start and we have plans to launch granolas and mueslis in other parts of the world.
And very importantly we've also done a lot of work with our Kashi business in North America.
We have great brands in both Kashi and Bare Naked.
We have a dedicated team in California and they're making progress across three priorities.
First they're designing and launching a portfolio of innovative plant-based foods that deliver powerful uplifting health.
Second they are engaging with customers and partnering to develop new and exciting programs targeted at food-forward consumers.
And finally they are developing stronger marketing plans using more of a storytelling model rather than a traditional advertising model.
Finally for Project K let's turn to slide six and the investment we are making in the emerging markets.
We have a strong team across the international businesses.
Within these regions we have targeted various initiatives.
In Asia and Latin America we are focused on increasing our penetration of high-frequency stores.
We've driven strong sales growth in the Pringles business in emerging markets over the last three years and we've recently opened a new plant in Malaysia.
In addition we recently invested in a large biscuit manufacturer in Egypt and our joint venture in China continues to perform well.
These are all initiatives designed to increase our rates of profitable sales growth and return us to our long-term model.
It's early in the process but we're seeing good sales growth in our international regions and we're confident that we'll achieve additional growth as we execute these programs.
Now I'll turn it over to Ron.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Slide seven shows the financial results for the first quarter.
Reported net sales declined by 5% primarily due to international currency devaluations.
Currency-neutral comparable net sales decreased slightly.
We had good growth in all of our international regions and results improved in several developed businesses in North America.
This quarter's improving trends were the result of new product introductions and brand building initiatives in each of the regions and investments we've made with savings from Project K.
Reported quarterly operating profit was $384 million and included a charge for the capitalized portion of our pension mark-to-market at year-end 2014 as well as Project K costs in the first quarter.
Currency-neutral comparable operating profit decreased by 1.9% in the quarter better than our expectations.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs mark-to-market adjustments Project K costs and other items that affect comparability were $0.98 per share in the first quarter again ahead of our expectations.
These results include $0.06 of currency headwind in the quarter so currency-neutral comparable earnings increased by 3% to $1.04 per share including a lower-than-planned tax rate resulting from some discrete items.
So our results in the first quarter were ahead of our expectations and were in line with our guidance for the full-year.
Slide eight shows the composition of the first quarter sales growth.
Currency-neutral comparable revenues for the first quarter declined by 0.3% reflecting an overall improvement in trends.
Comparable volume decreased by 0.7% in the quarter.
We saw volume growth across our international regions driven by both Cereal and Snacks offset by results in our North America business.
Price and mix increased by 0.4% and the impact of currency translation decreased sales growth by 4.7% in the quarter as many currencies depreciated against the U.S.
dollar.
Slide nine shows our currency-neutral comparable gross profit and gross margin for the first quarter.
Quarterly gross margin remained unchanged at 37.9% which was broadly in line with our expectations.
Productivity improvements and savings from Project K supply chain initiatives offset inflation and factory distribution costs and investments in our food.
As expected commodity and packaging costs were net deflationary and we are currently approximately 85% covered.
Let's turn to slide 10 which shows the currency-neutral comparable operating profit performance for each of the regions in the first quarter.
North America's operating profit decreased by 8%; this was primarily driven by lower sales and investment in our U.S.
sales force as well as re-establishing our Kashi business in California.
Europe's operating profit increased by 13% in the first quarter driven by the region's sales growth and net deflation in cost of goods sold including savings from Project K.
Operating profit increased by 5% in Latin America in the quarter.
Strong sales growth included increases in volume and price actions to offset inflation.
In addition we invested in brand-building activities to support new product launches and drive market penetration.
Operating profit decreased by 3% in the Asia-Pacific region.
While we had solid sales growth in the quarter we are investing in capabilities and brand building for growth in our emerging and developing markets within the region.
Slide 11 shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Our results for cash flow were in line with our plan and we continue to expect approximately $1 billion of cash flow for the full-year although currency has become more of a headwind to our outlook for both earnings and cash flow.
Operating cash flow after capital expenditure was $12 million which was driven primarily by the timing of an interest payment and an increase in cash costs in the first quarter associated with Project K.
In fact those two items and the impact from foreign currency translation accounted for much of the decline.
Capital spending for the quarter was $83 million and we are on track with investments for the year.
Share repurchases in the first quarter were $285 million and we reduced our average share count by 1.4%.
And dividends paid in the quarter were $174 million.
So total cash returned to shareowners was more than $450 million.
Now if you'll turn to slide 12 you'll see that our guidance for 2015 has not changed.
As always sales operating profit and earnings per share guidance is currency-neutral comparable excludes the items that affect comparability as detailed in our notes.
As we told you last quarter this guidance includes realistic assumptions regarding the competitive environment and the growth of our businesses in developed markets in 2015.
We continue to expect that net sales will be approximately flat for the year.
We also continue to expect some net deflation in cost of goods sold and slight improvement in gross margin.
We are approximately 85% covered for the year on commodity and packaging costs and productivity savings should be between 3% and 4% of cost of goods sold in line with our long-term goals.
And in addition to this we expect to see incremental savings from Project K.
We expect that operating profit will be down between 2% and 4%.
Remember this includes a negative three point to four point impact from the annual rebasing of incentive compensation costs.
And we continue to expect that brand building will increase the rate faster than sales.
We're also maintaining our guidance for currency neutral comparable earnings per share of $3.74 to $3.82 or a range between flat and down 2%.
The expectations for sales operating profit and earnings per share exclude the impact of last year's 53rd week and the impact of foreign currency translation.
Our original expectations for the impact of currency translation was $0.15 per share but we now estimate the impact could be as much as $0.24 per share.
We still expect the tax rate to be between 27% and 28%.
And interest expense is expected to be between $215 million and $225 million.
Cash flow after capital spending should be approximately $1 billion which includes total incremental cash costs of $350 million for Project K.
This also includes the incremental capital expenditure required by the project.
So cash flow for the full year excluding Project K should be between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion.
We continue to expect that total capital spending will be in the range between 4% and 5% of sales including approximately one point of sales for incremental capital related to Project K.
And we still expect that we will repurchase between $700 million and $750 million of shares during the year.
Slide 13 shows our full year EPS walk.
Remember that this outlook could be affected by any significant currency devaluations that occurred during the year such as in Venezuela.
Costs associated with the integration of Pringles and the recent acquisition in Egypt are expected to be between $0.04 and $0.06 per share and we expect that incremental savings from Project K will be between $90 million to $100 million for the full year approximately two-thirds of which will come from cost of goods sold.
As we mentioned last quarter pre-tax P&amp;L costs related to the project are estimated to be between $400 million and $450 million or approximately $0.80 to $0.90 per share for the year approximately 75% of which will be in cost of goods sold.
And our current outlook for second quarter earnings per share is that they will account for approximately one-quarter of our estimate for the full year.
Currency impact we expect in the second quarter is also approximately one-quarter of our estimate for the full year.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Ron.
And now let's turn to slide 14 and the U.S.
Morning Foods business.
First of all I'd like to welcome Craig Bahner to the role of President of Morning Foods.
Craig joins us most recently from Wendy's.
Before that he worked for a number of years at P&amp;G and we look forward to having him as an important part of the team.
I'd also like to congratulate Paul Norman on being named President of Kellogg North America.
I'm sure you'll all agree that there is no one better than Paul for this role.
Now onto the Morning Foods business where comparable net sales declined by 2.9% in the quarter.
This represents an improvement from the performance we saw last year.
Category trends improved and Kellogg brands gained 30 basis points cereal category share in the quarter.
We saw a mid-single-digit increase in in-store displays and we activated strong commercial plans.
In addition our innovation launches performed well in the quarter.
Raisin Bran Cranberry Special K Protein and the Disney Frozen themed Cereal are all doing well.
And we had approximately 44% share of innovation in the quarter.
In addition we have the Avengers themed cereal and support coming in the second quarter.
So overall we were pleased with the results in the Morning Foods business in the first quarter.
The team has done a great job trends generally improved and we started to see the benefit where we have invested.
As we discussed with you at the CAGNY conference improvement will be a process but we're encouraged by the results so far this year and expect gradual progress as we move through 2015 and into 2016.
Let's turn to slide 15 and our U.S.
Snacks business.
Comparable net sales declined by 1.1% in the first quarter.
The decline in sales in the cracker category was led by the Special K Cracker Chip business.
We have redesigned the food and the packaging and the consumer communication begins in earnest in the second quarter.
Velocity has improved but we continue to be affected by prior distribution losses.
Sales in the cookie business declined in the quarter due in part to the performance in our Right Bites 100-Calorie Packs.
This was a result of trends in weight management foods and a majority of our 2015 cookie innovation launches at mid-year.
Sales in the wholesome snack business also declined in the quarter; however we saw good performance from Rice Krispies Treats.
Consumption of Special K bars declined due to distribution losses but velocity improved.
And the new bars that we introduced in December of last year got off to a good start.
And we have more new products coming in the category.
The Pringles brand posted flat net sales in Q1 against high-single-digit comparisons last year due to the launch of Pringles Tortillas.
So we continue to face some challenges in our U.S.
Snacks business but we're seeing some success and we've already made changes and we have some more to come.
As I said before improvement will take some time and will be progressive.
However we're focusing our investment to drive improvement in 2015 and into 2016.
Let's turn to slide 16 and the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Net sales in the Specialty Channels business declined by 2.5% in the quarter.
The primary cause of the decline was a distributor in the convenience channel who decreased levels of inventory significantly during the period; however we do see strong underlying consumption.
In the convenience channel we increased share in the cracker wholesome snack cookie and salty snack categories in the quarter.
Consumption of Pringles grew at a strong double-digit rate.
The team expects full year net sales and operating profit growth in 2015 with the performance in the first quarter due primarily to the timing of sales.
Slide 17 shows the performance of the North America Other segment which now includes the U.S.
Frozen Foods Kashi and Canadian businesses.
Net sales declined by 6.1% in the first quarter.
We saw good consumption in the Frozen Foods business in the quarter although net sales declined due in part to supply disruptions from last year's limited recall of our MorningStar Farms product.
This was related to an industry-wide issue with a supplier of cumin.
It is worth noting that we are back in supply now specifically the Eggo franchise posted consumption growth higher rates of penetration and share gains in the quarter.
Now turning to the Kashi business.
Net sales declined as velocities stabilized but were impacted by last year's distribution losses.
We plan to rebuild distribution over time with new innovation.
And finally net sales for the Canadian business also declined in the first quarter this was largely due to the timing and phasing of activity.
Now let's turn to slide 18 and our European business.
Comparable net sales in the region increased by 1% in the quarter due to double-digit growth in the Pringles business and good growth in Northern Europe and Russia.
Sales in the Cereal business declined in the quarter due to the timing of promotions and weakness in the Special K brand although results were in line with our expectations.
As is the case in many parts of the world we have a lot planned for the Special K brand in the region in the next few months.
We have newly-renovated food going into the market in April and new packaging and support schedule for the summer.
We recently launched muesli in Germany.
We brought (22:08) distribution in the first quarter and early results have been good and the Coco Pops products that we launched recently in the U.K.
is also off to a good start.
As I mentioned we saw double-digit net sales growth in Pringles in the quarter which was driven by good promotions and new flavors and we're launching Tortillas Pringles in the second quarter.
So the European business had a good quarter exceeding our expectations.
We have a range of activity planned for both Cereal and Snack businesses over the remainder the year and we expect continued good results from the region as a result.
Now I'll turn it over to María Fernanda for a discussion of our Latin American business.
Kellogg Co.</strong> Thanks John and good morning everyone.
I'm excited to be here today to talk about the great business we have in Latin America and to give you some insights as to why we're so optimistic regarding our potential.
I'll begin with an overview of the region then I'll share our operating model and strategy and I'll close with highlights of how we're bringing all the elements of the strategy together.
So let's start with slide 21 and some background about our region and the opportunities we have.
As you can see there's a large consumer base 40% of whom are under the age of 20 and the population is urbanizing with a rising middle-class.
However despite this dynamic environment consumers in the region retain their tradition their sense of community and family and their optimism.
As you might imagine this changing environment presents some challenges but also some great opportunities.
Slide 22 shows the composition of Kellogg business in Latin America.
Our business is largely in Cereal although we have a good core wholesome snack business and the acquisition of the Pringles brand gave us a meaningfully-sized salty business as well.
We have a significant core business in Mexico which along with rest of Latin America performed well in the first quarter and we also have growing businesses in attractive areas of the region and in growing categories and segments in those areas.
Now let's turn to slide 23 and one of our competitive advantages our brands.
Around the region we have a stable of well-known global brands that consumers love.
The consumer base in our region appreciates quality products and Kellogg is one of the most trusted brands in Latin America.
Consumer awareness of our brands is high and our products have some of the highest category and segment shares in the region and the brands are expandable as we've seen with our success in the wholesome snack category.
We've also targeted geographic expansion with Pringles and the recent introduction of our Kellogg parent brand.
Now let's turn to slide 24.
As you can see we have more than 55% cereal category share across the region.
Our wholesome snack business holds approximately 24% share and is made up of snacks sold largely under our cereal brand name such as Special K Zucaritas All-Bran and now Kellogg.
And finally you can see that our salty snack business holds only a 1.3% share across the region although net sales have grown significantly since the acquisition of Pringles.
As a result we see great potential across all of our categories.
However despite the great positioning three years ago we identified some opportunities to expand the business even further.
These opportunities were unleashing the potential of the region growing in all segments of the Cereal business and in high-growth areas of the region expanding into high-frequency stores and better leveraging our supply chain.
So now let's look at slide 25 and the discussion regarding how we've addressed these opportunities.
We implemented a new regional multi-functional category organization and we reorganized our businesses into regional hubs which provided increased scale and improved speed to market.
We began developing our plan not only focused on our consumer but also on our shopper who can oftentimes be different than the consumer and the regional environment in which these shoppers were shopping.
And we elevated our engagement with our customers.
We have focused on increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our organization.
For example we are delivering pan-regional innovation and commercial program.
We're better leveraging total commercial investments to win with shoppers where they shop and we've moved from a manufacturing organization to a supply chain organization focused on optimizing asset utilization and improving gross margin.
As a result we're executing Project K.
We're reducing our cost structure and we're eliminating complexity in the portfolio and fueling our growth.
And we will continue to drive underlying productivity and improved profitability.
Also we've made great progress in building a strong organization.
These are all major undertakings and the entire team in Latin America has done an amazing job implementing these changes to our structure while remaining focused on generating profitable sales growth.
So how has all this played out in recent years? If you'll turn to slide 26 you'll see some of the recent successes we've had as a result of the changes we've made to our operating model and strategy.
The rate of net sales growth improved as we progress through 2014 and year-on-year net sales grew at a double-digit rate in the first quarter of 2015.
And importantly volume increased by more than 4% as a result of good innovation and strong in-market activity and we're confident we'll see good rates of net sales growth across the remainder of the year.
We've also seen the benefit of the work we've done in gross margin expansion in recent years we focused on our large businesses and have achieved margin expansion in both the Mexican and the pan-regional Cereal business.
Now let's turn to Slide 27 and more detail regarding our strategy in the region.
There are five interrelated parts.
First as I mentioned we have a large and growing Cereal business in the region and continuing to drive category growth is one of our main priorities.
We're also focused on the snack categories and on driving increased consumption across the portfolio.
Next while our program of innovation and renovation has been successful we can always improve.
Speed to market is critical and we've made good progress streamlining the process.
We're also committed to winning where people shop and we're increasingly focused on high-frequency stores.
This is a channel where between 50% and 70% of retail sales in the traditional food basket are made where the majority of our shoppers shop and where affordable products are a requirement.
We're executing Project K in the region this means optimizing our supply chain network developing a footprint that will serve our future growth and generating the flexibility to increase investment in the business.
And finally we're constantly striving to develop our people improve their performance and provide them with exciting opportunities.
We've taken big strides in this area and have what I believe is a world-class team dedicated to constant improvement.
Now let me give you more detail on our investment in pan-regional innovation.
How we're excelling at in-store execution and our work in high-frequency stores.
Let's start with innovation on slide 28.
We significantly increased the number of pan-regional introductions which has increased the efficiency of our investments.
We re-launched Choco Krispis in 2014 which drove an increase in volume and share in the Andean and Central American regions.
We restaged Special K as well and gained share in core countries of the region.
And we also launched a full line of muesli granola cereals and bars branded with the Kellogg's brand.
We've had some real successes with pan-regional innovation so far and we're really looking forward to continued progress.
Now let's turn to slide 29 and detail regarding the Pringles business in our region.
We've increased net sales in U.S.
dollars by more than 10% since the acquisition in 2012.
Growth in local currencies was significantly greater.
At the time we acquired Pringles we saw Latin America as one of the areas with the most opportunity for expansion.
As you can imagine we're attacking this growth potential as quickly as possible by increasing distribution and driving significant innovation.
Latin America has certainly been a success story for Pringles over the last few years and we expect continued strong growth in 2015 and beyond.
Now turning to slide 30.
Our efforts on high-frequency stores have been focused in three areas; optimizing our route to market to enhance our reach principally in mom-and-pop stores developing the right portfolio for this channel and getting the right visibility in these stores.
As you can see on the slide we've developed a range of inexpensive smaller-serve products which are available to our shoppers in high-frequency stores.
There are two million high-frequency stores in the region and we have a goal of increasing our coverage of these by approximately 50% this year.
Having said that we do have continued opportunities to increase the coverage even further in future years.
Slide 31 details the program design to improve the visibility of Kellogg product in high-frequency stores ensuring all our products are displayed visible and accessible to our shoppers.
The program includes an ideal store initiative which leverages stores' real estate to promote the Kellogg brand and build engagement with shoppers and store owners.
This program is a pan-regional initiative and sales at these stores have increased at a double-digit rate and they've gained share.
And our goal for 2015 is to have many more of these stores in place by the end of the year.
And on slide 32 you can see that we have more to come.
We have more innovation as I've mentioned including Kellogg parent brand launches in various parts of the region.
We're continuing to invest further in the expansion of high-frequency stores.
And finally we have significant commercial activations planned.
You can see on the slide that we're proud sponsors of the Copa América soccer tournament going on this summer in Chile.
We have full home-to-store support plan and expecting great results.
So let's turn to slide 33.
I'm sure you'll agree we have an exciting opportunity for the years ahead.
We've never been better positioned to grow given the dynamic categories where we participate with our leading brands.
A renewed strategy and focused initiatives all with the objective of driving long-term profitable growth and we focused on the organization.
And I'd like to end by thanking the Latin America team for their leadership and commitment to our collective success.
And now I'll turn it over back to John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks María Fernanda.
Now let's turn to slide 34 and our Asia-Pacific business.
The Asia-Pacific segment posted an increase in comparable net sales of 4% in the first quarter.
We posted double-digit growth in Asia as a result of double-digit growth in India Japan and South Korea.
In India we saw growth in our core brands and in new smaller-sized packs designed to make our products more affordable.
We have completed construction at our new plant in India and the facility has started production to service the increasing demand in the country.
Sales declined in the Australian business due to weakness in the Cereal and Snack businesses.
However we are launching a range of innovation including granola muesli gluten-free and on-the-go offerings.
The Pringles business posted good sales growth with results exceeding our expectations.
We ran a muesli promotion in Australia Southeast Asia and Taiwan which drove sales at a double-digit rate during the activation period.
So we had another good quarter in this region driven by strong growth in our Asian business.
As you might imagine we continue to expect growth from the region for 2015.
Please turn to the summary on page 35.
Our results for sales operating profit and earnings per share were all ahead of our expectations in the first quarter.
We saw sales growth in Europe Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
And we saw improving sales trends in our U.S.
Cereal business and our Kellogg brands gained share.
The Project K initiative continues to go well.
We are investing the savings in areas designed to drive profitable sales growth and we're starting to see the results.
Obviously our investment program is a process and the benefits will build over time.
Improvement in our results will also build and we know that there's no quick fix.
However we are very encouraged by some of the early signs of success we've already seen and by the plans we're making now for future periods.
Now I'd like to end as always by thanking our employees around the world.
It's all their hard work that is allowing us to build a foundation for growth in 2015 and beyond.
And with that I'll open it up to questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
At this time we will pause momentarily to assemble our roster.
The first question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> Happy Cinco de Mayo.
I guess my question has to do with kind of the Project K savings versus the advertising and promotional spending.
I don't remember you quantifying either so I'm kind of wondering if you can do that.
And it looked like in one of the slides I think it was slide 10 that the spending behind the brands was mostly in Latin America and Asia.
Is that right? And should that kind of broaden out as the year progresses? Eric it's Ron.
So in terms of the Project K savings recall for the year I said that the savings were in the range of $90 million to $100 million.
And that's relatively pro rata across the course of the year a little bit lighter in the first quarter.
In terms of our investment in brand building you know we have good investment levels behind our business across the globe.
We didn't invest – or we did invest a little bit heavier in our international regions.
Our sales or brand building as a percent to sales were comparable to last year.
So good pressure in the business.
As we move through the second and third quarter as well we have innovation coming out and our brand building levels will be up year-over-year to support the commercial programs and the innovation.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Eric if I could just add on to that as well.
As we think about reinvesting the Project K savings we are reinvesting the savings in a number of areas in our business.
Some of the money is going into getting food that's even more on trend with changing consumer needs.
Some is going into our sales capabilities both in the U.S.
as you've seen with the warehouse and DSD system but also with the sales force that supports high-frequency stores in a number of the emerging markets.
Quite frankly as we look at brand building we have a high level of brand building as a company.
We spend about twice the amount of advertising as the average food company.
So we feel like we have fuel in the engine there.
We believe we're going to get the best return by investing more to enable us to get growth through additional capabilities such as sales and by making sure we have food that's absolutely on trend with changing consumers' needs.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for that.
I'll pass it on.
The next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ken.
Your main competitor in U.S.
cookies and crackers they talked recently about large customer reverting to more of an EDLP strategy which is leading to fewer I guess display opportunities for the category.
Is that something that you guys have experienced as well? I mean I'm looking at your U.S.
Snacks numbers.
They seem okay but I'm just curious for what your thoughts are there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We do see customers from time to time changing their merchandising plans.
I think we had a large customer that probably did somewhat adversely impact us in that area as well.
And obviously we worked with that customer to ensure that jointly we're building our categories over time.
And so I think we'll have better programs as we go forward.
And the thing about our U.S.
Snacks business we're essentially on plan coming through the first quarter.
The first quarter is our toughest comp for our U.S.
Snacks business.
A lot of innovation in Snacks this year was actually in the middle of the year so we do expect our sales trend to improve as we go through the year.
Thank you.
And then if I can ask another quick one.
John you asked about or you talked rather about the inventory issue with the c-store customer.
We've been seeing some signs of convenience stores maybe clearing out a little bit of shelf space for more I guess health and wellness oriented products or perceived to be health and wellness.
Is this what you think partially drove the de-load because that will reduce your shelf space or was it more just a normal course of business type of reduction that happens from time to time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Ken I don't think it's adversely impacted our shelf space.
It was more a case of retail holding more inventory than they thought appropriate and it came out significantly here in the first quarter.
Great.
Thanks very much John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Andrew.
Inc.</span></strong> John you talked about the cereal category improving.
I'm trying to get a sense of what you see driving that in your expectations for the category overall for this year.
And then in Cereal your share of innovation you marked at 44% and your displays were up mid-single-digits.
I'm trying to get a sense of how those metrics compare to maybe what they might have been let's say over the course of 2014? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Andrew.
On the category we are seeing the trends improved.
We're down around 2% to 3% in the first quarter which is better than last year so it's very dangerous to predict what a category is going to do but I'd say it's going to be down in that low-single-digit sort of range for the year.
What we're seeing in our business is stronger performance.
Seven of our 10 largest brands under the Kellogg brand gained share in the quarter and the Kellogg brand itself gained about 30 basis points of share.
If you look at why some of our business is doing better Froot Loops grew about 6% and that's being driven by some great advertising programs behind evening consumption et cetera.
The Raisin Bran business is up about 7%.
Rice Krispies is up 4%.
In case of Raisin Bran we have some innovation but also some very on-trend advertising as well.
We are seeing improved distribution and merchandising from reinvesting back into our U.S.
sales force.
Displays are up in Q1 last year.
Quite frankly we were down in Q1 last year so part of it is the comp as well that's helping us there and 44% share of innovation is a sort of share of innovation that we'd like to see in our U.S.
Cereal business but not what we had necessarily last year so I think we are seeing some good performance within the Cereal business particularly across the legacy Kellogg brands.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much for that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I had two questions if I could.
I wanted to ask first from a bigger picture standpoint John in relation to improving sales trends and a stronger first quarter performance especially on the profit side what does that mean for Kellogg for the year? Is it that you can reinvest more heavily now? Are there areas that this gives you more flexibility to invest in? I'm just curious how to look at the year if the sales trends keep improving the way they are? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've had a good start to the year.
And as we said in the press release we beat our internal expectations in Q1.
It is one quarter in the year though so I think it's appropriate for us to say that we're still on track from a full-year perspective and so it would be too early for us to start thinking about reinvest or other alternatives.
So I think it's a good start for the whole year.
We have expectations of sales being relatively flat; we achieved that in the first quarter which is actually our toughest comp so we're feeling good about where we are.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just a question relation to Europe; a pretty strong profit performance certainly and Pringles obviously did well it sounds like.
I'm curious how the base Cereal business performed especially in the developed markets and then the emerging market piece of Europe how that performed as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if you look within Europe we did have good growth in Pringles as you said.
Cereal sales were down in the quarter though that's actually is an improving trend in line with our expectations so we're seeing some good progress there.
And if you look within Europe we actually saw some growth on a consolidated basis in Northern Europe France and Benelux U.K.
Ireland and Southern Europe down very slightly low-signal-digits in the quarter.
We had some good growth in the emerging markets particularly in Russia even though it's a tough environment we actually saw some good growth in Russia in the quarter as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from David Hayes with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Good morning all.
If I can just touch base on international.
There's two things actually just following up on that Pringles comment in Europe.
I'm just wondering whether you can talk about the capacity that came on stream or that did come on stream for Pringles in the first quarter and therefore whether some of that improved performance that double-digit performance is due to that capacity now being there and therefore effectively do you expect that to continue as a trend through the year? And then secondly if I can sorry just as María is there I just wonder if we can catch up on where we are with regulation in Mexico.
Clearly this time last year there was some negative impact with the effect of the shipping (45:42) tax.
I just wonder whether there is any more news flow or noises around whether that could be repeated again or elsewhere in the region if there's any risk of that happening.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
So I'll start with the Pringles question and then hand over to María Fernanda to talk about the regulatory environment in Latin America.
On Pringles we do have the benefit of our plant in Poland coming up last year.
So it's helping us supply the market this year.
And we're still essentially in a situation where we're selling every can we can make as a company.
We have a new plant in Malaysia coming up this year.
That will be a bit of a slower start for us because it's a totally new facility in Malaysia.
But we are looking to get some capacity out of it it might help drive our Asia-Pacific business.
On a global basis we grew Pringles around 7% 8% in Q1 which is similar to what we're seeing growth over the last couple of years.
So I think we're seeing very good ongoing trends and really we are just constrained by how quickly we can bring capacity on.
And María Fernanda do you want to talk about Mexico? Kellogg Co.</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks for the question David.
Regarding the Mexico tax first last year we believe the team did a really great job in predicting the impact of the Mexico tax through the good use of insights and analytics.
We did see an impact in volumes particularly in the first half of 2014 but through the implementation of very strong consumption building and category program we saw the elasticity improve through the back half of 2014 and certainly through the first quarter of 2015 where in Mexico we saw great volume recovery.
As far as what we're seeing in the region from a regulatory standpoint obviously we meet all government and regulatory requirements and we're constantly tracking and evolving – the requirements and the evolving consumer preferences.
In the region cereal a bowl of cereal with milk fruit still provides a very nutritious breakfast offering when we compare it to other local offerings in the marketplace.
So I think we should congratulate the Mexico team for a job well done in managing a challenging situation for us through the first half of 2014.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
John we've talked in the past about the snack bars Kashi and Special K businesses really being the principal drags on performance over the last I guess year or two.
And I guess listening to their prepared remarks this morning it didn't sound like you've yet got much benefit from those three areas really improving.
So I guess A is that correct? And B I know you've got a lot of prescriptive actions in place to try to turn those.
Should we expect may be to see some movement on that as we move through the balance of this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bryan.
Great question.
So let me just clarify one thing on Kashi the Kashi wholesome snack bars actually grew in the first quarter which is a sign of the strength of the brand particularly when you have great food going up against it.
On the Special K business if you look at some of the softness in consumption we've had in our U.S.
Snacks business it does largely come down to Special K.
But there's some good news in there.
So if we look within wholesome snacks Special K bars is a primary source of weakness within that category for us.
We've come out with new Special K bars here at the beginning of the year.
We've lost some distribution and some retailers but we've maintained the distribution the velocity is up strong which would suggest that we've got good food that's delivering upon the promise of Special K.
And we have more innovation coming in behind Special K in the middle of the year.
If you come to crackers similar story.
We've renovated the Special K Cracker Chip offering.
We've lost some distribution on those products but where we've maintained the distribution the velocity is up strongly again which also suggests we have some great food out there.
So I think what we're seeing is a transition the good news is where the food's in play we're seeing good velocities.
Now our job is to rebuild the distributions based on having great food in the marketplace.
Thanks John.
And just fair to say that the upside in the quarter wasn't really a function of a contribution from those actions yet that's still something you're expecting further out in the future? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's fair.
We're essentially on plan in our U.S.
Snacks business in the first quarter.
I think the upside had more to do with some great performances in the international businesses and seeing better trends come out of our U.S.
Cereal business.
Okay great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from David Driscoll with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just wanted to follow up on your U.S.
Snack comments John.
I think you said to another question that you expected this to sequentially improve.
However when we look at the U.S.
Nielsen data what we're seeing though would be the opposite.
We're seeing snack information from Nielsen kind of weakening materially.
Cookies look double-digit negatives on both volumes and sales and certainly issues on the snack bars.
So is second quarter actually a – you really expect a sequential improvement in U.S.
Snacks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David there's a couple of factors driving that.
If you look at the consumption data versus the shipment data there's two reasons for differences there in the first quarter.
One has to do with strong growth in the non-measured channel right.
I realize that Nielsen covers most of the business but there are some large customers and meaningful channels that are not inside that data as we're seeing some very good growth in those businesses.
Secondly a lot of what's happening is driven by the phasing of innovation year on year.
So last year innovation went out in the first quarter this year innovation for Snacks is much more mid-year.
And what's happening there is we'll see that innovation go in Q2 that will give us more of a consumption drive and a little bit more of a shipment drive too as we fill the pipelines for that innovation.
Last year innovation went in in the first quarter which means that supplies usually ships in Q4 and so we actually burn through inventory in Q1.
We get good consumption coming from behind that innovation in Q1 last year.
So a little bit of a timing issue within the year that's driving what you're seeing there.
We do expect better results I would caution on some of the April data because the shift of Easter can distort one week versus another but we do expect to see improving consumption trends in our Snacks business over time Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for clearing that up.
Just one other thing for me Project K the savings plan there versus kind of what we're seeing at ZBB savings from the Heinz and Kraft.
John how do you and your team benchmark Kellogg? And have you gone far enough to reduce costs with the Project K plan? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So historically when we've benchmarked the company to our peers we've actually come with a little bit leaner quite frankly than a lot of our peer group.
Clearly as we have a new model with the 3G model and Kraft and Heinz we're going to watch that closely and learn and reapply what works.
But we're not going to blindly follow those actions.
As you think about our business we're doing Project K reinvesting for growth.
As we talked about at CAGNY we only need low-single-digit growth to drive mid-single digit operating profit and we believe that's the right way to sustainably grow and drive these businesses over time.
So to answer your question we continue to look to learn but we're going to drive Project K for now and then see if more ideas come to us based upon what we see in the marketplace.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you John.
I'll pass it along.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
María just wanted to come back to the growth opportunity in Latin America given that I guess the sales growth we've seen has been largely price-based.
I think the last year where Kellogg really had steady volume growth maybe five or six years ago.
So what's been holding back consumption there? And is there a target that you're maybe looking at in terms of what normalized volume growth could be as Pringles ramps up? And then with the timing when you think that can be achieved? Thank you.
Kellogg Co.</span></strong> Thanks John.
It's a great question.
As we shared with you earlier in the presentation we've made some pretty important structural changes to better address the growth opportunities in Latin America and they're quite simple.
First is high-frequently stores.
Traditionally we've had pantry size boxes of cereal going through most of our direct accounts.
50% to 70% of all food sales go through HFS as I mentioned earlier only 20% of cereal sales and for us less than 20% of our snacks.
So that is the biggest opportunity.
To be able to drive volume growth John in HFS we need to have the right size the right pack at the right affordable price and that's what we've now put in through the core of our cereal brands to address high-frequency stores.
And as we ramp-up Pringles having Pringles also in affordable sizes for high-frequency stores is going to be absolutely critical.
So your view is more of a price-point issue as opposed to just changing consumer consumption trends over the years? Kellogg Co.</span></strong> I think so.
I think it's making sure that our products are affordable and accessible where consumers and shoppers shop every day in our region.
Thanks María.
The next question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
First to follow up on gross margins.
Using that guidance on a year-over-year basis currency-neutral it looks like you'd be expecting gross margins to be flat to up for the remainder of the year.
If that is about right and I think you said the Project K savings timings would only be a little bit more favorable in the last three quarters is the rest of that input cost easing? Any color on that would be helpful.
Yeah so you're right.
Our gross margins were flat in the first quarter and we have said guidance for the full year is that our gross margin will be up slightly.
Project K was a little bit lower in the first quarter versus how it will play out over the next three quarters.
And our rate of productivity savings in the balance of the business so excluding Project K also gets a little bit better as we go through the balance of the year David.
So that contributes to slight gross margin improvement as well.
Great.
And then just to follow up on Kashi where are you on the product renovation side with Kashi going to GMO-free and perhaps the broadening of the organic line? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're making good progress on Kashi.
As you mentioned we are renovating some of our core foods today.
The good news is that we have a strong team in place in California and we are making progress both on the renovation front which we expect to have for Kashi largely this year but also on the innovation front bringing new foods to market.
If you look at what's happened to Kashi we have seen a significant loss of distribution over the last year but our velocities are stabilizing.
And as we bring in new innovation mid-year we expect to start to improve our distribution as we go forward.
So mechanically we're going to see a decline in Kashi this year.
That's really a loss of past distribution as opposed to a weakness in the underlying brand or foods.
And as we start to rebuild through innovation I think we'll start seeing the business return to growth.
That's probably more a 2016 discussion than a 2015 discussion.
The good news as we go talk to retailers about the innovation of what we're doing on the brands there's real excitement about what we're doing and we're seeing improving support from retailers as well as we go forward.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Kurt Feuerman with Alliance.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have a quick comment and then a question.
As a portfolio manager who speaks to many managements in many sectors I'm struck by how positive you are on this call and how informative the call is for I think everyone else whose asked the question so far as a sell-side analyst.
Yet the company is struggling so seriously.
And only 14% of these sell-siders recommend the stock.
That's one of the lowest ratios of any company that's listed.
Here's my question.
It's probably a better question for the board of directors than for senior management but here it is.
How does management justify its lack of urgency and direction in light of continued lackluster results since the current CEO came in? This is to me especially relevant in light of the Heinz Kraft transaction and the fact that 3G – one of the reasons 3G chose Kraft was specifically management's willingness to merge.
So the question is is the company hiding behind its poison pill which is the foundation stake? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Kurt thanks for the question.
We are executing the largest restructuring program in the company's history taking out a very large amount of cost and reinvesting that back in the business to drive long-term growth.
You're seeing that through our investments back in sales capability investments in our food and you're seeing our top line trend starting to improve with growth across our international businesses and better trends in some of our U.S.
businesses.
So we're on track with our plan to return to sustainable growth over time and we believe that's the best way to create value for shareholders.
Right.
But let me just follow up.
We know that you're doing that but it's not providing results that are as good as some of your competitors.
And it's certainly not enhancing shareholder value.
So if you look at just yourself versus General Mills since you became CEO I believe your earnings are up 8% if you earn 355 (60:24) this year which is the midpoint of your guidance.
Whereas General Mills earnings would be up – earnings per share would be up 30%.
And just on shareholder value would you consider merging with another company if that was in the best interest of shareholders? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Kurt we always will do what we think is the best way to create shareholder value and we are – and our belief is (60:49) driving exactly like programs to achieve that outcome and that's what we're absolutely focused on as a company.
I think you're seeing improving trends in this quarter and that's our goal as we go forward.
So I appreciate the question.
Gary I think we better wrap it up please if we can.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
That's it.
Thank you.
We'll be around to answer questions over the next day or two if anybody has follow ups.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
Please note this event is being recorded.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations for Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Burton you may begin your conference call.
Thanks Gary and good morning.
And thank you everyone for joining us for a review of our second quarter 2015 results.
I am joined today by John Bryant Chairman and CEO; Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Norman President of Kellogg North America.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second side of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available via phone through Tuesday August 11.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll now turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Results for earnings were in line with our expectations for the second quarter.
Comparable sales were approximately flat to last year and comparable earnings were $0.92 per share.
The better performance we saw in the U.S.
Cereal business in the first quarter continued in the second quarter and we again saw good performance across the international regions as well.
The benefits we have seen from our initial investment Project K have continued.
And we expect it to continue to build momentum in the second half of the year.
We're on track to meet our guidance for the full year.
Specifically we expect: approximately flat currency-neutral comparable sales; a decline in currency-neutral comparable operating profit of between 2% and 4% including a negative impact of three to four points from rebasing of incentive compensation; and currency-neutral comparable earnings per share to be between flat and down 2% also impacted by compensation.
Our performance in 2015 represents a significant improvement from 2014.
And we believe that we are building a foundation for better results in the future.
As a result our improving momentum and increasing visibility into productivity programs are driving our confidence that we will achieve our long-term targets for sales and operating profit growth in 2016.
So with that in mind I'd now like to talk about some of the things that give us that confidence.
First let's turn to Slide 4 and a discussion about momentum.
Paul and the team have done a great job of improving the performance of our U.S.
Cereal business this year.
And while we definitely have more to do to improve category performance we're confident that we're focusing our investment on the right drivers of sales growth to continue recent trends.
We're improving our food.
We've invested in our sales force.
And we're improving the effectiveness of our brand building.
In addition as you've seen in recent quarters our international businesses have been performing well.
Europe has seen some better results in a difficult environment and growth has been good in Latin America and in Asia.
Secondly our investment in Project K has helped to drive the improved momentum.
It has provided us with the funds to invest in the Kashi organization and a significant number of new sales reps in both our warehouse and DSD sales forces in the U.S.
and in our coverage of high-frequency stores largely in emerging markets.
These investments have already had an impact and will help to drive even better results next year.
Finally we've made some significant structural changes to our business.
Paul will bring his experience and knowledge to running the North American business.
Also we have recently hired Craig Bahner to run our Morning Foods business.
And we've also hired Deanie Elsner who was most recently CMO at Kraft Foods to run our U.S.
Snacks business.
I believe that our management team is now the best we've had in years and represents the right mix of experienced industry professionals from outside the organization and talented long-term Kellogg employees.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Ron.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide five shows the financial results for the second quarter.
As you've likely seen our reported results include a remeasurement of our Venezuelan business to the SIMADI rate of VEB 198 to the US$1.
Venezuela is a volatile market and our circumstances changed in the second quarter.
We experienced disruption in our business operations driven by reduced access to U.S.
dollars for inputs to support production.
As a result we remeasured our business accordingly.
The financial impact of this remeasurement is disclosed in detail in the appendices to our presentation materials.
Reported net sales declined by 5.1% due to the devaluation of international currencies.
Currency-neutral comparable net sales were essentially flat in line with our guidance for the full year.
We saw strong broad-based growth in Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
And in addition our U.S.
Frozen Foods business grew as did our Canadian business.
Reported quarterly operating profit was $412 million and included Project K execution costs and the impact of the remeasurement of the Venezuelan business.
Quarterly currency-neutral comparable operating profit decreased by 6.8% in line with our expectations.
The decline was due to timing of manufacturing costs and higher distribution costs as well as the impact of resetting incentive compensation.
Comparable earnings per share which exclude integration costs mark-to-market adjustments Project K costs $0.37 per share from the remeasurement of the Venezuelan business and other items that affect comparability were $0.92 per share in the first quarter.
These results include $0.05 of currency headwind as a result.
Currency-neutral comparable earnings were $0.97 per share.
Slide six shows details regarding the second quarter sales growth.
Comparable revenues for the quarter increased 0.1% a slight improvement from the first quarter and included a 0.5% increase in price/mix driven by our Latin America business.
We saw good volume growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America driven by growth in Cereal.
And several of our North American businesses grew volume as well.
The slight decline of 0.4% is primarily due to Cereal in developed markets but as Paul will discuss later we are seeing improving trends in U.S.
Cereal.
Currencies lowered reported net sales by 5.5% driven mostly by the euro the peso the Canadian dollar and the pound.
Slide seven shows our year-to-date currency-neutral comparable gross profit and gross margin.
Year-to-date gross margin was broadly in line with last year and with our guidance for the full year.
While we have recognized lower material costs and we continue to generate strong productivity improvements across our supply chain we are seeing higher inflation and distribution costs and as I mentioned earlier some timing on our manufacturing costs versus prior year.
In addition we are investing in our food across the globe.
Recall that we mentioned that some of the Project K-related savings would be invested in our food.
This includes the renovation of Kashi and Special K as well as the launch of granolas and mueslis in a number of countries.
Slide eight shows the quarterly currency-neutral comparable operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's operating profit decreased by 13%.
This was the result of sales declines increased distribution costs timing of costs in our factories and the resetting of incentive compensation levels.
We do expect results to improve as we progress through the balance of the year.
Europe's operating profit increased by 6% in the quarter driven by broad-based improvement in cost of goods sold including Project K savings and the timing of brand-building investments which are weighted more to the second half of the year.
Quarterly operating profit increased by 9% in Latin America as a result of strong sales growth.
This quarter's growth included a significant increase in investment in brand building.
Operating profit increased by 76% in the Asia-Pacific region.
This is the result of double-digit sales growth in Asia and South Africa lower cost of goods sold and comparisons to last year.
In addition the region saw some benefit due to the timing of brand building between the second quarter and the third quarter.
The growth in operating profit also included continued investment in capabilities in the region.
Slide nine shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Year-to-date operating cash flow after capital expenditure was $323 million.
Cash flow in the second quarter was $311 million which represented an improvement of more than $50 million from the second quarter of last year.
We saw good performance in our core working capital as I'll discuss in a minute.
We continue to expect full-year cash flow of approximately $1 billion.
Our cash requirements for Project K are the highest in 2015 and this is impacting our year-to-date position but we remain on track to meet our outlook for the year.
And of course returning cash to shareowners remains a priority for us.
In total we've returned more than $2 billion to shareowners over the last two years through dividends and share repurchases.
Slide 10 shows our core working capital as a percentage of net sales.
As you can see our performance had flattened out over the past several years but we've made a lot of progress improving our position recently and have best-in-class levels of working capital.
We said that we would improve performance further to unlock cash flow after the acquisition of Pringles and to help us fund cash requirements for Project K.
And our supplier-financing initiative has contributed significantly to this improvement.
Slide 11 details our currency-neutral comparable guidance for 2015 which has not changed.
We continue to expect that net sales will be approximately flat for the year.
We now expect a relatively neutral balance between inflation and the combination of productivity improvements and Project K savings.
We've seen slightly more cost come through our materials and distribution but we have been able to manage the impact in our outlook.
Our materials are more than 90% covered.
As a result we expect gross margin for the year to be flat to up slightly.
We expect that operating profit will decline by between 2% and 4%.
We also still expect that currency-neutral comparable earnings will be between $3.74 and $3.82 per share or in a range between flat and down 2%.
Guidance for both operating profit and earnings per share include the impact of resetting incentive compensation.
The expectations for sales operating profit and earnings per share exclude the impact of last year's 53rd week the impact of the remeasurement of the Venezuelan business and the impact of currency translation.
Our expectation for the impact of foreign currency translation is now approximately $0.29 a share up from the $0.24 per share we expected last quarter.
This includes our estimate that the currency headwind from translating future 2015 earnings for our Venezuela business at the SIMADI rate will be approximately $0.10 per share.
This will offset some improvement we've seen in other currencies.
Our tax rate is still expected to be between 27% and 28% and interest expense is expected to be between $215 million and $225 million.
We continue to anticipate that cash flow after capital spending will be approximately $1 billion as I mentioned.
And this includes total incremental cash costs of $350 million for Project K partially offset by benefits from our supplier-financing initiative and other cash flow initiatives.
Total capital spending should be in a range between 4% and 5% of sales including approximately one point of sales for incremental capital associated with Project K.
And our current plan is that we will repurchase between $700 million and $750 million of shares in 2015.
Slide 12 shows our full year earnings per share walk.
Costs for the integration of Pringles and Bisco Misr in Egypt are still expected to be between $0.04 and $0.06 per share.
Project K's pre-tax P&amp;L costs are anticipated to be between $400 million and $450 million or approximately $0.80 to $0.90 per share for the year 75% of which will be in cost of goods sold.
And the impact of the remeasurement of Venezuela in addition to the translation impact of $0.10 per share is expected to be approximately $0.43 per share in total.
A small amount of the remeasurement will impact our second half of the year.
Incremental savings from Project K are still expected to be between $90 million to $100 million for the full year and approximately two-thirds of this will come from cost of goods sold.
For the remainder of the year we expect comparable earnings per share delivery including the impact of foreign exchange to be approximately evenly split across the next two quarters.
Our foreign currency headwind is much greater in the third quarter as currencies had already begun to devalue in the fourth quarter of last year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Paul for a discussion of our North America business.
Kellogg North America</strong> Thanks Ron.
Good morning everyone.
Let's first turn to the performance of the businesses within the North America segment.
Let's start with the Morning Foods business.
As you may have seen in public consumption data the performance of the cereal category has improved this year.
Total consumption across all channels was approximately flat in the second quarter and importantly Kellogg branded sales were essentially flat too with our sixth largest cereal brands collectively growing sales and share in the quarter.
This performance was driven in part by the good performance of the Special K brand one of our main areas of focus over the last year.
I'll talk more about this and Morning Foods in a minute.
Moving onto U.S.
Snacks we saw mixed results in the second quarter with sales down 1.8%.
Pringles grew nicely.
Consumption trends in crackers and cookies improved but we experienced continued weakness in wholesome snacks.
In Crackers our Cheez-It brand grew sales on a full point of share in the quarter.
In fact excluding Special K Cracker Chips our total Cracker business grew sales and share.
On Special K Cracker Chips velocities are improving; however prior losses of distribution continue to weigh heavily on our year-over-year performance.
In Cookies consumption and share trends also improved in the quarter with our Fudge Shoppe Sandies and Simply Made brands all showing consumption growth.
In both Crackers and Cookies our innovation is weighted to the back half with new items such as Cheez-It Extra Toasty Town House Focaccia Chips Deluxe Peanut Butter with M&amp;Ms and Simply Made Sandwich Cremes amongst the numerous launches coming to market now.
Whilst Pringles crackers and cookies all showed positive signs in Q2 wholesome snacks continued to underperform.
Rice Krispies Treats and our base Nutri-Grain foods performed quite well; however distribution losses on prior innovation have impacted our businesses this year.
We are committed to improving the performance of U.S.
Snacks and this will be an area of focus for me in coming months.
Moving on to the Specialty Channels business sales declined by approximately 1% in the second quarter although our business improved as the quarter progressed.
In the Convenience channel we saw share growth in five of the seven categories in which we compete although we did see some weakness in foodservice partially due to the exit from some unprofitable business.
We are confident that our Specialty Channels business will grow in the second half.
The final business is the North America Other segment.
This is the combination of Frozen Foods the Canadian and the Kashi businesses.
Frozen Foods posted currency-neutral comparable net sales growth driven by strong results from the Eggo brand.
Eggo Waffles saw momentum in consumption increased share increased base sales and gains in penetration and buy rate.
In addition Eggo handheld Breakfast Sandwiches continue to do really well in their first year.
And we also saw good sales growth in the Canadian business as Cereal Frozen Food and Snacks all posted growth with sales of Pringles up at a high teen rate.
As expected sales of the Kashi business declined in the second quarter which led to a decline in total North America Other segment sales of about 1.3%.
While sales were down the trend improved as the team began to launch new products and reestablish distribution.
I'll come back to Kashi in a minute.
And now over the next few slides I'd like to focus on the U.S.
Cereal business and some of the progress we've made.
Let's start with Slide 15.
Over the past nine months we have made good progress on the agenda we set out and have seen a stabilization of our Kellogg's branded business.
This is illustrated by our improving top-line performance and Kellogg's branded share being up year-to-date.
Back at CAGNY we spoke about four critical elements to returning Cereal to growth as illustrated on this slide.
These were: focusing on wellness; investing in our foods; engaging with consumers in new ways; and dialing up the fun and executing with impact.
Slide 16 focuses on the first of these wellness in today's world.
One of our biggest challenges has been to return the Special K brand to growth.
We have moved the focus of the brand away from diet towards wellness.
In the past few months we have launched a new protein offering and introduced a gluten-free Special K.
We've also launched taste to innovation by adding more berries to our largest variant Special K Red Berries and we have improved our Special K Vanilla Almond food too.
We've introduced new packaging and new communication to support all of this.
I'm pleased to say we have seen steady improvement in performance over the past few months as you can see on this slide.
In fact consumption increased by 2.4% in the latest public data.
We also have more news to come in August with the launch of new Special K Apple Cinnamon Harvest.
Now let's turn to Slide 17.
Our other challenge has been Kashi.
Whilst we have yet to see the kind of turnaround we've seen on Special K we are seeing distribution losses subside and velocities begin to stabilize.
The team is making good progress on renovation and innovation plans and we expect to see the fruits of these efforts begin to come through in improving trends over the coming months and as we enter 2016.
You can see on the slide some of the Kashi innovation we have launched recently or have coming soon including overnight mueslis granolas gluten-free waffles organic chewy granola seed bars and Sprouted Grain and Sweet Potato Sunshine Organic Promise cereals.
As you know we've made a significant investment in the Kashi team and organization.
And we believe we have the right structure in place.
The team is focused on delivering on-trend food to holistics and we'll leverage the Kellogg Company's infrastructure to the degree that it helps them achieve that objective.
Earlier in the year I also mentioned the launch of Kellogg's Origins which you can see pictured on Slide 18.
This is a range of cereals granolas and mueslis made with simple ingredients and designed to meet evolving consumer needs.
The brand is now launched and early acceptance has been good.
The second critical element to returning Cereal to growth is investing more in our food.
Our work on Kashi Special K and Origins all demonstrate actions to invest more in our foods.
You can see on Slide 19 that this year we have also launched new and improved Froot Loops and Apple Jacks with lower sugar.
And as we look forward we will continue to renovate our core offerings to give consumers more of what they want in the way of nutritional benefits such as protein gluten-free choices and simpler ingredient lists.
We know consumers are looking for foods with simpler ingredients and work is well underway to answer that call.
Already in North America 75% of our cereals are made without artificial colors and more than half are made without artificial flavors.
Further we have been working to remove artificial colors and flavors across Kellogg's branded cereals and a variety of Kellogg's branded snack bars as well as Eggo frozen foods.
Our goal is to complete this transition by the end of 2018.
The cereal category is and always has been a repertoire category offering health taste and importantly fun too.
We believe getting this blend right is as important today as it has ever been.
You can see on Slide 20 that keeping our category vibrant and on-trend also means bringing fun to life on pack and in-store in impactful ways.
We have seen good results behind our Disney Frozen cereal this year and also strong in-market performance behind our in-pack Avengers promotion and event in April.
Looking forward we believe initiatives like these are just as important as what we do on the health and nutrition front to drive category engagement.
The final area I wanted to mention is in-store execution on Slide 21.
With our dedicated sales force including field sales reps back in place we are seeing tangible improvements come through in the area of assortment gains in-stock performance and merchandising behind the initiatives I outlined earlier.
So in summary on Slide 22 whilst we still have plenty to do we are pleased with the progress we're making on our Cereal business behind better core brand performance relevant innovation and renovation and better execution through the path to purchase.
In fact sales are on-trend to be flat to up in 2016 a great improvement.
Finally I would like to thank the entire Morning Foods team who have done an incredible job over the past year improving all parts of our plan.
With that I'll turn you back to John.
Thanks Paul.
Now let's turn to Slide 23 and detail regarding our European business.
The Pringles business in Europe had another great quarter and delivered mid-single digit currency-neutral comparable sales growth on a difficult double-digit comparison last year.
The business in the UK posted double-digit growth and share gains partially as a result of increased distribution.
In addition the launch of Pringles Tortillas made an important contribution to sales although only launched recently.
We have a significant Pringles business in Germany as well and we saw high single-digit sales growth there as a result of distribution gains and increased commercial activity.
Consumption trends improved in our Wholesome Snacks business in the second quarter.
We have restaged Special K Bars in the region which is helping the brand's performance.
This and the renovation of some of our foods will continue to contribute and we expect the Wholesome Snack business to return to growth by the end of the year.
Total comparable net sales in the region decreased by 2.5% in the quarter as the Cereal category continued to be a challenge.
We restaged our Special K Cereals in July and had other activity launching at the same time.
In addition we're introducing new Special K Cereals on the Continent in the second half.
We've introduced mueslis in Germany and are expanding the interaction to other parts of the region.
Slide 24 shows some detail regarding our Latin American business.
Total currency-neutral comparable net sales in the region increased by 14.5% in the second quarter driven by growth in both Cereal and Snacks.
Sales in the Cereal business were ahead of our expectations and included both volume growth and improvement in price/mix.
In addition we gained category share across our key businesses and we increased investment in brand building at a double-digit rate in the quarter.
Specifically we saw good growth in our portfolio of kids' cereals and a benefit from the parent brand products we've launched this year.
Sales in the Snack business increased at a high-single digit rate largely driven by new products and go-to-market programs.
In addition underlying consumption growth in Pringles was good all of which led to increased year-to-date share gains in the Mexican Brazilian and Colombian businesses.
As we discussed on last quarter's conference call we executed the Copa América soccer-related initiative in the second quarter and it was a huge success.
They had the highest customer engagement ever from a program in Latin America and has helped to drive the sales growth we saw in both Pringles and Cereal.
Also as we discussed last quarter we have started investing in high-frequency stores in the region.
This initiative is relatively new but is already driving distribution gains and sales growth and we see significant opportunity for further gains as we expand our efforts.
The team in Latin America has done a great job with new products investing in growth and executing the plans.
The results this quarter reflect all this effort.
Let's turn to Slide 25 and our Asia-Pacific business.
Currency-neutral comparable net sales in Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa increased at a double-digit rate in the quarter due to broad-based growth.
The Indian business also grew at a double-digit rate of growth across brands with some of our new packaging initiatives driving results.
The business in Japan also grew at a double-digit rate due to the continued popularity of granolas and strong growth from All-Bran.
New advertising and innovation helped drive sales of the Special K brand up significantly in South Korea.
We also saw good growth in Southeast Asia.
The Pringles business also posted strong net sales growth in the quarter and consumption increased at a double-digit rate due to geographic expansion and the success of a music campaign similar to the one we run in Europe.
Sales declined in the Australian business with a total quarterly sales growth for the region of 6.8%.
While we expect the environment in Australia to remain challenging we have plans for improvement which include new product introductions support which stresses the nutritional benefits of our food and a focus on increasing distribution.
The first half of the year has been strong for the Asia-Pacific segment and we expect that the team will continue to execute well over the remainder of the year.
Let's turn to the summary on page 26.
We are on track to meet our expectations for 2015.
And importantly this performance represents progress over 2014.
As I mentioned earlier we're building momentum.
We're seeing improvement in our U.S.
Cereal business improvement in our European business and good growth in both the Latin American and Asian businesses and we're confident that this improvement will continue into 2016.
We've invested savings from Project K and have seen the benefits.
This investment will continue to increase next year.
We have a talented management team that will drive the results of the individual segments.
We have a well-defined strategy that we are continuing to execute.
And we're starting an aggressive zero-based budgeting program which we expect will generate significant savings in addition to the savings flowing from Project K.
These two programs will allow us to invest in the business while also driving improvement in operating margin.
All of this gives us confidence that we will achieve our long-term targets for comparable sales and operating profit growth in 2016.
We're planning an investment day in November.
And we'll give you more detail then regarding our plans for next year.
And with that I'd like end by thanking our employees around the world for all their hard work.
Now I will open up for questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Alexia.
Can I ask just in terms of the improvement in profitability in the second half just to help me understand that a little better.
It was obviously down quite a bit this quarter I think 6.8%.
Does that include roughly a 6% headwind from incentive comp that basically goes away from here on out because you started taking guidance down in the second half of last year? If we could just run through that and then I have a follow-up.
Sure Alexia.
A couple of things on that first of all we do have an expectation that sales will improve over the second half of the year.
We have seen improvement from the first quarter to the second quarter and we expect that to improve as we go into the second half.
We did have some incentive compensation headwind in the second quarter.
It's a couple of points impact to operating profit.
We do have some of that impact going into the third and fourth quarter as well though so that isn't the primary driver.
Really it's the sales performance.
And then from a productivity standpoint within cost of goods sold we are seeing our savings ramp up a little bit as we go through the balance of the year.
That will help both gross margin as well as operating profit performance.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then the North American operating profit trends you're expecting to get back onto your long-term earnings growth algorithm in 2016.
Does that mean that operating profit growth in North America should pull around very quickly here certainly within the next two or three quarters? Yes.
As I mentioned we do expect improving trends in operating profit in the back half for North America.
And as we move into 2016 as you'd expect we do anticipate growth in North American operating profit.
Okay.
That's very early in the year.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
The next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everybody.
Morning Andrew.
Inc.</span></strong> Just following on that this is I guess as early in the year that I can remember in quite some time where Kellogg kind of discussed at least preliminarily their view for the out year in this case 2016.
So again I'm just trying to get a sense of maybe what drives the timing of that to be this early in the year to talk about next year.
And I think as you discussed earlier it does require Morning Foods to certainly be more stable and really into sort of modest growth mode.
So is this just really a thought around your confidence level of that happening kind of sooner than later? And really what's driving that? Good question Andrew.
I think it's as you say very early in 2015 to give guidance for 2016.
What we're essentially doing is letting investors know that we expect to be on our long-term top-line and operating profit growth goals for 2016.
And the reason we're doing that as you look at the performance in 2015 we believe that we're building momentum.
It's a significant improvement from where we were in 2014.
We expect that momentum to build into 2016.
What's driving that momentum is the returns on our Project K investments.
So whether that be: the globe category teams and rapidly transferring ideas around the world; the Kashi team and the stronger innovation pipeline we see coming from that business; investing back in in-store execution; feet on the street in our U.S.
Cereal business; and the investments in our emerging market capabilities such as high-frequency stores.
Also we have excellent productivity programs into 2016.
We have additional savings from Project K.
We have our underlying continues improvement programs.
And on top of that we have the zero-based budgeting initiative.
So while it's too early to give specific guidance for 2016 we wanted to give investors a sense as we go into 2016 we do expect to be back on our long-term goals.
We could obviously halt for the third quarter call or the fourth quarter call to do that but we've given a commitment to investors to get back on those goals as quickly as possible and we wanted to get that out there that we see that happening in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for the deep dive on North America.
I just wanted ask Paul if we were to use the Special K extensions in snacks as a case study as to what you're trying to do with Special K you've made some progress with Special K in cereal.
It seems to be a little bit more slow to recover in the snack side.
And you're talking about feet on the street investments there.
Could you perhaps talk about what the issues are between execution reformulation or other with that side? Thanks.
Kellogg North America</span></strong> Hi David.
I'd say we've been a little ahead on some of the work we've been doing on cereal and we have touched all parts of the brand.
If you take Special K where it plays in snacks on crackers on the Special K Cracker Chips we are seeing some improving velocity through the renovated foods we've put back in market.
However we're lapping some pretty significant distribution losses.
So the biggest issue there is recapturing lost distribution to be able to get that part of the business back on trend.
As you go towards wholesome we did do some renovation on our core bars earlier in the year.
They're holding steady.
We're just launching as we speak Special K Chewy Nut Bars which is a step-change in food.
And that's just entering the market as we speak mid-year.
So we'll be watching that closely as we look forward on Special K.
So the work is coming.
The innovation is there.
The renovation is there.
It's a little behind in Wholesome relative to where it was in the Cereal business.
If I could just follow-up on that just the reinvestments that were made in DSD the feet on the street I think that began last year.
How is that reinvestment there or investment there progressed over the last couple of years and if there's any sort of detail you can give us about how that's going? Thanks.
Kellogg North America</span></strong> We did add some additional reps to the DSD system back I think it was early last year.
And we've had some impact from that.
I think what we're seeing on the Morning Foods side of the business is even more impactful where we've put the feet on the street back on the warehouse side.
And as a proportion of the change the impact to warehouse was much bigger than the impact we did to the DSD system.
Thank you.
Kellogg North America</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning Bryan.
Hey a question about the zero-based budgeting if I recall correctly where we left off last was that you were kind of watching and what was happening at perhaps at Kraft or some other companies and we're going to kind of look at it closely.
So I guess if you could talk about maybe what's changed in the last three months that you know caused you to think about or caused you to go further down that path on zero-based budgeting.
And then connected to that will you consider any change in the way that you change incentive compensation related to it just simply because it's you know it's such an investment for the employee base and it's a little bit long-term in terms of driving value? So those two things what's changed in terms of adopting it and will it come with a change in the way you calculate or look at incentive comp? Hi Bryan.
This is Ron.
Hey first in terms of our zero-based budgeting initiative that John mentioned.
Timing is absolutely right for us at this point in time.
Remember a couple of years ago we undertook Project K big initiative for us touching all parts of the globe.
That project is progressing very well.
It's on track at this point in time both from an operational execution standpoint as well as the financial elements of the program.
Fact is we already ran some pilots on zero-based budgeting back in 2014 so we've learned from those pilots.
We have determined now the application is right.
We're going to begin in North America.
And actually that gives us some support for confidence in growing profit in North America next year.
So we'll roll it into North America end of 2015 and into 2016 and then cascade it across the globe after that.
A little bit early for us to talk about savings estimates at this point in time but it does give us more confidence as I said in our 2016 outlook.
And on the incentive compensation I wouldn't see us changing our macro plan design but I could see us working to ensure we incentivize the savings for the people who are driving that program.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for the question.
Morning Jason.
I guess I was a little surprised in terms your gross margin outlook where you talked about inflation and productivity are now sort of neutral for the year.
It sounds like there's some incremental cost rolling through the P&amp;L.
Can you give us a breakdown of what that is? And also any incremental color you can add in terms of the magnitude of investment that you're absorbing in gross margin regards to the product quality and rejuvenation efforts there? Sure Jason.
In terms of our outlook on our inputs our productivity and then input costs.
There has been a little bit of a change.
Remember when we started the year we said that all up with the productivity savings the input inflation and then Project K savings we may be net a little bit deflationary.
Well as we've come through the front part of this year we've encountered avian influenza.
That is having an impact on our egg costs and that's relatively significant for us.
So it's having an impact particularly on our back half cost structure.
So we're expecting it to be relatively neutral now.
We do believe our gross margin will be flat though to up slightly.
While it's difficult for us to tease out the additional costs of renovating our foods certainly there are additional costs in this year from doing that and there will be meaningful costs over the next couple of years from continually evolving and improving our foods.
And we will fund those through a variety of productivity programs within the company to absorb those costs.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And one more if I may.
A question for you Paul in terms of North America cereal.
Can give us a sense of how much capacity you've taken out of the cereal market in the U.S.
and how much from where you sit you think has come out of the industry? And as we look at some of the scanner data it is encouraging to see that the amount of volume that's being sold on promotion has been steadily eroding.
Do you think that we're seeing more rational behavior in terms of discipline on promotion and price investment? And do you think there's any relation to the capacity reductions that have happened? Kellogg North America</span></strong> Obviously we did close a facility last year in Canada so that came out of the Kellogg business.
I can't talk to all the stuff that's going on with our competitors but I know they're making moves as well.
I think the marketplace is pretty rational at the moment.
We're seeing a little bit of price realization.
We're putting our money as I said back into our food.
We're investing back into our core brands.
We're renovating innovating and trying to drive those sales fundamentals right through to the store.
I think that's where we'll get the benefit.
I don't think there's going to be a lot more heavy promotion per se.
I think the category dynamics are pretty good at the moment.
Thanks a lot guys.
I'll pass it on.
The next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Vishal Patel in for Ken.
I just had a question on the recent agreement with the union that you announced over the weekend.
You're not reducing workforce as a result.
Is that a fair statement? Yeah Vishal I think if you look at our cereal network as Paul mentioned we closed a fairly meaningful facility last year in London Canada that reduced the size of our footprint in North America.
The contract that was signed with the union I think is a very good contract.
It enables us to be more cost competitive.
It gives us operational flexibility going forward.
So it has us holding the number of cereal plants we have today open but we have flexibility within that to change the scheduling and the production of cereal based upon what we need to produce for the category.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
This is Alexis Borden in for David this morning.
Good morning.
Kellogg North America</span></strong> Hello.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Question so comparing Special K with Kashi so basically you've been seeing Special K trends improve and the retail scanner data shows this but when you look at Kashi it's still struggling with double-digit sales declines.
Can you maybe tell us what's going right in Special K and why it's being harder to turn around Kashi how do you see that progressing? Kellogg North America</span></strong> Okay.
As I spoke through in the prepared notes I think we were a little ahead on Special K again versus where we were on Kashi.
We've innovated with on-trend food.
We've reinvested in some of our core SKUs.
We have migrated the positioning of the brand more to wellness from diet and we've invested and activated heavily.
Kashi we have a bit of a lag because we've had to do quite a lot of renovation to our foods including GOLEAN for example which I'm pleased to say in Q3 2015 will now be Non-GMO Project certified.
The rest of the portfolio will go that way in Q1 2016.
So we've more or less got through the renovation phase of our work on Kashi.
We also moved to put a team back in place in Kashi back in California.
That team now is fully functional and in place and we're beginning to see the benefits of the renovation and innovation work they've been doing coming through.
So I think you'll see Kashi trends improving in the back half of this year into the beginning of next year.
We are seeing distribution losses which were a big driver of those declines subside and velocity stabilizing.
So I think the recipe or the ingredients are coming together for Kashi to start to get back into growth as we finish this year and move into next year.
So I think you'll see sequential improvement from now on with Kashi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just a follow up on the zero-based budgeting question that Bryan asked.
My understanding is that Kellogg had done this benchmarking work in the past and found that like in North America ex the DSD costs that SG&amp;A and admin expenses were pretty much in line with its peers.
Am I mistaken in that assumption? And so what did you find in that pilot last year? Did you find opportunities? And if so in what areas? Yeah Rob so when we look at benchmarking our SG&amp;A costs and let's set aside the advertising costs and other brand-building costs and just get to pure overhead we do find that we tend the benchmark pretty well.
But peers are moving on us as well.
We believe there's opportunity by executing a zero-based budgeting initiative starting as I said in North America and then cascading it across the globe.
So we see it as an opportunity for us to be more competitive and perhaps unlock some funds for reinvestment into the business or to drop to the bottom line.
Okay.
So it's just a function of everyone else is cutting so you think the bar keeps getting higher so to speak.
Well I think again we've run a couple of trials some projects internally and we've found some savings.
Some of that savings have been in areas that we would not have anticipated such as non people-related overhead costs.
And we're also going to apply the ZBB tools into the brand-building element as well which we are finding significant efficiencies even this year whether it be in agency fees media buying point-of-sale materials all those sorts of elements as well.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is Mario Contreras on for Eric.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I had a couple of questions on I guess a couple of the adjustments you had this quarter.
First on the VIE deconsolidation.
Can you talk a little bit about what that business was and what led to that decision? And then second on the Venezuela currency adjustments.
Obviously that's been a pretty volatile economy for a good amount of time now.
So can you just talk about what got worse this quarter that led you guys to make the decision to change that accounting? Sure.
So first on this variable interest entity we recognized a gain due to deconsolidating this third-party business.
This is a co-manufacturer that was making food for our U.S.
Snacks business.
It was consolidated into our results over the past several years based on the accounting rules.
In this quarter the business sold itself to a third-party and that triggered a change in our accounting.
If you look at our 10-Q it's been disclosed in the past and you'll see it disclosed again obviously and the impact.
It's a one-time non-cash item that we've excluded from our comparable results.
Now if we move on to Venezuela our situation did change in the second quarter in Venezuela.
As I've mentioned in the past we buy a small amount of inputs from outside of Venezuela to manufacture product in the country.
And we typically get access to U.S.
dollars to be able to do that.
In the first quarter we got access to those U.S.
dollars.
In the second quarter we had no access to U.S.
dollars.
And in fact the government has indicated that it is going to slow payments going forward.
This created disruption to our business in the second quarter so we reevaluated the matter.
And we determined that the best rate for us to measure the business at was a SIMADI rate of 198 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar but we still remain a priority industry within Venezuela.
We do expect to continue to manufacture and to serve our consumers.
We have a good business there and we have a great team that's managing in a very difficult environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks for the time.
The next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
On cereal one of your top customers has spoken about in general you know not promoting as often across food maybe going back a little bit toward EDLP.
And I guess that would lead to display space for promos in general reverting to a more normal level.
And bear with me here but I'm just wondering if this has benefited cereal in any way because I think of cereal as a product that maybe relies on successful promotions to succeed.
And if there is less competition for display space right if consumers are no longer seeing displays all over the board but they're seeing sort of the legacy ones like cereal has that helped the category at all or is it not really taking place in your mind? Kellogg North America</span></strong> Thanks for the question Ken.
Obviously I cannot talk about specific customers.
If I focus on our Cereal business I think what we're seeing is the good return on our focus on driving our core brands better with better innovation promotions renovation ideas and really focusing through the path to purchase with impact for sales execution and that's driving display.
If you look at the data from Nielsen I don't think you're seeing a lot more display necessarily.
We are getting more impact and quality merchandising because we're leveraging the scale of these events and bringing fun and news to the point of purchase.
So I don't see any relation to the theory you put forward.
I think we focus on delivering our business and executing and exciting consumers in every retail environment.
If I could add to that too Ken I think if you look beyond the U.S.
we've seen the Canadian cereal category get a lot better as well.
And we're also seeing improving category trends although they're not quite where we'd like them to be in the UK and Australia as well.
So I think you're seeing cereal get on a stronger footing in some these large cereal markets.
And even on a global basis we actually grew our cereal sales globally in the first quarter and in the second quarter.
Thanks John.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
The next question comes from David Hayes with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi gentlemen.
Thank you.
I think this is for Paul this question.
Just in terms of this encouraging momentum on U.S.
Cereal and obviously this impressive array of innovation I guess if I was being concerned or nervous about the ongoing trend the question would be can you give us some kind of indication of your confidence that there isn't any channel pipe fill from these innovations in these numbers? And I guess more importantly in some ways the consumer pull-through or the consumer repeat purchasing you've got $0.10 of people trying it because it's new and then you don't get it pulled through.
If you can give us some kind of indication ideally quantitatively in terms of focus group feedback and repeat purchase information just to sort of give us that feel that this is actually ongoing business rather than people trying and then we've got to wait to see what happens in the next six to 12 months in terms of pull-through.
Thanks.
Kellogg North America</span></strong> Hi David.
Two points to probably go towards one is the data I was quoting is consumption data so it's actually purchased data total category's flat.
Our biggest six brands are growing consumption dollars and share so this is being pulled through.
This isn't us pushing into the market.
We have no inventory issues within the U.S.
Special K is interesting because the brand was up.
Base sales as the quarter progressed went into progression as well.
So when you've got base movement off the shelf this isn't purely incrementally driven through display and price promotion it's actually good fundamentals coming through in terms of base consumption.
So we know that consumers want nothing more than more goodies in their food when it comes to red berries and giving them more of what they want we're seeing them buy more from the shelf importantly.
So I think the underlying trends are positive.
That's why I feel positive about the future.
This isn't share rental or overly pushing the business.
This is good consumer demand coming through.
Okay.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Matt Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Morning Matt.
Morning.
John just coming back around to the 2016 outlook you gave us a number of factors that give you confidence in the achievability of those targets and the willingness talk about them today.
Just curious here what you see as the biggest challenges or areas of uncertainty or areas where you're pushing the employee base to work harder to make sure you actually do deliver on those targets.
And Ron I know this essentially is sort of asking for guidance but is there any incremental color you can give us on the phasing of Project K savings you're looking for next year not necessarily an absolute but maybe relative to what we're seeing this year? If I answer your question first on 2016 I think the important thing to remember is we are building momentum.
In 2014 a tough year for us we're building momentum in 2015 and we see that continuing into 2016.
You're seeing it with continued strong Pringles growth around the world.
You're seeing it with the larger cereal businesses starting to perform better particularly in the U.S.
and Canada so far.
You're seeing also very strong emerging market growth.
We grew cereal double digits across Latin America and Asia.
And so that's helping our results as well.
And we're seeing these overall trends put us in a better position as we go into 2016.
So I think what really helps give visibility to 2016 is the excellent cost and productivity outlook that we have for 2016.
Obviously we'll have Project K savings come through.
We'll have continuous improvement programs.
And we'll have zero-based budgeting also start to help 2016.
So clearly I'd like to get the top-line growth in place but even if the top-line growth is lower than we would like we still have good productivity visibility for next year.
And Matt in terms of Project K savings recall our guidance for 2015 is that we expect savings in the range of $90 million to $100 million.
And we're tracking in line with that.
Remember we always said that are savings would ramp up as we went through the years.
As we look at 2016 at this point in time and it's early to provide guidance on Project K savings but we expect savings to be north of $100 million.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Simon Burton for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
We'll be around for the next day or two for follow-up questions.
Look forward to talking to you then.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kellogg Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Simon Burton of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Gary and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter 2015 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant Chairman and CEO and Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
As you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investment and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Friday November 6 and the call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
I'll now turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
We are pleased that the momentum we've seen so far this year has continued to build through the third quarter.
Total currency-neutral comparable revenue growth of 1% was above our top-line guidance for the full year and it builds on the flat growth we posted in the first half of the year.
We saw sales respond to the investment we've made continued stabilization in many of our businesses in the quarter and growth in the U.S.
Specialty channels Canadian Latin American and Asia Pacific businesses.
In addition we continue to make great progress with our productivity initiatives.
Overall currency-neutral comparable operating profit was in line with our expectations and included a significant impact from this year's rebasing of incentive compensation.
Ron will discuss this in more detail but excluding this impact currency-neutral comparable operating profit growth would've been approximately 6% in the quarter.
We are raising our guidance for cash flow to $1.1 billion in 2015.
We're on track to meet our guidance for currency-neutral comparable sales operating profit and earnings per share in 2015.
And we will achieve these results while setting up an even better year in 2016.
The momentum we're building and our aggressive productivity programs give us confidence that we will meet our long-term targets for currency-neutral comparable net sales and operating profit growth in 2016 and beyond.
We'll give you more color regarding our overall business at our Investor Day in a few weeks but we are excited about the plans we have for each of our businesses and the performance we expect as a result.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ron for discussion of our financial results Thanks John and good morning.
Slide 4 shows the financial results for the third quarter.
Currency-neutral comparable net sales increased by 1% greater than our full-year guidance for growth.
We saw strong growth across many of our emerging and developing markets in Latin America Asia Pacific and Europe.
We are pleased with the performance of our U.S.
Cereal business.
U.S.
Snacks improved sequentially.
And we grew in the U.S.
Specialty channel and Canadian businesses.
And Pringles posted increased sales growth in each of our regions.
Reported net sales declined by 8.5% due to foreign currency translation.
Comparable operating profit declined by 2.3%; however as John mentioned that decline includes a headwind from the rebasing of incentive compensation this year.
Without this impact comparable operating profit would've been eight points higher and would have shown growth of approximately 6%.
This reinforces our previous comments on the operating leverage in our business.
Reported operating profit was $334 million in the third quarter including items affecting comparability as detailed in the appendices to our presentation.
Comparable earnings per share were $0.85 in the quarter.
And these results include $0.11 of currency headwind.
So currency-neutral comparable earnings per share were $0.96 an increase of 2.1% from the third quarter of last year.
Slide 5 shows the components of the quarter's sales growth.
We had good price/mix realization despite some adverse country mix in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Overall volume declined by 1.6%.
And while volume declined in our U.S.
Cereal and Snacks businesses we continue to see signs of stabilization.
The Asia Pacific region posted good volume growth as did Mexico the Mediterranean and Middle East regions and Specialty channels in the U.S.
And we continue to see strong volume performance from Pringles across the globe.
The impact of foreign exchange lowered reported net sales by almost 10% driven by a wide basket of currencies.
And note that our devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar at mid-year represents almost half of the 10 point impact to sales.
Slide 6 shows details regarding our third quarter currency-neutral comparable gross profit and gross margin.
Gross margin in the third quarter improved by 20 basis points.
Year-to-date gross margin remained unchanged from last year.
Overall commodity and packaging costs are deflationary and our strong productivity initiatives combined with Project K savings are benefiting our supply chain costs.
However we are seeing continued higher transportation costs.
In addition we are investing more money in our foods.
Examples include our launch of granolas and mueslis across the globe and renovation of existing foods such as Special K.
The combination of these factors has resulted in relatively flat gross margins year-to-date.
Slide 7 shows the third quarter operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's currency-neutral comparable operating profit decreased by 3%.
This was due to the slight decline in sales and a significant impact of rebasing incentive compensation.
The rebasing reduced operating profit by eight points in the quarter.
We expect further improvement in North America's currency-neutral comparable operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.
Europe's operating profit increased by 3% in the third quarter.
This growth was a result of deflation in commodities and strong productivity in cost of goods sold.
And it also included an increase in brand building in the quarter.
Operating profit in Latin America increased by 15% as a result of strong sales growth in the region including the impact from Venezuela.
While we did see some adverse shift in the timing of sales in certain part of the region impacting our third quarter we are growing volume and sales year-to-date.
Operating profit decreased by 20% in the Asia Pacific region.
We are investing some Project K savings in this region to drive growth so the result includes investment in our brands and capabilities.
Slide 8 shows our year-to-date cash flow.
Year-to-date operating cash flow after capital expenditure was $580 million.
This result includes year-to-date investment in Project K of approximately $260 million.
And as I mentioned last quarter cash costs for Project K in 2015 will be approximately $350 million the most in any year of the project.
As you can see on the chart we now expect full-year cash flow of approximately $1.1 billion an increase of $100 million from our original estimate.
This increase is due to accelerated performance of our supplier-financing initiative in the fourth quarter.
In fact we expect that this initiative will offset the approximately $350 million in full-year cash costs for Project K.
Slide 9 shows our core working capital as a percentage of net sales.
In the past we have discussed our focus on working capital improvements and our supplier-financing initiative in particular.
Over the first nine months of this year we have reduced our core working capital as a percentage of sales by more than one point.
And as I said we expect accelerated progress on supplier-financing in the fourth quarter and we are also evaluating new initiatives to unlock even more cash from our working capital.
Slide 10 shows our guidance for 2015.
We continue to expect that net sales will be approximately flat for the year.
We now expect gross margin for the year to be relatively flat also.
We continue to expect that operating profit will decline by between 2% and 4% and we also still expect that currency-neutral comparable earnings per share will be in a range between flat and down 2%.
And results for both currency-neutral comparable operating profit and earnings per share still include a negative impact of three points to four points from the resetting of incentive compensation.
The expectations for sales operating profit and earnings per share do exclude the impact of items affecting comparability.
Our expectation for the impact of foreign exchange translation is now approximately $0.31 a share an increase from the $0.29 per share we expected last quarter.
This change is due to the Canadian dollar the pound sterling and the Australian dollar.
Our expectations for net interest expense have increased to between $225 million and $230 million driven by slightly higher levels of debt associated with our acquisitions in Nigeria and Egypt.
We now expect that the full-year tax rate will be between 26% and 27% which will cover the impact of higher interest cost and other below-the-line items.
Guidance for total capital spending remains in a range between 4% and 5% of sales including approximately one point of sales for incremental capital to execute Project K and we still expect share repurchases of approximately $700 million to $750 million for this year.
Slide 11 shows our full-year earnings per share walk.
Costs for the integration of acquisitions are still expected to be between $0.04 and $0.06 per share although they could be to the high end of that range given the recent acquisitions in Egypt and Nigeria.
And we now anticipate that Project K's pre-tax profit and loss statement costs will be between $350 million and $400 million or approximately $0.70 to $0.80 per share for the year.
We expect that two-thirds of these costs will be in cost of goods sold.
The change in the expected cost is simply due to the timing of projects between years.
Project K remains on track.
And our estimate for savings in 2015 and 2016 has not changed.
Slide 12 shows our guidance for 2016.
As we communicated on our Q2 call we expect our currency-neutral comparable sales to be in our long-term guidance range for low single-digit growth.
We also expect 4% to 6% growth in currency-neutral comparable operating profit.
As we mentioned last quarter if current sales growth trends continue it could put us at the lower end of our long-term sales targets but even if this happens we will still meet our goals for operating profit growth due to the significant productivity programs we have underway.
We expect currency-neutral comparable earnings per share growth of between 6% and 8%.
And our outlook assumes a similar amount of share repurchases to the $700 million to $750 million we expect in 2015.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John for a discussion of operating performance by segment.
Thanks Ron.
Now let's turn to Slide 13 and the U.S.
Morning Foods business.
Results for the third quarter came in as we expected.
The Kellogg brand gained share in the quarter and saw continued sequential improvement in consumption.
In fact our total consumption was essentially flat and we gained share.
Importantly category base sales were up in the quarter and we outpaced the category.
Our six core cereals grew in combination and gained share.
Raisin Bran posted double-digit growth due to great advertising and the popular cranberry innovation.
Overall Mini-Wheats did well as core Bite Size posted growth in both base and incremental sales and our second-half innovation did well including Pumpkin Spice Mini-Wheats which were a big hit.
As you can see on the chart Special K continued to benefit from activity that began in the second quarter.
The brand posted increased sales and share gains again just as it did last quarter.
And our adult cereals in total which have been an area of softness returned to growth.
And finally for Morning Foods we've had a great reception for the innovation we have planned for the first quarter.
For example we're launching Special K Nourish which is a cereal with positive nutrition and ingredients the consumer can see in the food.
There are two SKUs in the U.S.
Cranberry Coconut Almond and Apple Raspberry Almond.
And both are made with a multi-grain quinoa flake.
So the food includes fruits nuts and on-trends grains like quinoa.
You'll remember that this ready-to-eat cereal has been very popular in other parts of the world and retail acceptance in the U.S.
has been encouraging.
We've got a lot of activity planned for the launch and we're excited about the potential.
Let's turn to Slide 14 and our U.S.
Snacks business.
Overall we saw sequential improvement in the Cracker Cookie Wholesome Snack and Pringles businesses in the third quarter.
In all channels overall consumption of our crackers was essentially flat in the quarter and our big three brands posted low single-digit consumption growth in measured channels.
The Cheez-It brand posted consumption growth of 3% driven by increased display and the success of two new products Cheez-It Grooves and Extra Toasty.
In addition Cheez-It also grew base sales at a mid-single digit rate much faster than the category average.
The Club brand also posted increased consumption and share gains as the core business performed well and the new Town House and Kashi also gained share and now holds 0.6% share of the overall category.
Our Special K Cracker and Popcorn Chips which have been an adverse headwind continue to impact results.
And while we're continuing to be impacted by past losses in distribution the products we restaged earlier this year posted slight consumption growth in the quarter.
In the Cookie category the Fudge Shoppe Chips Deluxe Famous Amos Fudge Stripes and Mother's brands all posted consumption growth in the quarter.
We have some strong brands which respond well to activity and we're encouraged by recent performance.
We're pleased that we're seeing sequential improvement in the business although we have been impacted by a decline in 100 calorie packs this year as we've discussed before.
The Wholesome Snack business posted a low single digit decline in consumption in measured channels plus the Club channel.
And the Special K brand posted an increase in consumption of almost 3% across the same channels driven by new Special K Chewy Nut Bars.
The Pringles business posted low single digit sales growth building on high single digit growth last year.
Across all channels including Club and Convenience combined Pringles posted mid-single digit growth in the quarter.
So the team has been doing a lot of work in each of the categories and we're seeing sequential improvement as a result.
There's a lot more to come as well.
And we'll hear more about some of those plans at the Investor Day scheduled for later in the month.
Slide 15 shows highlights regarding the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Comparable net sales in the Specialty channels increased by 6% in the quarter with Foodservice Convenience and Vending channels all posted growth.
The Foodservice performance was driven by the growth of whole grain offerings in the K through 12 school business.
The Convenience business had an easier comp last year due to a customer lowering their inventory.
In addition we also saw excellent broad-based growth across the categories in the Convenience channel.
And year-to-date we've grown share in the Cereal Cracker Wholesome Snack and Cookie categories.
Finally for Specialty the Pringles business also continues to do well.
As you can see on the slide our new Zip Dip product Pringles and dip together won the Retailer Choice Award for best new product in the Convenience channel and helped the overall Pringles business post double digit growth and gain share in Q3.
The team continues to expect a strong fourth quarter for both sales and operating profit and are excited about our prospects for 2016.
Slide 16 highlights performance of the North America Other segment including the U.S.
Frozen Foods Kashi and Canadian businesses.
In the Frozen Foods business our Eggo hand-held sandwiches continued to perform well in the quarter.
As you've seen in public data consumption increased at a strong double digit rate and we gained share.
Elsewhere in the business a number of items affected performance including egg prices network improvements the timing of activity and the drawing-down of inventories in anticipation of an exciting change to packaging.
We ended the third quarter with low levels of retail inventory.
And we expect a continued impact in the fourth quarter with improvement in 2016.
The Kashi business is seeing stabilized distribution and sequential improvement in cereal consumption and share performance although sales still declined.
In Cereal our Sweet Potato Sunshine and sprouted grain cereals are doing well.
In fact overall consumption trends improved significantly as the year has progressed.
In the latest data year-to-date cereal consumption was down 13% 12 week consumption was down 7% and four week consumption was down only 3%.
So the team has done a great job and we're on track to return the business to growth in 2016.
And we're increasingly confident about next year.
We're focused on progressive nutrition and have some great introductions planned.
In fact our total weight of innovation in 2016 is twice what it has been in 2015.
And finally net sales for the Canadian business increased in the quarter due to growth in Wholesome Snacks Pringles and Frozen Foods and we grew share in the Cereal category.
Unfortunately the combination of the performance of the Frozen Food and Kashi businesses led to a quarterly sales decline in the segment.
Let's turn to Slide 17 and our European business.
The Pringles business in Europe posted strong double digit net sales growth in the quarter.
The base business posted growth in the launch of Pringles Tortilla (sic) [Tortillas] in the UK and Germany also contributed to the overall performance.
In addition we had strong commercial initiatives across the region.
And we expect continued good performance in the fourth quarter traditionally the quarter of the year with the highest level of sales.
We have exciting plans for the region's Wholesome Snack business in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
As in many parts of the world we are making significant investment in our food in Europe.
This includes the relaunch of Special K Bars an extensive innovation that will include completely new foods with fruits nuts and seeds.
The Cereal business declined in the quarter as a result of continued difficult environment in the UK and parts of the continent.
The focus for the team is to strengthen the overall plan and improve performance.
With this in mind we have included additional activity in the UK focused on Crunchy Nut Krave our porridge products a tie-in with of Star Wars and increased levels of holiday promotions.
In addition there's exciting activity coming in the first quarter.
We're taking lessons learned from the U.S.
and applying them in the region.
We're adding more red berries to Special K.
And we're launching new products including cereals mueslis and granolas and also launching Special K Nourish cereal.
Slide 18 shows highlights for our Latin American business.
Total currency-neutral comparable net sales increased at a double digit rate.
Cereal sales in the region increased significantly.
And we've seen good volume growth and have held or increased year-to-date share in strategic businesses like Mexico Colombia and Brazil.
These share gains have been driven by children's and family brands and the introduction of Kellogg's branded granolas and mueslis.
Sales in the Snack business also increased in the quarter driven by innovation and go-to-market activity.
And we've gained year-to-date share in the Wholesome Snack businesses in Brazil and Colombia.
The Pringles business continued to perform well and we've launched Pringles Tortilla (sic) [Tortillas] in the region.
And our initiative to drive sales in high-frequency stores continues to go well.
We've gained year-to-date share in this channel in Mexico Colombia and Brazil and have increased the number of stores we're reaching at a double digit rate.
There's a lot of opportunity in these channels in both the Latin American and Asian regions and that will continue to be a focus for us next year.
The team in Latin America is expecting strong fourth quarter results due to the high-frequency store program the continued impact of granolas and mueslis new bars launching in Brazil new Special K Protein in Mexico and some significant brand-building events across the region.
Plans for 2016 include more great innovation and brand-building events.
However as you know a number of countries are facing a slowdown in their economies.
And while we have plans to deal with this and the impact of transactional foreign exchange it will remain a headwind in 2016.
Let's turn to Slide 19 and our Asia Pacific business.
We saw strong double digit growth in the Asian business in the third quarter.
The Indian business posted double digit growth driven by single-serve packs and strong results from the core brands.
The Japanese business grew at a double digit rate as the result of continued popularity of granola and packaging innovation.
And the Korean business also grew at a double digit rate.
The business in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Pringles business both posted high single digit sales growth.
On Pringles specifically we continued to see great results in the region and our activity and investment have gained traction.
In addition our new Pringles plant in Malaysia is performing well.
The overall Asia Pacific segment posted currency-neutral comparable sales growth of 2% in the quarter.
The Australian business continues to be difficult.
And we also faced the impact of differences in the year-on-year timing of promotions in the quarter.
We expect declines in Australia to moderate in the fourth quarter.
And we have plans for further improvement in 2016.
Let's turn to Slide 20 and comments on our JV's in Asia.
Although they're not reported in Asia Pacific's results both the Chinese and Nigerian businesses posted very strong growth in the quarter.
In China both Cereal and Snacks grew at a double digit rate and we gained share in the Cereal category.
As you know we announced in September our investment in West Africa.
Specifically we announced the acquisition of a 50% stake in Multipro a premier sales and distribution company in Nigeria and Ghana.
And we announced the creation of a snacks and breakfast joint venture across West Africa with Tolaram Africa one of the largest food companies in the region.
We are very excited about the investment that this region is experiencing explosive growth with a growing middle class.
Nigeria alone has the largest population and economy in all of Africa.
At the time of the transaction we announced that the total company sales from Multipro were expected to be approximately $750 million in 2015.
Just to put that into perspective our Asia Pacific business posted total sales of slightly less than $1 billion last year so you can see the transformational impact this acquisition has on the region and why we're so excited about the potential.
Amit Banati our head of Asia Pacific will discuss both partnerships in more detail at the Investor Day but I will say that we're very pleased to have these great relationships in place.
And we're confident that they will be significant contributors to total corporate results in the years to come.
Let's turn to the summary on page 21.
Results for net sales growth and operating profit were in line with our expectations and we continue to build momentum.
Currency-neutral comparable net sales increased by 1%.
And currency-neutral comparable operating profit excluding the impact of resetting incentive compensation increased by approximately 6% and we also increased guidance for full-year cash flow.
In the quarter we saw improving trends in our U.S.
Cereal business.
We saw sequential improvement in our U.S.
Snacks business.
The Kashi brand continued to improve as we expected.
Our International business continued to perform well.
And importantly our productivity programs continue to generate significant savings.
And we're on track with both Project K and our zero-based budgeting initiatives.
These two cost savings programs in conjunction with our underlying productivity programs give us a significant amount of visibility into future results.
So as I said we are building momentum.
With good performance in the third quarter and our visibility into increased efficiency give us confidence that we'll meet our targets for 2015 2016 and beyond.
We recognize that we have a lot to do but we have a plan.
We know we can achieve our targets.
Our employees around the world are doing great work.
And as always I'd like to end by thanking them all.
And now I'll open up it up for questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
A question about the promotional activity; it seems that as measured by Nielsen the in-store promotional activity has been declining in Cereal as it has been for many categories.
Why do you think that is? And do you see promotion spending continuing to come out of the category? And is there perhaps a shift away from traditional in-store promotions towards other stuff like consumer marketing and digital? Thanks.
We continue to see good merchandising performance behind our categories in-store.
We have categories that do respond to that sort of merchandising activity.
I think you have seen on an aggregate basis some merchandising reduction.
That actually is more tailored to what a small number of customers are doing in the area of specific clean store policies.
In fact we're lapping one of those larger customers lapping that initiative sort of the middle of this year.
So that should have less of an impact as we go forward.
We are ultimately though focused on winning with the consumer through brand-building through innovation through engaging the consumer directly but we feel good about our in-store merchandising performance.
And then just a follow-up on your innovation comments you said that you'll have double the innovation or have double the innovation activity heading into 2016 than you had in 2015.
In food we're never really sure if more means better when it comes to innovation.
Are there reasons why you feel like your innovation will be more incremental or are there ways that you're changing your innovation process to make it more incremental? Thanks.
Great question David.
Let me just clarify that double the weight of innovation is actually a comment only for Kashi in 2016 here in the U.S.
And we're doing a lot to invest back into our innovation process as a company to improve the performance of our innovation.
We established our global category teams so we'd have a longer-term innovation platform coming out of those global category teams.
In the case of Kashi specifically pulling the team back in La Jolla back in California and allowing them to focus on the longer-term innovation to move at a faster pace as is required in that particular segment of the market is showing dividends.
I think you've seen that in the Kashi business performance improving and also in that greater innovation coming through next year.
And also as you think about innovation I think you can see more from us in the area of packaging as we try to hit the right package-price-product offering by channel by market.
So I think as you look at our innovation pipeline going forward it's both a stronger pipeline in terms of we have a longer-term pipeline with our global category teams and it's a more diverse pipeline in that it's not just more food.
It's food.
It's packaging.
It's in the core parts of the business as well as in the leading segments of the business as well.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I guess my question is if maybe can give us a little more color on how you're progressing on zero-based budgeting you mentioned that you have better visibility into next year.
And I would imagine that the ZBB efforts are starting to gain some momentum.
Can you give us some updates on what areas of your cost structure you're focusing it on and where you expect to see the biggest benefits? Sure Rob.
So our initiative is progressing well in North America.
And as we said earlier we would be rolling that out across the globe as well.
We have not started that work yet but that should be beginning in 2016.
We continue to have very good visibility to the $100 million of savings that we've communicated on zero-based budgeting and that's specifically in North America.
And you may recall we said we're interrogating around $2 billion worth of discretionary spend.
Now that is just $2 billion within North America.
So far we've identified a number of things.
We're looking across supply chain costs supply chain overhead distribution costs and SG&amp;A as well.
We've noted a number of areas around our policies and practices based on benchmarks that we have from this process.
An example is travel and people-related costs.
We found that we're investing or spending more money in some of those areas and there's a great opportunity to pull back.
We've interrogated professional services as well.
And we're looking into brand-building as well and dissecting our brand-building investment both from a working perspective and a non-working perspective.
One other thing that I do want to point out as well as we get into 2016 and we provide more information on our guidance we are unlikely to provide guidance around our gross margin percent and our brand-building percent to sales as well.
Now let me assure you both of these are absolutely critical to our business.
And we remain focused on investing behind our brands and building our brands and maintaining a strong gross margin.
But the advent of zero-based budgeting and how that may change the complexion of our profit and loss statement as well as the changing landscape how you build brands the shift of TV media to digital media as well and the investments we're putting back in our food make it difficult for us to provide specifics on those items.
I'm sorry Ron.
You said that it's going to be more difficult to provide gross margin guidance going forward? What I'm saying is we won't be providing those details going forward.
Obviously we have a plan and understand where our gross margin and our brand-building are going but we won't be providing those details because of the shifting landscape as a result of our zero-based budgeting initiative.
All right.
I'll get back in the queue.
The next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess a couple of questions with the understanding you're going to have the Analyst Day shortly.
I guess first I guess this is kind of after the quarter closed but one of your competitors had a pretty big recall with their biggest brand.
And I'm wondering if you're seeing a benefit to that or has the category overall been hurt by that? Maybe you could just go a little bit into that.
And I have some follow-ups.
Well Eric I think we're seeing a very strong performance from the U.S.
Cereal category.
It's improved significantly over the last couple of years.
Total consumption is relatively flat.
And within our business we're seeing a significant improvement within our core brands also in the two brands that we've struggled with over the last few years Special K and Kashi.
You're seeing significantly better performance from those brands as we go forward.
So I don't think that particular event that you're pointing to has had a meaningful impact on the category or our business.
I think it's good for us all to get past those sorts of events.
And I think you're seeing a better longer-term build in the performance of the category over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then I guess Ron in answer to Rob's question maybe can you quantify at least this year how much more you're spending in terms of the quality food initiative like the higher-cost ingredients? Like how much is that let's say limiting your gross margins? So we haven't quantified that specifically Eric but it's probably 20 basis points or 30 basis points of impact that we're seeing within our business depending upon which quarter you're looking at based on the roll-out of granolas and mueslis across the globe the renovation we're doing around Special K and some of our other foods as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last thing I know this is small but I noticed in the release that you restated $3 million of sales due to restructuring and other items.
Why would sales be restated as a function of a restructuring? In some cases Eric we are having to change our foods.
It's requiring us to pull turn product from shelf and re-slot new product in its place.
So these are listing fees in some cases associated with them.
Inc.</span></strong> So you felt that was part of a like a restructuring? It is specifically related to the Project K network initiatives that we're conducting.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right I'll pass it on.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everybody.
Morning Andrew.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I know that you've talked about continuing to expect your sales and EBIT growth in line with your long-term algorithm in 2016.
And I guess for the first time you provided the EPS part of that for next year which I guess at 6% to 8% is maybe slightly below what the long-term algorithm has been.
And maybe it's just splitting hairs and conservatism or just maybe it's a higher tax rate but trying to get a sense of why you wouldn't be getting maybe the typical below-the-line benefit that you'd expect.
And if you can provide some perspective on that that would be helpful.
Absolutely Andrew.
So we do have an expectation for slightly higher interest costs with the potential for rates moving higher into next year.
In addition we're seeing lower than normal tax rate this year as a result of tax planning initiatives that we've undertaken.
We communicated a 26% to 27% rate for 2015.
So we do expect that rate to tick up slightly.
And then offsetting that are the normal share repurchases that we'll conduct over the course of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks for that.
And then yeah thanks for the clarity on the impact to gross margin of food quality and such.
I guess I'm trying to get a sense and I don't think I guess you'll be giving guidance on this per se next year but I guess directionally from a gross margin standpoint with the favorability around some commodity movements of late all of the ongoing productivity you have the Project K the ZBB impact which ramps up dramatically next year shift to digital and such I guess I'm trying get a sense I would think gross margin directionally would accelerate quite a bit year-over-year versus the flat result that we're likely to see this year.
Is there anything that I'm missing in how I'm thinking about that? In terms of our gross margin performance for next year obviously we haven't quantified it yet.
And you're right.
We are seeing some deflation in some of the exchange-traded commodities.
Now obviously that's just the commodity aspect of that item.
We are seeing inflation though in other commodity elements.
For example fruits nuts cocoa rice are escalating.
And we're seeing higher distribution costs and slightly higher factory costs but we're being able to offset that with our strong productivity initiatives and Project K savings as well.
So overall at this point in time we're expecting our input costs to be relatively neutral offset by our productivity.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
The next question comes from Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thanks very much.
I wanted to ask about the Cereal category.
John you mentioned you'd seen some improved trends there.
And it's a simple question but it touches on a lot of things.
What's allowing for improved trends in both the category and for yourself? Is it a change in the number of occasions like you're losing fewer occasions? Or is it a change – and I'm talking about the category level here – in share meaning like are more people eating breakfast or maybe less worse change in fewer people eating breakfast? Or is it that Greek yogurt or other breakfast options kind of or maybe Foodservice kind of reached a high watermark and it's ceasing to eat into Cereal's lordly share advantage in the breakfast occasion? Thanks very much.
Thanks Jonathan yeah we've seen on breakfast we've actually seen consumption of breakfast at home growing so it's not the issue around QSRs et cetera.
It's been more how we compete at that breakfast occasion at home.
If you go back to the 2000s obviously our business in the category grew quite strongly.
And what was growing our business at that time were the adult cereals.
If you look at what's happened here more recently those adult cereals particularly Special K and Kashi went quite soft.
By the end of the third quarter we actually saw our adult cereals return back to growth.
You're seeing Special K return to growth behind movement and positioning.
It got caught in a little bit more of a diet positioning towards a wellness positioning now with new foods coming out that support that.
Kashi between the team in California ramping up the innovations staying on trend with foods that are evolving and emerging in the marketplace and you're seeing how the innovation is starting to drive that business back to a better place.
And then even a business like Raisin Bran where we have a cranberry innovation some great advertising that's on-trend and we're seeing double digit growth in that brand.
So I think a lot of this has to do with what we are doing to drive our business.
And quite frankly the category performance is a combination of what manufacturers do rather than a determinate of how all manufacturers do it so if all the manufacturers do better the category does better.
Sure just a follow up on your answer there John you said the adult cereals came back.
I don't know how you slice and dice what's an adult cereal for a competitor but do you get the sense that's true for your competitors as well that it's that adult segment that's come back or is it just better execution do you think at Special K? I guess I'm more focused specifically on our business.
I'd say our business is doing better and that's what's driving certainly our section of the adult segment.
And to your point it is difficult on some of those brands to define what's an adult brand what's a kid brand since roughly half the consumption in the kid brands are actually adult consumption but when we have adult-targeted brands like this like Raisin Bran and Special K we've seen those businesses come back.
Great.
Thanks very much Thank you.
The next question comes from Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Alexia So a couple of quick questions U.S.
Snacks we obviously read in the press that you might've been interested in a Snacks acquisition recently.
That doesn't seem to be going to you at this point.
How are you thinking about maybe building out your U.S.
Snacks business to get more out of your DSD system in the U.S.? And then I have a follow-up.
Well let me step back a bit and just provide some thoughts on M&amp;A in general since you had that entry point into the Snacks question.
On M&amp;A we are obviously looking at a number of opportunities around the world.
You've seen the company execute three transactions in just the last several months: two acquisitions in Egypt the largest cookie cracker company there and the largest cereal business there; and then our West Africa and Nigeria investment.
And all three of those are great investments combination of Snacks emerging markets et cetera and so as you think about our M&amp;A strategy obviously the intersection of Snacks and emerging markets is a very interesting place for us to play.
We also would look at M&amp;A in a market like North America in natural and other areas that would be good bolt-ons to our business.
On Snacks itself we have an outstanding DSD platform.
It's a company-owned DSD platform.
It's an advantaged platform compared to a lot of other DSD platforms out there.
And we believe we have an opportunity to keep driving that platform over time.
And we're focused on improving the hit rate of innovation in this business.
We're seeing good growth in Crackers behind Cheez-Its.
We have opportunities in Cookies.
We've got some work to do in Wholesome Snacks.
So we had some good progress there on the DSD business.
And then as a follow up can I just calibrate my expectations from what success in U.S.
Cereals looks like in 2016? I know you were feeling pressure earlier in the year to really get the U.S.
Cereal business back on track by the end of the year.
It seems as though you're talking in a very positive way about it.
You've got a lot of innovation coming down the pipe but the U.S.
Morning Foods organic sales are still down 2.6%.
So is it enough just to be gaining share in a category that's down or what's the color? What's the description of what good looks like for next year? I would say Alexia in a market like the U.S.
given the performance of the category in recent years if we could stabilize the U.S.
Cereal business in a stable category I'd define that as success.
So in the context of the Kellogg Company portfolio and hitting our low single digit sales growth target next year we don't need to see growth from the U.S.
Cereal business.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Morning Ken.
Morning.
Just two follow ups to questions one is you did say that the environment is deflationary.
How do you think that's going to play out in the promotional environment and which categories are most insulated and which ones are most affected by it? And my next point I just want to make sure I got it right is you pointed out that sales may be at the lower end of next year's guidance.
Can you talk about why you're already there before the year starts? Thanks Ken great questions.
So on the potential deflationary impact on cost of goods and how could that play out in the marketplace if you look across our categories our categories are very rational.
They compete more on the quality of brands on the quality of innovation on ideas on in-store execution.
They are intensely competitive categories but they're ones that tend to be fairly stable in pricing over time.
So I feel good about the dynamic there and don't see that necessarily being disrupted.
On the question of sales guidance I think there's maybe some confusion there.
If you look at the company we are building momentum.
Last year our internal sales were down around 2%.
This year we're around flat.
And next year we're giving guidance of 1% to 3%.
So if you drew a straight line through that trend line you get down 2% flat say up 2%.
The point we tried to make on our guidance for next year is we don't need to deliver 2% 3% sales growth in order to deliver the 4% to 6% operating profit growth.
Our comment there was about the strength and visibility we have into our productivity programs.
And so we believe that if we hit even the low-end of our sales guidance or even if we were flat on our sales performance next year we still have the visibility in those productivity programs to hit the 4% to 6% operating profit range.
If I add to that if I'm thinking about our guidance for next year and you asked me the question where is the risk within that guidance I think the risk is more on the sales guidance than in the operating profit guidance is another way of getting at what we're trying to say.
Great.
I appreciate the clarity.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning Bryan.
I've just two questions; just the first one is on the FX in Latin America.
And I guess in this quarter Venezuela had a pretty meaningful impact.
I think it was like a 61% adjustment to sales and 71% adjustment to operating income.
Is that like a catch-up one-time thing or will we have a few quarters of like meaningful negative effect from FX? Yeah good question Bryan.
Thanks for allowing me to clarify.
That will impact us as we go through the back half of this year.
So this is the translational impact associated with remeasuring Venezuela from the 6.3 bolivar to the U.S.
dollar to effectively 200 bolivar to the U.S.
dollar.
So you'll see an impact for that translational change through the back half of 2015 and into the first half of 2016 as well.
And roughly same order of magnitude; is that right? Will depend on the size of the business but yes a little bit lower as we move into the front half of next year.
Okay.
And then John the second question is just around Special K.
And I don't know how easy this is to answer but as the starting point in terms of rebuilding the brand one of the things was to go after the positioning and kind of positioning away from a weight loss brand to being more of a just more generally healthy brand.
How much of the sort of the improvement in Special K has been that that positioning is actually occurring so consumers are reacting to sort of a different positioning away from weight loss? And if you could also within that just talk about how the core Special K business has done ex the new products? Great question.
I think we are seeing the brand make that transition to more of a wellness brand weight wellness brand then a diet brand.
The turnaround in Special K of course is not just that positioning in isolation.
It's also changing the food in some cases to be consistent with that positioning.
I think where we've made changes to our food we've seen even more progress than where we have some legacy foods in place.
A lot of food changes though are not just new foods in terms of innovation.
They're renovating the current foods.
And so when you ask the question well how much is that new versus the base? Take Special K Red Berries.
Adding more red berries to Special K and reinforcing the berries in there really has had a very positive impact on the Special K business in the U.S.
And so it's hard for me to tease apart what is food and what is non-food-related.
But the good news is we're definitely seeing people respond to that program not just here in the U.S.
but also in Canada and we're seeing the brand do better.
All right.
Thank you.
Look forward to seeing you in a couple of weeks.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for the questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just two questions first on brand-building I know you called out Europe specifically as seeing increased spending during the quarter but can you just update us for Q3 and maybe year-to-date how brand-building overall is trending constant currency or as a percent of sales and how you see this sort of trending into 2016 as Project K savings build how dependent that may be on how sequential sales trends evolve from here? It's a great question.
It's probably worth spending a little bit of time talking about brand-building.
Obviously brand-building is critical to the long-term performance of the Kellogg Company.
And the strength of our brands is something that we're absolutely focused on.
And you can see that in that we have industry-leading levels of brand-building and we're committed to those brands.
At the same time we are seeing a transformational change in how you build brands.
Think about the transformational changes we've seen in the past from print to radio to TV and now to social mobile digital et cetera.
As you go through each of these transformational changes the amount and how you spend brand-building fundamentally changes.
And so as we see people skipping more ads on TV as we see people particularly millennials using their mobile devices social media et cetera having a larger impact we have to change our brand-building model.
And as we do this we have to both identify what's not working as well as it has in the past and where should we invest more money.
Now we're seeing very good ROIs on digital-type spend so we're seeing more of our money migrate in that direction.
But because of this sea change it's very hard for us to say where our brand-building is going in the future.
I certainly feel like we spend enough money on brand-building.
And so as we look say into 2016 we will have zero-based budgeting savings in brand-building.
Some or all of that will get reinvested back into brand-building but I don't think we need to continue to increase our brand-building as such.
And so our brand-building as a percentage of sales may be flat may even decline slightly but don't take that as a lack of commitment to brand-building.
Take that as a recognition that how you build brands how you engage with consumers as they engage with media differently is changing at such a pace here that we have to reevaluate our entire model and continue to push the edge on how much we need to spend to build these great brands.
Thanks John.
That's helpful.
And then secondly I just wanted to come back to the comparability issues you've been facing in the Cracker category specifically on the Cracker Chips because it feels like we've been talking about it for a few quarters.
We probably should now be starting to approach the point where we could start lapping some of those distribution losses.
How are you thinking about the ability of that dynamic to be a tailwind next year or should we simply be looking for the headwind to moderate or normalize? So we have renovated our Special K Cracker Chip business.
And that has resulted in velocity stabilizing so now we're just lapping lost distribution.
There may be parts of that business that also get eliminated over time.
We come back to a stronger core number of SKUs.
So it's certainly becoming less of a headwind.
It's been a pretty major headwind across this year.
So it'll probably be there but to a lesser degree in 2016.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning folks.
Thank you for the question.
Morning Jason.
I want to come back to the question on Venezuela.
Can you give us first can you quantify? I'm not sure how Spillane got his math on this one.
I probably just haven't read in the detail he has on this one but what the bottom-line hit was on Venezuela translation this quarter? And also how much the pricing in Venezuela contributed to organic sales growth or said differently what would LatAm organic sales look like if Venezuela was not in the base? Yeah so first of all in Venezuela let me remind you of how that remeasurement has impacted our results.
And then as well there's a translational impact.
So in the second quarter we took a significant charge as a result of our revaluing our balance sheet.
We took a small charge as well in the third quarter for about $0.41 of earnings per share impact.
It's more the transactional impact of remeasuring that business.
Also in the third quarter we would've taken the translational impact of remeasuring that business to the 200 bolivar to the U.S.
dollar.
And that's roughly around $0.04 or so of earnings per share impact.
And as I said in terms of a sales impact it was a little less than half of that 10 point impact to sales.
As you think about what's happening in Latin America generally there's no question that Venezuela drove the sales growth you saw in the third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis local currency growth ex-Venezuela would be up low single digits.
But it's worth remembering within that that our Pringles business is a U.S.
dollar-denominated business.
And so what you're seeing there is actually U.S.
dollar growth in Pringles as opposed to true local currency growth.
Local currency Pringles was up strong double digits but that obviously translates to very low U.S.
dollar performance given where the exchange rates have moved.
So it's actually kind of hard within our results to get back to a pure local currency ex-Venezuela for Latin America.
What I would say in Latin America is we are seeing a slowdown in economies in Latin America in general and in our business as well.
We are gaining share in key businesses such as Brazil Mexico Colombia.
As we go into 2016 we expect this business to continue to be challenged a little bit with the macroeconomic headwinds of the exchange rate movements and how that's impacting consumer demand in the region.
Gary we have time for one more question please.
The next question comes from Eric Larson with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for sneaking me in guys.
I appreciate it.
Just a follow-up on the headwinds that you're facing kind of in the U.S.
business one is Kashi which you're starting to transform and renovate.
And the other obviously is in the cracker chips side where you're up against some difficult comps which was a previous question just recently.
If you exclude the negative impact of Kashi on U.S.
Morning Foods and the Cracker Chip business in your U.S.
Snack business what would your organic sales growth rates have been? Eric I don't have that math to hand.
But I think it is fair to say that we have some headwinds this year that in some respects masks our underlying performance and as we go into 2016 with those headwinds.
And I think that's another reason why we have confidence that we are building momentum and will be a better position as we go into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Maybe we'll drill down that further in your Analyst Day.
And then the next question is probably for Ron.
Ron obviously you're generating more free cash this year.
I know that this year is your peak cash spending for Project K.
You've got some more I think in 2016 and 2017.
But $350 million of cash costs this year and maybe you gave this number.
I don't have it.
What are your cash costs expected for Project K next year? What would be additive to cash next year from just lower cash costs for Project K 2016? Sure.
So first Project K after-tax cash for the entire four-year project is about $1 billion.
That includes capital spending and the other elements of cash to execute the program.
More than half of that will have occurred through 2015 business.
So we were well over $200 million last year approximately $350 million this year.
So our cash requirements are a bit less as we move into 2016 and 2017 and then closing up in 2018.
Just a thing and I think it's important to note in both 2014 and 2015 we focused on our working capital improvements and essentially we have been able to offset that impact of the increased cash for Project K through working capital improvements and specifically the supplier-financing initiative.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Simon Burton for any closing remarks.
Okay everyone.
Thanks very much for joining us.
We'll be around for the next few days to answer any questions.
And anybody who still wants to register for the Analyst Day in two and a half or so weeks please get a hold of IR.
We'll take care of getting you signed up.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Kellogg Company Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All the lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer period.
[Operation Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Simon Burton Vice President of Investor Relations for the Kellogg Company.
Mr.
Burton you may begin sir.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone and thank you too for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results.
I'm joined here by John Bryant CEO and Chairman; and by Ron Dissinger Chief Financial Officer.
The press release and slides that support our remarks this morning are posted on our website at www.kelloggcompany.com.
And as you're aware certain statements made today such as projections for Kellogg Company's future performance including earnings per share net sales margin operating profit interest expense tax rate cash flow brand building upfront costs investments and inflation are forward-looking statements.
Actual results could be materially different from those projected.
For further information concerning factors that could cause these results to differ please refer to the second slide of this presentation as well as to our public SEC filings.
As a reminder a replay of today's conference call will be available by phone through Monday February 15.
The call will also be available via webcast which will be archived for at least 90 days.
And now I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Simon and thank you everyone for joining us.
We are pleased to have reported results that have met our expectations in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We saw good growth in both currency neutral comparable net sales and operating profit and the individual performances of many of our businesses were strong with currency neutral comparable sales growth in U.S.
Cereal U.S.
Specialty Channels Europe Latin America and Asia Pacific.
We continue to build momentum and trends continue to improve.
And importantly as you've seen in the public data our consumption increased in the U.S.
Cereal business in the fourth quarter and we gained share.
Obviously this continued momentum had a positive impact on overall results in both the fourth quarter and for the full year.
The broad-based quarterly performance led to the underlying full-year currency neutral comparable net sales and operating profit results that were in line with our expectation.
2015's performance represented an improvement from 2014's results and we're continuing to build momentum in 2016.
Comparable currency neutral earnings were $3.81 per share at the high end of our guidance range and full year cash flow of $1.1 billion was also in line with our recently increased estimates and we have excellent earnings visibility as we continue to make great progress executing Project K and implementing zero-based budgeting.
So we met or exceeded our targets for 2015 and the performance we achieved set a great base for growth and the momentum we've built provides us with confidence as we enter the year.
So now let's turn to slide four and more detail on our expectations for 2016.
The momentum we built in 2015 was the result of better innovation better support better execution and some of the visibility provided by our cost savings programs.
And we expect this level of execution and the momentum to continue in 2016.
Specifically we're very pleased with the momentum that we built in the U.S.
Cereal business.
We ended the year with fourth quarter consumption growth of more than 2% for the Kellogg brand and a share gain of 70 basis points and results in December were even better.
I'll talk about this in more detail in a few minutes.
The Project K and zero-based budgeting programs will each generate $100 million in savings in 2016.
That's $200 million in total flexibility that we'll use to continue to drive top-line growth and increase margins.
Importantly as you heard at the Investor Day a couple of months ago we're excited about the plans we have to drive growth in North America and in each of the international regions and we will remain focused on executing those plans throughout 2016.
We're investing in the top-line by improving our food by introducing great new innovation across categories and businesses by increasing the geographic expansion of Pringles by improving sales capabilities and by focusing on other activities designed to help us win where the shopper shops.
So we're pleased that all this has put us back on our long-term growth algorithm in 2016.
Specifically we still expect low-single-digit revenue growth mid-single-digit operating profit growth and earnings per share growth of 6% to 8% all on a currency neutral comparable basis.
Ron will discuss this in a minute.
We're excited about our plans across all the areas of our business and are very encouraged by the impact our actions are making.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ron for a discussion of our financial results.
Thanks John and good morning.
Slide five shows financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year.
Fourth quarter currency neutral comparable net sales increased by 4.2%.
This was ahead of our expectations and included the impact of pricing actions in Venezuela.
We also saw improving trends and sales growth in our business excluding the impact of Venezuela.
We always had anticipated approximately 1 point of sales growth benefit from Venezuela in our guidance for the full year.
The accelerated pricing drove an additional point and resulted in full year sales growth of 1.2%.
Currency neutral comparable operating profit increased by 2.8% in the fourth quarter.
This included a headwind from the rebasing of incentive compensation of 4%.
So growth in operating profit in the fourth quarter would have been approximately 7% excluding the rebasing of incentive comp.
Full year currency neutral comparable operating profit decreased by 2.3% at the high end of our guidance range of between down 2% to 4%.
Full year operating profit would have also increased by approximately 1% excluding the impact of rebasing incentive comp.
Reported operating profit for the full year was $1.1 billion and for the quarter was a loss of $39 million including a non-cash mark-to-market charge for pensions of $393 million.
This was primarily driven by the impact that asset returns had on our pension plans but it is worth noting that even at historically low discount rates our pension plans are almost 90% funded.
You will see more detail regarding items affecting comparability in the Appendices to the presentation.
Comparable earnings were $0.79 per share in the quarter and these results include $0.06 of currency headwind.
Currency neutral comparable earnings were $0.85 per share for the quarter an increase of 1.2%.
Full year comparable earnings were $3.53 per share including $0.28 of impact from currencies.
So as a result full year currency neutral comparable earnings were $3.81 per share at the high end of our guidance range and flat to last year.
Slide six shows the components of the full year and quarterly sales growth.
Overall currency neutral comparable net sales increased by 1.2% for the full year.
We delivered double-digit growth in Asia and strong growth in Latin America.
Pringles also delivered another strong year of growth across the globe and our U.S.
Cereal business continues to see improving trends and posted good growth in the fourth quarter.
Price/mix increased by 1.9% as a result of growth in Latin America which was driven primarily by the impact of Venezuela.
We also saw price/mix improvement in several North America businesses and in European Snacks.
While volume declined for the year driven by developed Cereal and U.S.
Snacks we saw good growth in the global Pringles business and in the emerging market Cereal business.
And as you can see on the chart the impact of 2014's 53rd week reduced reported sales growth by 1.3% and the impact of foreign exchange lowered reported sales growth by 7.5% more than half of which was due to the mid-year re-measurement in Venezuela.
As a reminder our joint ventures in China and Africa aren't included in these numbers; however we saw very good rates of growth from them in the fourth quarter.
Slide seven shows details regarding our fourth quarter and full year currency neutral comparable gross profit and gross margin.
Comparable gross margin for the full year was down slightly and in line with our expectations.
It is important to note that gross margin for the quarter and the full year has been impacted by accelerating levels of inflation in Venezuela.
Of course we were able to price to manage the profit of the business to our plan but gross margin deteriorated.
Excluding the impact of Venezuela gross margin increased by 20 basis points for the full year and by 30 basis points for the fourth quarter.
Slide eight shows the fourth quarter operating profit performance for each of the regions.
North America's currency neutral comparable operating profit increased by 3%.
This was due to gross margin expansion resulting from lower input costs and savings from the Project K initiative in the region.
This is partially offset by the impact of rebasing incentive compensation which lowered North America's operating profit growth by more than 5% in the quarter.
We're pleased with the full year operating profit growth of 4% in Europe.
Results for the fourth quarter were due to the timing of investment in brand building and some discrete costs.
Without these discrete costs operating profit would have increased by approximately 5%.
Operating profit in Latin America increased by 46% due to the impact of Venezuela on the region's results.
In addition we saw good results in Mexico good overhead management and a favorable impact from the timing of investment.
Operating profit decreased by 13% in the Asia Pacific region.
We do continue to invest in sales growth in Cereal and Snacks in this region.
This includes investment in our brands and our people.
In addition we saw higher cost of goods in the quarter due to the timing of spend across the year.
Slide nine shows our full year cash flow.
Full year operating cash flow after capital expenditure was approximately $1.1 billion $100 million higher than our estimate as we began 2015.
We're very pleased with this result as it includes the cash required for Project K of approximately $330 million.
We offset this use of cash with the excellent execution of our payables initiative.
And importantly in 2015 we returned more than $1.4 billion to share owners through dividends and share repurchases.
Slide 10 shows our industry leading core working capital as a percentage of net sales and the improvement we've made over the last year.
You can see that we ended the year with rolling 12-month core working capital as a percentage of sales of 6.2%.
The significant year-over-year improvement is the result of excellent work that we've done on our payables initiative and we'll continue our efforts to free up cash from our balance sheet as we proceed through 2016.
Slide 11 shows our currency neutral comparable guidance for the full year 2016 which has not changed.
We continue to expect that net sales will increase at a rate between 1% and 3%.
Now while our original guidance always included approximately 1% of sales growth from the impact of inflation in Venezuela our latest outlook includes more pricing to offset inflation in the country.
Obviously this is hard to predict but it is possible that full year comparable net sales growth could exceed our guidance range due to these changes in Venezuela.
It's worth noting that even excluding the total impact of Venezuela we still expect to be in our original guidance range of between 1% and 3%.
We anticipate deflation in cost of goods sold driven by material costs in combination with savings from Project K and zero-based budgeting we expect improved gross margin.
Of course this excludes the impact of Venezuela given the inflation-driven volatility.
Our material input costs are approximately 70% covered at this time.
Operating profit is still expected to grow at between 4% and 6% and we also still expect that currency neutral comparable earnings per share will increase between 6% and 8%.
Our outlook includes a higher tax rate due to comparisons in 2015 and slightly higher interest expense.
Specifically we expect interest expense to be in a range between $235 million and $245 million reflecting an anticipated increase in rates and slightly higher levels of debt.
The comparable tax rate is expected to be between 27% and 28%.
Our board has approved a share repurchase program of $1.5 billion which will run through 2017 and we still expect to repurchase approximately $700 million to $750 million of shares in 2016.
As always our expectations for sales operating profit and earnings per share exclude the impact of items affecting comparability.
We expect that full year operating cash flow will be approximately $1.1 billion.
This includes our expectation that full year capital spending will be in a range between 4% and 5% of sales to support growth in our Pringles business and Project K.
Slide 12 shows our full year earnings per share walk.
We currently expect that currency translation could have an impact of as much as $0.10 per share in 2016.
This includes approximately $0.04 for the translation of Venezuela results impacting the first half 2016.
We expect that integration costs from the transactions we did in Egypt and Nigeria in 2015 will be between $0.02 and $0.03 per share for the full year and we expect that incremental savings from Project K will be approximately $100 million for the full year approximately 75% to 80% of which will come through cost of goods.
We estimate that pre-tax P&amp;L costs for Project K and our zero-based budgeting implementation will be between $200 million and $250 million or approximately $0.40 to $0.50 per share.
Approximately half of this will be in cost of goods and it's important to note that both Project K and our zero-based budgeting initiative remain on track.
Finally our currency headwind is much more significant in the first quarter and the first half of the year and the increases in tax and interest expense also impact Q1 in the first half of the year.
So a simple way to think about our comparable earnings per share delivery including currency is that it will be delivered relatively evenly across the year.
And now I'll turn it back over to John for more detail regarding the operating segments.
Thanks Ron.
And now let's turn to slide 13 and the U.S.
Morning Foods business.
We saw goods results from the business in the fourth quarter with sales growth of 1.5%.
This was driven by very good results in our U.S.
Cereal business.
As you can see on the chart we gained share in 2015 and in the fourth quarter and had a great ending to the year in December.
As you saw last quarter our base sales performance was even better with growth all year and growth of 4% in the fourth quarter.
Importantly our Core Six brands led this growth: Raisin Bran Rice Krispies Frosted Flakes Mini-Wheats and Special K all saw consumption growth in the quarter with Special K posting high-single-digit growth.
This was driven primarily by changes to messaging and the renovation work we did last year on Red Berries and the good growth we saw all year on Raisin Bran s the result of the introduction of Raisin Bran with cranberries which showed good results for the entire franchise.
So we saw a lot of improvement across the year in the Morning Foods business.
We invested where we needed to and worked hard to improve the fundamentals.
We improved our brand building and the new products we launched; we invested in our foods; we put fun back in the box with Avengers and Disney Frozen-themed Cereals and we've quickly taken these learnings to other regions of the world as I'll discuss in a minute.
I'd like to thank Paul Norman who began this transformation and Craig Bahner who has continued it and the entire Morning Foods team.
The hard work is having significant impact.
And we're optimistic about this business as we enter 2016.
We said last year that we would improve the performance of Special K and we have as you can see on the graph on the slide.
And we're going to continue to drive sales in 2016 with the introduction much new products like Special K Nourish which you can also see pictured on the slide.
Special K Nourish is a cereal with positive nutrition and ingredients the consumer can see and the food includes fruits nuts and on trend grains like quinoa.
It's early but the initial response has been encouraging and we will continue to focus on all our Core Six brands as Craig discussed at the Investor Day in November.
We have a range of new products launching in 2016.
Some are on-trend foods such as Special K Nourish and Harvest Delights Mini-Wheats and some are fun additions including S'mores Disney Dory-themed Cereal and Orange Crushed Pop-Tarts.
So we saw improvement throughout 2015.
The Cereal business continued to improve as the year progressed and we saw the results of the investments and changes we made.
We're excited about the plans we have for 2016 and expect continued improvement.
Let's turn to slide 15 and our U.S.
Snacks business.
We again saw sequential improvement in consumption in the cookie cracker Wholesome Snack and Pringles businesses in the quarter.
We gained distribution in the overall cracker category as a result of innovation and Cheez-It continued to post good consumption growth and share gains in the fourth quarter as it has all year.
This was driven by contributions from new products including Cheez-It Extra Toasty and Grooves.
And as Deanie Elsner said at Day of K we will increase our focus and our investment on core brands in 2016 including Cheez-It.
We restaged Special K cracker chips during the year and we saw improved consumption performance as the year progressed due to renovations we made to the packaging and the food.
We did see continued declines in consumption of popcorn chips in the fourth quarter which had an impact on results.
However we expect the impact of the remaining SKUs to lessen as we progress through 2016.
We also gained distribution in the cookie business in the fourth quarter.
The sequential improvement in consumption I mentioned continued the trend we saw last quarter and was driven by Chips Deluxe Fudge Shoppe and Famous Amos.
These brands benefited from expanded distribution new products and increased in-store activity.
We have great brands in the category and we have some exciting new introductions planned for 2016 and we're also going to give the brands new support including the relaunch of advertising featuring the Keebler Elves.
We continue to see very good rates of consumption growth in Rice Krispies Treats in the Wholesome Snack category in the fourth quarter.
In addition the performance of our Special K bars has improved due to new products and renovation especially our new Special K Chewy Nut Bars.
The overall Pringles business posted good underlying growth in the Grocery and Convenience channels.
We continue to expand our global capacity and we have good plans across all our customers in 2016.
As a result we expect this business to post strong rates of growth for the year.
We are making progress in the Snacks business.
We are increasing investment and focusing it on our largest brands.
We're making sure that we have the right offerings in the right channels and we're expanding our offerings in the On-The-Go segment.
And as in all of the North American region we're using the flexibility we have to fund these changes and drive improving profitability.
Deanie and the whole team are making a real difference and we expect modest sales growth in the business in 2016 with sequential improvement across the year.
So let's turn to slide 16 and highlights from the U.S.
Specialty segment.
Comparable net sales in the Specialty Channels business increased in the quarter.
We saw growth in the Vending and Convenience Channels with net sales in the Convenience channel increasing at a high-single-digit rate.
We saw strong growth in Rice Krispies Treats in the Vending Channel and from Cheez-It and Pringles in the Convenience channel.
And we gained or maintained share in the Cereal cracker Wholesome Snack and salty snack categories within the channel for the full year.
We also gained share in the Foodservice channel in the cereal cracker and cookie categories in the fourth quarter.
The Specialty business also built a solid base in 2015 and our expectations are the team will drive good results in 2016.
Slide 17 shows the North America Other segment which includes the U.S.
Frozen Foods Kashi and Canadian businesses.
The Frozen Foods business saw continued growth from Eggo hand-held sandwiches in the quarter.
Consumption increased at a double-digit rate as it did all year.
Overall sales declined at a low-single-digit rate for the quarter driven by the impact of egg prices network improvements the timing of activity and the drawing down of inventories due to changes in packaging from boxes to bags.
This veggie food packaging conversion is going well but we expect sales to continue to be impacted in the first quarter of 2016 and for performance to improve over the balance of the year.
We saw continued sequential improvement in the Kashi business in the fourth quarter and the performance improved within the quarter.
The Cereal business improved due to the stabilization of distribution and the impact of an introduction of a new product in the second half of 2015 and the Bare Naked Granola brand posted double-digit consumption growth in the quarter.
The overall Kashi business the overall Kashi business sales were down at a low-single-digit rate in the quarter.
However we expect continued improvement in 2016 due to further improvement in distribution and the impact of a new focus on new products high in plant protein.
The Canadian business posted sales growth in the Cereal and Wholesome Snack businesses in the quarter.
For 2016 the Canadian team is planning introductions of new products and programs much like the rest of North American region.
But we'll continue to see an adverse impact from transactional foreign exchange.
Let's turn to slide 18 and our European business.
Sales growth across the region was 1.6% in the quarter with strong growth in the emerging markets.
The Pringles business also posted double-digit sales growth in the fourth quarter.
We grew share in both the UK and Germany in both the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Germany's performance were due to the introduction of Tortilla Pringles and the strong results we saw in the UK were due to some great activity including a successful Halloween themed promotion.
As you might imagine we have some exciting activity planned for Pringles in 2016 as well including soccer-themed activity planned to coincide with the EURO soccer tournament in the summer and the continued rollout of Tortilla Pringles in the region.
The Wholesome Snack business also posted sales growth in the fourth quarter.
This was due to better results in the UK driven in part by Disney-branded Snacks Mini Biscuits Crunchy Nut and Rice Krispies Squares.
In addition the Russian business did well and we have new foods coming out across the region in 2016.
The Cereal business in Europe declined in the fourth quarter due to challenges in the category in many of the countries.
However we improved our plans for Special K and Crunchy Nut in the UK saw good performance from Extra in Italy and invested behind Kellogg's branded granola in Germany.
And we recently launched the Ancient Legends brand in the region.
These are great products which include on-trend ingredients like spelt apples sultanas and chia seeds.
And we're also applying earnings from other parts of the world including the renovation of Special K Red Berries the launch of Special K Nourish and we're also adding more fun in the box.
So the fourth quarter was a successful one for the European business and we expect improvement to continue in 2016 as we launch great new products invest for growth and continue to focus on execution.
Slide 19 shows highlights from our Latin America business in the fourth quarter.
Total currency neutral comparable net sales again increased at a double-digit rate primarily due to the impact of Venezuela.
We saw sales growth in Mexico of approximately 4% driven by great performance in the Cereal business.
We gained share in the Cereal category in the latest public data and we saw improved performance from our adult-oriented cereals.
We also gained share in Brazil in the quarter and for the year.
These gains were partially the result of parent brand innovation and support.
We launched Ancient Grains in Brazil in Q4 and in the first quarter of 2016 in the Andean region and we also have Special K Protein and granola with quinoa planned for introduction.
Sales in the region's Snack business also increased in the quarter.
This growth resulted from better execution good innovation and strength in the Pringles business.
In fact the Pringles business grew at a double-digit rate.
Commercial innovation strong execution and promotional programs drove growth and we expect continued good performance from the brand in 2016.
And our focus on high frequency stores continues to drive results.
We've seen results in Convenience and Mini Super Stores in Mexico and in smaller mom and pop stores in Columbia and we've also had success driving sales growth through packaging initiatives designed to drive affordability and accessibility in various areas of the business.
We also had a good year in the Latin American business in 2015 despite challenging conditions driven by slowing economies and weakening currencies.
The team has done a great job managing through these situations and we expect continued good performance in 2016.
Let's turn to slide 20 and our Asia Pacific business.
Overall currency neutral comparable sales growth was 3.3% in the fourth quarter although this does not include the impact of the JVs in China and West Africa.
If we include the impact of those businesses we would have seen double-digit sales growth.
The Asian business posted double-digit currency neutral comparable sales growth in the quarter.
We saw double-digit sales growth in Japan driven by the continued growth of the granola category and the impact of new packaging.
We also saw double-digit growth in Korea and Southeast Asia.
The Pringles business in Asia Pacific grew volume at a double-digit rate.
We saw broad-based sales growth and share gains through the innovation and gains in distribution.
And the sub-Saharan African business also posted double digit currency neutral comparable sales growth.
We saw better execution and the benefit from the introduction of new products.
And as I mentioned the JV in West Africa also posted very strong growth.
The environment in Australia remained challenging with category sales continuing to decline.
However the granola and mueslis segments are going well and we have a plan to address the weakness in the overall Australian business in 2016.
We're also applying lessons learned from other parts of the business to Australia as we are in Europe.
We were pleased with the performance of the Asia Pacific region last year.
For the full year the region posted mid-single digit currency neutral comparable sales growth and including the impact of the JVs we would have achieved even higher growth.
The Asian business continues to perform very well and while we expect the environment in Australia to remain challenging we do expect another good year from this business.
We have plans in place and our execution remains strong.
Let's turn to Page 21 and the summary.
Our results in the fourth quarter were in line with or ahead of our expectations.
We saw good performance in net sales operating profit EPS and cash flow.
We built a strong base and generated momentum in 2015.
We told you we needed to improve the performance of the U.S.
Cereal business and we have.
We saw increased consumption and share gains in the quarter.
Special K is performing well and the Kashi Cereal business is responding to the introduction of new products and all of our international businesses posted sales growth in the fourth quarter and we're on track to meet our expectations for 2016.
We expect our momentum to continue.
We've made changes where we needed to; we've improved our support; we're launching exciting new products; we've improved our foods through renovation and we're executing well.
And we also had significant flexibility in 2016 from Project K and the zero-based budgeting initiative.
These two projects will give us an incremental $200 million of savings in 2016 that we will invest in revenue growth and use to improve margins.
So as we step back and look at where we are we built momentum in 2015.
We generated significant savings.
We launched a new strategy and we have a strong management team.
And as we enter 2016 we are absolutely committed to our algorithm to deliver results through sales operating profit and EPS and to building long-term earnings visibility.
So finally I'd like to thank all of the Kellogg employees around the world.
Your efforts are making a huge difference and none of this would be possible without them.
And now I'll open up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operation Instructions] And our first question comes from David Driscoll of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I wanted to ask just two questions.
First on Cereal can you talk about the impact of the U.S.
sales force structure and the head count increases and kind of how it's impacted your Cereal operations? And then specifically John I don't think you gave a sales growth.
I mean I think you said it for the Other segments but what is your sales growth expectations for 2016 U.S.
Morning Foods? And completely separately on ZBB just love to hear a little bit more about your initial learnings on the program and then for you just to kind of talk about the size this $100 million and kind of why is that the right number and what are you learning as you're going through the program? Great.
Thanks David.
I'll take the Cereal questions and the sales growth questions.
I'll hand ZBB over to Ron.
There's no question that the additional investments made in our sales organization as part of our Project K reinvestments absolutely helped the performance of our U.S.
Cereal business.
In addition our U.S.
Cereal business has been helped by some of the great food improvements we've made such as Special K Red Berries; some of the outstanding brand building programs we have such as the Raisin Bran program out there.
But in-store execution this year has been significantly better than in the past and I think the U.S.
sales reps U.S.
sales team have done a tremendous job of improving the in-store execution and driving the performance of that business.
Because of those changes because of the momentum we're seeing in the U.S.
Cereal business we actually are quite optimistic about 2016.
I think if you asked me back on the third quarter conference call our expectations for U.S.
Cereal we would have defined flat sales in 2016 as success.
Given the strength of U.S.
Cereal across 2015 we'd actually expect our U.S.
Cereal business to grow slightly a couple of percent in 2016.
The Morning Foods business obviously includes more things than just U.S.
Cereal.
There's the Pop-Tarts business in there which is also doing well and Health &amp; Wellness business.
But in aggregate I'd say that total business we expect to be up slightly in 2016.
So in terms of zero-based budgeting David first we're on track and the project is progressing well as we had said.
Now remember we're targeting over $2 billion worth of discretionary spend in North America for the start of the program and the areas that we're targeting are in general administrative overhead distribution costs brand building and supply chain overhead as well.
As we said we still expect to save $100 million in 2016 but what I would point out is that's not a ceiling in terms of our savings okay.
This is a multiyear program and we obviously believe that there are more opportunities for savings and then we're implementing a process to make sure that we can sustain those savings.
We are reinvesting some of those savings back into our business.
For example we're refining money in brand building.
We're taking some opportunity to reinvest back into brand building for revenue growth.
And as we've talked all along we're investing money back into our food as well.
Our international regions are underway.
So we have started the work in all of our international regions at this point in time.
Kicked off the process dissecting our spend identifying the opportunities as well.
Some specific areas or learnings in terms of where we're seeing savings.
So we look to cost of goods sold for example we've identified opportunities in our transportation and warehousing costs.
We've done a deep dive in professional and contracted services and found some money there.
And on people-related costs things like travel relocation things of that nature we've implemented policy changes to impact and benefit our cost structure.
As I mentioned we're finding some money in brand building as well around media non-working media as well as TV media.
But again we're investing some of that back into the business to drive revenue growth.
So overall project is progressing well remains on track.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Alexia Howard of Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Alexia.
I guess the main question that I have is around U.S.
Snacks.
There wasn't much color on it in the presentation and the operating profits looked to be down pretty sharply.
What's going on there? It's been weak for some time.
When do you think you're going to get better traction on that side? Thank you and I'll pass it on in the interest of time.
Thanks Alexia and great question.
You're right.
We've had a disappointing couple of years in U.S.
Snacks.
We've talked a lot in the context of our Cereal business about Special K.
The Special K has also had a fundamental impact to our Snacks business.
We've had a headwind from Special K in Snacks over the last couple of years.
You've seen that come through in our cracker business with Special K cracker chips.
It's come through in our Wholesome Snacks business with Special K Bars.
The good news is where we have renovated those foods similar to what we've done in Cereal we're seeing the business stabilize.
And so Special K cracker chips is stabilizing and Special K Chewy Nuts bars actually are doing quite well in the Wholesome Snacks business.
So if you look at that that headwind is still there to a degree but to a much less degree.
And as we go forward we expect some of the tailwinds in the business to become more evident.
So we've had strong growth in Cheez-It over the last several years.
We're seeing good growth in Pringles; we're seeing good growth in Rice Krispies Treats and Wholesome Snacks.
Our cookie business is stable the last couple of quarters.
So we've actually seen better trends within the business.
So as we go forward into 2016 we expect to return this business to top line growth although modest and we absolutely expect to return the business to bottom line growth.
So we recognize that's been an area of weakness for us.
Deanie and the team have taken actions to address it and we feel much better about our 2016 outlook and you're actually seeing it in the consumption data even in 2015 and the consumption in the fourth quarter for 2015 was stronger than the prior parts of the year and we're seeing sequential improvement as we go through the year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And I'll see you next week at CAGNY.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Good morning Jason.
Questions on margins.
First gross margin I noticed in the Appendix you cited about 130 basis point tailwind from FX.
Can you elaborate on the detail of what that is and give us some color in terms of the commodity backdrop that you've seen what inflation was last year what your expectation is on the forward? Yeah.
So let me just talk a little bit about our cost structure within cost of goods sold for 2016.
Overall we do expect net deflation driving gross margin expansion and I'm speaking specifically excluding Venezuela.
We're seeing a lot of volatility and inflation in Venezuela.
So set Venezuela aside.
Excluding Venezuela we expect gross margin expansion.
We are seeing raw and packaging material deflation in 2016.
We also have our base productivity improvements Project K and we've set Project K that $100 million.
About 75% to 80% of that runs through cost of goods sold.
On the zero-based budgeting savings that we quoted a little less than half of that is coming through cost of goods sold.
But remember Jason we've said all along that we were going to invest in our food and we've done that in 2015 and we're doing it in 2016.
Renovating our foods and launching granolas and mueslis based on consumer trends that we're seeing.
That investment in food remains at about a 50 basis point headwind in relation to our gross margin performance.
The other thing that we have impacting us in 2016 is some transactional currency exposure.
So we had good hedges in 2015 some of those are rolling off and what we're seeing is some headwind particularly around the Canadian dollar and the peso but also some of the other international currencies as they've weakened versus the U.S.
dollar.
Now we're seeing about a 40 basis point headwind in relation to transactional currency exposure.
So all up slight net deflation and some gross margin expansion in 2016.
That's helpful.
Great color.
One more question on margins a bit higher order.
Just looking at North America overall you seem to set – I guess our model goes back to 2003 we can't find a year where margins were this low in North America.
I don't know if you go further back in time kind of how far you have to go to get down to the 15% level? Looking across the space in food your margins are going up.
You look at your portfolio and you contemplate it and then you look at your margins and there seems to be a mismatch.
What are the impediments of you getting back to that near 20% type margin that you had a bit more than a decade ago and what's the glide path forward to try to get there? Jason if you go back to our Investor Day and what we shared at the Investor Day and I believe we even showed a chart at CAGNY we did say that we had operating margin improvement opportunities in North America where we may expect to grow our sales around low-single digits over the long-term.
We said we had 200 to 250 basis points worth of operating margin expansion.
And as you look at 2016 and how you'll see that play out for North America you will see strong operating margin expansion within that business as a result of the zero-based budgeting work that they are doing and also savings from Project K.
Jason if I could just add to what Ron said there's absolutely no impediment to us improving our margins.
We're absolutely committed to doing that.
You'll see that in 2016 and beyond.
Very good.
Good luck guys.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Two questions for me if I can.
One just a clarification the commentary on the pacing of EPS that it would be roughly evenly distributed per quarter I just want to make sure.
Was that a reference to absolute EPS dollars or to EPS growth year-on-year? I assume the former just wanted to make sure.
You're absolutely right Ken.
So that's EPS dollars based on the things that I mentioned in terms of currency headwinds and below the line.
Thanks Ron.
And then I guess this question is for anyone who wants to take it but Nielsen data they're really showing a very steep decline in private label cereal takeaway and it's very recent and sudden.
Did this correspond with what you're seeing in the market? I appreciate that you and your branded peers are doing better but that drop-off seems kind of unusual and it makes me wonder if it's accurately representing what's truly happening out there.
Well Ken on private label data you get the same data that we do.
I think private label has been soft in a number of our categories now for a number of years.
And I suspect what's happening there is that the U.S.
consumer is getting stronger.
Obviously lower petrol prices is putting more cash into people's pockets et cetera.
And at the same time you've got the branded players I think playing a much better game.
We're investing back in our food.
We've got strong brands.
We've got outstanding in-store execution.
All of those elements drive our business and provide a stronger offering.
And so I think the trends not just in Cereal not just in the U.S.
but in some of the other markets but also in some of the other categories in the U.S.
we've seen pretty weak private label sales now for a number of years.
Thank you.
See you next week.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Rob Dickerson of Consumer Edge Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I had two questions; one clarification of free cash flow and then another sort of broader.
The broader question is I see the improvement that's occurring in U.S.
Morning Foods driven by Cereal.
It's obviously positive but it does seem like the one area that does continue to hinder much more accentuated top line growth is your snack bars.
So I'm wondering as you think about the Snack Bar category in general and relative to Cereal what are the main differences you see to actually being able to recapture growth and take share and improve the top line off of a somewhat depressed Snack Bar performance relative to what you're doing in Cereal? And the reason why I ask is we've done a lot of work that just has shown that there really hasn't been that many new players in cereal over the past few years but over the past let's say three to five years there's just been a massive influx of brands that might make the category a bit more competitive.
Thanks.
Yeah great question.
So within our U.S.
Snacks business we have four large segments or businesses one of which is Wholesome Snacks.
Within that the key is to have great food that's on trend.
Where we have that we're growing strongly.
So Rice Krispies Treats is up high single digits in the fourth quarter.
Some of our foods though are not as on-trend as they need to be.
We've been renovating some of that food with Special K Chewy Nut Bar.
We have worked on Nutri-Grain et cetera some Nutri-Grain bars coming out.
So we believe we have strong brands.
Our Wholesome Snacks piece is more about ensuring all of our foods are on trend.
There's work that's been done there.
We've done that work; we've seen better results and there's still more to do.
But if you look at that Snacks business in totality we have other large businesses in there beyond just the Cereal bar side including crackers where we have a strongly advantaged footprint particularly with Cheez-It where we're seeing strong growth.
We have Pringles and for Pringles around the world we're seeing double-digit growth in Europe Latin America Asia Pacific and low-single-digit growth in North America.
We believe we have an opportunity to drive much more growth around Pringles in North America as we go into 2016 and that will help our U.S.
Snacks results.
We have great areas of strength within cookies as well.
So as you think about our Snacks business yes there's some challenges on Wholesome Snacks.
I think the answer to that is renovate improve the food continue to have strong brands continue to execute in store but it's really a food discussion.
I think we're making great progress there.
And then we have other sources of growth within that Snacks business.
That's why we have confidence we'll get that business back to growth in 2016.
Okay.
Great.
And then just a quick clarification on free cash flow I know your guidance for the year is $1.1 billion again I know in 2015 you called out you said $330 million of cash for Project K then that was offset by the supplier financing.
When we think about 2016 I'm not sure if you stated it before but if so I'm sorry if you could just remind me what the Project K cash outflow is expected to be net of supplier financing improvements if there are any? Sure.
So let me give you a little bit of color on how our cash flow kind of holds together and the $1.1 billion that we guided after capital spending.
And first I think it's important to note that in 2016 we are converting net income to cash flow after capital spending at a rate of 100%.
And in 2015 we actually did better than that.
So we have a slightly elevated capital spending in 2016.
We're in the 4% to 5% range.
That includes Pringles growth some capital behind that growth and then as well some cash for Project K.
Our cash for Project K is a couple of $100 million and what we're doing is we're continuing to roll out that supplier financing initiative to offset the cash requirements for Project K.
We did just that in 2015 and we were able to offset the cash requirements for Project K based on the improvements we saw in our core working capital.
So we're expecting the same thing in 2016 and that's what's allowing us to convert our net income to cash at 100%.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Yep.
And our next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
I guess I wanted just a clarification on Venezuela and thank you for the disclosure you put at the end of the press release because I think it really helps to clarify quite a bit.
But I just wanted to make sure so in the fourth quarter Venezuela because of the pricing contributed about a little over 3.5% to currency neutral sales growth and it contributed about 2.5% to currency neutral operating income growth.
So as we look at your guidance and I heard you comment about revenues you're basically I guess my interpretation of it is to the extent that it has sort of impact on revenues you're still looking at you're one to three as if kind of normal.
So if Venezuela contributes significantly more there could potentially be upside to revenues.
Would that same hold true for operating income as well? To the extent that it has the potential to deliver this type of impact on the growth to operating income would you be looking at operating income the same way in terms of the effect of what a normal growth would be and how Venezuela affects it? Sure Bryan.
Good question.
And let me just kind of run through how Venezuela is impacting things.
First as we said in the prepared remarks Venezuela was always included in our sales guidance back in August as we gave the original guidance.
We always expected about a point of contribution from Venezuela to our sales performance.
It's hard to predict and it's gotten even harder as inflation increased dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And based on our projections that could continue as we move to 2016 as well and that's why we said we could see sales growth exceed the 1% to 3% range as a result of pricing actions we'll take in Venezuela to offset inflation and make sure that our business stays profitable.
So we said excluding Venezuela we still expect to be in that 1% to 3% range on sales.
And also on operating profit and earnings per share excluding Venezuela we expect to be in the ranges that we communicated.
Okay? Okay.
Now remember we're pricing to offset inflation.
So it's possible that could throw off more profit but it remains to be seen.
There are margin controls within Venezuela.
Some may have the question as well so why haven't we deconsolidated Venezuela and let me just put that out there.
In terms of Venezuela we operate in a preferred industry food within the country and most of our inputs are locally sourced.
Remember Generally Accepted Accounting Principles one of the key criteria for deconsolidating is exchangeability of currency.
We've been able to exchange bolivar for U.S.
dollar in the fourth quarter of 2015 and also here in January of 2016.
We have control over our business.
As I said we're profitable in local currency as well.
We re-measured to the SIMADI rate in 2015 so it has become a smaller portion of our business as a result of that.
We continue to monitor and manage the business and our team there is doing a superb job at that.
All right.
Thank you.
And thanks for the clarity on that.
It's really helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Vishal in for Ken.
Just a quick question for me.
I wanted to confirm your response to an earlier question I think you said that the global rollout of ZBB has already started.
Is it fair to say that some of that margin improvement may flow through the P&amp;L ahead of the late 2016 schedule that you kind of outlined at your Investor Day? And that's it for me.
Thanks.
So it remains to be seen.
Obviously our teams are progressing that initiative as fast as possible.
We haven't provided any outlook in terms of 2016 from the international regions and we'll provide you an update when we have that but our teams are trying to generate savings as quickly as possible from ZBB.
Just one thing I would add to that if you think about Project K that's that is giving us additional savings in 2016 2017 2018.
We have ZBB for North America in 2016 additional rollout in 2017 international will be partially 2016 2017 2018.
What we're working on as a company is not just having great earnings visibility into 2016 but into 2017 2018 and beyond.
So we're building a long-term pipeline of productivity programs here to drive that long-term earnings visibility.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe this is a better question for CAGNY.
But you've got hundreds of millions of ongoing productivity savings.
You've identified ZBB Project K savings on top of that.
And I think John at the Analyst Day you had said we spend the right amount on advertising today and if anything we'll kind of optimize that and make it more efficient so there aren't necessarily incremental dollars going into that.
It isn't clear to me why more of the savings aren't assumed to be helping your EBIT growth? Well Eric firstly I think you're right on brand building we have industry-leading levels of brand building.
Obviously investing in our brands is important but we have enough fuel in the tank to do what we need to do.
So as you look at 2016 we expect our brand building to be largely flat to 2015.
So I think we have the money there that we need to have.
Obviously we are as I told you back at Day K we're very focused on improving margins over time and we're very very focused on getting back on our long-term growth algorithm.
Our long-term growth algorithm our 4% to 6% operating profit bottom line growth is a target it's not a ceiling and obviously the company will continue to do what we can do to drive performance over time.
Inc.</span></strong> But – so I guess borrowing some bonus for Simon or something you've got savings of – or you've got reinvestment in the quality of the food right as a partial offset but then I think you said ZBB can kind of cover that.
Maybe we'll follow up at CAGNY but it seems to me that the number is especially of advertising is flattish along with deflation the numbers don't really add up to what is relatively modest margin expansion.
Well Eric I think some of the $100 million of ZBB savings are within the brand building line it's likely to get spent back into the brand building line.
As you look at 2016 we're obviously continuing to invest back into our food.
We're also investing back into the emerging markets.
So I think you'll start to see the strategy to come through even in the regional results.
As you look at 2016 we expect strong profit growth in North America and Europe but now we're investing back in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
So you'll see our investment decisions and where we're driving for margin come through our results as we go through 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last one for Ron just as a follow up to make sure I got it.
The $0.04 of Venezuela hit in the first half of this year and I think you said $0.02 to $0.03 of JV cost are you excluding that or including those items? So the $0.04 on Venezuela in the front part of the year is part of the $0.10 of currency that I communicated.
So that rolls right through our comparable earnings per share performance.
The $0.02 to $0.03 is integration costs.
And we do typically walk those out of comparable.
That's to integrate those businesses.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
See you next week.
Thanks.
Yep.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
Yes sir.
And our final question will come from Eric Larson of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you everybody.
Congratulations team on really getting that sales momentum back on track.
It's very encouraging.
Ron I just would like to follow-up.
I have two quick questions.
I'd just like to follow-up a little bit more on your free cash.
Obviously you've got some new capacity going into Pringles around the globe.
Is some of your new growth initiatives – will most of that capital be a 2016 event or will some of that carry into 2017? I guess what I'm trying to do is get a feel for what we could see in 2017.
And I know it is way too early for any kind of guidance but I'm looking at the timing of your capital projects.
Yeah fair enough and we're not trying to guide on capital spending for 2017 at this point in time.
But on Pringles I'd say we're growing this business very quickly as John mentioned.
We're growing high-single digits overall as a company and double-digits in some of the regions.
So we're investing capital in 2016 but we see a glide path for continued growth and likely continued capital investment.
Obviously we're trying to squeeze as much capacity out of the current assets that we have Eric but we'll continue to invest behind that business as long as we're seeing strong growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Good.
And then a question for either Ron or John but it relates to the first question I think that Dave asked in the conference call.
And it's a meaningful investment that you made in your direct sales force in the U.S.
Cereal business.
The question that I have as you get your Wholesome Snacks business you get the right food and you invest in your food in that business and get everything lined up.
Structurally will your U.S.
sales force direct sales force be responsible for the in-store market for your Wholesome Snacks or how is that structured? That's great question.
As we think about our business we require three things to really drive our business.
One is to have great food.
Second is strong bands and the third is in-store execution.
And you think about that in-store execution as you say we're very pleased with the U.S.
Cereal business which is a warehouse sales organization.
Our Snacks business is a DSD sales organization.
We've made investments back into that organization as well.
We're very happy with the power of DSD and the ability to win in-store with that system.
I think the opportunity in our Snacks business is making sure the food is absolutely on trend and that's where we're focused and making great progress.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks everyone and congrats again.
Thank you.
Okay everyone.
Thanks very much.
We'll be around as usual for questions and we look forward to seeing everybody next week.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.