.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's 2011 First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Henry Meyer.
Mr.
Meyer please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Key's President and Chief Operating Officer and CEO-elect Beth Mooney; and Jeff Weeden our CFO.
Available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Now if you turn to the next slide.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Slide 3 highlights the specific capital actions that were part of our comprehensive capital plan that was submitted to the Federal Reserve earlier this year.
We were informed on March 18 that the Fed had no objections to our plan.
This allowed us to move forward in repurchasing the $2.5 billion in preferred shares held by the U.S.
Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program.
This was completed on March 30.
That transaction followed the successful completion of about $625 million common equity offering and a $1 billion senior debt offering.
A common equity issuance represented 25% of the TARP Capital which is one of the lowest capital replacement percentages among the 19 SCAP [Supervisory Capital Assessment Program] institutions.
This was accomplished by improving our financial performance including returning the company to sustained profitability improving credit quality and continuing to build our strong capital position.
That put us in a position to repurchase the TARP shares in a less dilutive manner than would have been the case if we had proceeded earlier.
After repurchase of the TARP preferred shares the U.S.
Treasury continues to hold a warrant to purchase 35.2 million shares of common stock at an initial exercise price of $10.64 per share.
Key has notified the U.S.
Treasury of its intent to repurchase the outstanding warrant.
Our capital plan also included an increase in our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.01 to $0.03 in the second quarter of 2011 subject to the approval of Key's Board of Directors when they meet in May.
Future increases will be evaluated by the Board based on profitability financial condition and other factors.
Slide 4 shows the significant progress we've made on Keyvolution initiative.
To date we've realized approximately $317 million in annual run rate savings which puts us in our targeted range of $300 million to $375 million.
We have leveraged our technology and implemented dozens of individual efficiency initiatives to lower expenses and to change our cost base to be more variable in relation to business activity.
As we have discussed in previous calls a portion of the savings have been reinvested back in our businesses including new branches technology and people.
And we don't view Keyvolution as an endpoint.
In a slower growth environment expense management is a critical factor in remaining competitive and producing value for our shareholders.
Now let me turn the call over to Beth Mooney to provide some overview comments on the quarter and her thoughts on the way we position Key for the future.
Beth? Thank you Henry.
And starting on Slide 5.
This morning we announced first quarter net income from continuing operations of $184 million or $0.21 per common share.
Our first quarter results showed continued improvement in credit quality and disciplined expense control.
Key's favorable credit quality trends have benefited from the ongoing modest economic recovery and the aggressive actions that we began over four years ago to exit higher risk lending activity.
The result has been continued improvement across the majority of our loan portfolio in both Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.
Key's net charge-offs are now at the lowest level since the first quarter of 2008 and nonperforming assets have declined for six consecutive quarters.
We expect to continue to see decreasing levels of net charge-offs and nonperforming assets during 2011.
In terms of our balance sheet Key remains in a strong position in terms of capital liquidity and reserve.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio at March 31 was 10.7% and our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 13.44%.
These capital levels position us well for a successful transition to Basel III and we remain among the highest in our peer group.
Our strength as a company and the foundation that has been laid is a reflection of the leadership that Henry has provided us through some very difficult times.
Now as we look forward our focus turns to leveraging our strong balance sheet and delivering on our growth strategies and the momentum we have in our businesses.
As a management team we are committed to maintaining our strong position but our focus is shifting from one of reducing risk to looking for lending opportunities and growing our fee-based revenue streams in areas such as investment banking capital markets and private banking.
Our KeyBank Capital Markets group bring in $46 million for our clients in the first quarter through the successful execution of 82 capital market transactions.
And in our Commercial Banking group which serves clients with revenues of $10 million to $250 million we experienced a 4% annualized growth rate in average loans in the quarter.
As our clients continue to gain more confidence and begin to finance inventory and equipment purchases we also saw an 11% year-over-year increase in SBA loan originations and our national ranking in the small business administration 7(a) small business financing program has moved from number 15 in 2009 to number 12 at the end of last year.
This means that we have contributed to job creation in our communities and are well positioned to serve our small business clients as the economy improves.
And we have continued to invest in our businesses which includes facilities people technology and product lines.
We expect to build 40 new branches in 2011 having opened 8 of those new branches in the first quarter and 77 others in the previous two calendar years.
In addition Key originated approximately $6.9 billion in new or renewed lending commitments to consumers and businesses during the first quarter which is up from $5.3 billion for the same period last year.
In the Corporate bank we have hired more than 300 people including over 100 senior professionals across industry verticals and product groups since January of 2010.
With the investments that we've made along with the benefits of Keyvolution we are in a strong competitive position in the marketplace and we can compete with anyone in our targeted industries and clients segment.
We are all excited about our future.
Our strong capital balance sheet and liquidity positions us for a range of opportunities.
Strong capital provides us the flexibility to make investments in our relationship businesses look for opportunities to build market share and target markets and meet our clients' needs for credit and financial services as demand increases with an ever-improving economy.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a review of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's first quarter 2011 results from continuing operations.
As Beth mentioned for the first quarter the company earned a net profit of $0.21 per common share.
This was after the $49 million or $0.06 charge related to the accelerated accretion of the discount on the TARP-preferred shares repurchased on March 30.
Our first quarter results benefited from an improved credit quality and lower expenses.
Our provision for loan losses was a credit of $40 million as net charge-offs and criticized assets continued to decline in the current quarter.
The first quarter profit compares to a profit of $0.33 per common share for the fourth quarter of 2010 and an $0.11 loss per common share for the first quarter of last year.
On Slide 7 are Key's long-term targets for success we have established against which we will measure our results.
You can also see how we have performed against these financial metrics through the first quarter.
We remain confident that we are taking the appropriate steps that will continue to move us towards our long-term goals for each of these measures.
Turning to Slide 8.
One of our objectives is to be a core-funded institution with a targeted loan-to-deposit ratio of 90% to 100%.
As of March 31 2011 and for each of the quarters shown on this slide our loan-to-deposit ratio was within this targeted range.
Looking at our average total loans during the first quarter we experienced a $1.5 billion decrease in balances compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The majority of this decrease occurred in our commercial real estate and exit portfolios.
While we have additional work remaining in our exit portfolio we have currently turned our attention to new lending opportunities.
And as Beth mentioned we are seeing an improvement in our lending pipeline and stability in our commercial and industrial book and experienced growth in our small-business and middle-market areas within Key Community Banks during this quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The runoff in the exit portfolio slowed in the current quarter to $340 million and we expect to see it remain in the $300 million to $400 million range for the next several quarters.
Our expectation remains that we will experience growth in our commercial loan book in the second half of this year as the economy improves.
On the deposit side of the balance sheet we continue to experience an improvement in the mix of our average deposit balances during the first quarter as compared to both the fourth quarter and the first quarter of last year as higher-costing CDs matured and were repriced to current market rates or moved to other deposit categories or other investment alternatives.
As we reported in our Form 10-K for last year as a result of a Moody's removing the one-notch lift it KeyBank's credit rating in November of 2010 due to the enactment of Dodd-Frank we moved approximately $1.5 billion of escrow balances on deposit at KeyBank during the first quarter to another financial institution.
This had an impact on both average and ending deposit balances for the first quarter of 2011.
We funded this movement of the escrow deposits by selling a similar amount of securities available for sale at the time of the trade.
Turning to Slide 9.
The company has experienced a substantial reduction in net charge-offs during the past several quarters with net charge-offs as an annualized percent of average total loans declining from 3.67% in the first quarter of 2010 to 1.59% for the first quarter of 2011.
As you can see on this slide the majority of the improvement has come from the commercial portfolios.
We anticipate additional improvement in the total amount of quarterly net charge-offs during 2011.
Turning to Slide 10.
We want to highlight here the continued improvement in all of our asset quality statistics over the past five quarters.
During this time period net charge-offs have declined 63%; nonperforming assets are down 55% to 2.23% of total loans other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets; and our coverage ratio of reserves to nonperforming loans has increased to 155% as of March 31 2011.
We would also point to Page 23 of today's earnings release when we review the nonperforming asset flows for the quarter.
And note that new inflows of nonperforming loans are less than one half of what they were for the first three quarters of 2010 and are down over $200 million from the fourth quarter of last year.
We believe this quarter was another confirmation of the continued progress we have made on asset quality and believe we are benefiting from the early aggressive actions we took.
We also anticipate lower levels of nonperforming loans and net charge-offs as the economy continues to rebound and for the provision for loan losses to remain lower than the level of net charge-offs for at least the next couple of quarters.
Turning to Slide 11.
For the first quarter of 2011 the company's taxable equivalent net interest income was $604 million compared to $635 million for the fourth quarter.
The net interest margin contracted six basis points to 3.25% for the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The overall level of average earning assets declined $2.2 billion during the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year with average loan balances declining $1.5 billion.
Also as previously noted during the first quarter we have moved approximately $1.5 billion of escrow deposits associated with our commercial real estate servicing to another depository and sold investment securities from our available-for-sale portfolio to fund this transfer.
Looking at the second quarter of 2011 we expect to see average earning assets and the net interest margin decline as a result of the movement of the escrow balances and the repurchase of the TARP preferred securities from the U.S.
Treasury during March.
While net interest income will decline the company will also avoid approximately $35 million per quarter in preferred dividends and amortization related to the TARP-preferred shares.
Until we see a more significant pickup in lending activities given the current rate environment we expect that net interest margin for the remainder of 2011 in the range of 3.15% to 3.25%.
Turning to Slide 12.
Noninterest income is a large contributor to the overall revenue stream of the company representing approximately 43% of total revenues for the first quarter of 2011.
We are remaining focused on using our balance sheet strategically and targeting specific client opportunities across the company.
In the Corporate bank noninterest income was down from the seasonally high level we experienced in the fourth quarter but showed good improvement over the first quarter of last year as a result of increased activity in investment banking and capital markets revenue along with the positive impact of improvement in credit which resulted in a decrease in customer derivative reserves compared to an increase during the same period one year ago.
In the Community bank compared to the first quarter of last year we experienced growth in trust and investment management fees net gains on loan sales electronic banking fees and a reduction in the provision for losses for client derivatives which more than offset the decrease in deposit service charge income resulting from the implementation of Regulation E in the third quarter of last year.
In total noninterest income for the first quarter of 2011 was $457 million down from $526 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and up from $450 million in the same period one year ago.
Included in the fourth quarter results was a gain of $28 million from the sale of Tuition Management Systems and net gains on sale of investments of $12 million.
The fourth quarter also had very strong investment banking and capital markets revenue as clients took advantage of favorable market conditions for debt and equity transactions.
Turning to Slide 13.
As Henry mentioned in his comments through the first quarter of 2011 we have implemented $317 million of annualized expense savings towards our goal of $300 million to $375 million by the end of 2012.
This is a significant improvement from our previously reported progress on Keyvolution.
For the first quarter our noninterest expense was $701 million down from $744 million for the fourth quarter of 2010 and down from $785 million from the same period one year ago.
During the first quarter personnel expense increased $6 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of seasonally higher employee benefits expense including employment taxes along with severance-related costs.
Other noninterest expense in total declined $49 million compared to the fourth quarter and decreased $93 million from the same period one year ago.
Included in our first quarter cost was a credit for the provision for [indiscernible] commitments of $4 million compared to a credit of $26 million in the fourth quarter and a credit of $2 million in the same period one year ago.
Based on the progress we have made on our expense base and our continued focus on controlling our costs we anticipate expenses remaining in the range of $700 million to $725 million per quarter.
This focus will help offset some of the pressure we expect on net interest income due to the contraction and the balance sheet resulting from the repayment of the TARP preferred share and the movement of the escrow balances in the first quarter.
Slide 14 shows our pre-provision net revenue and return on average assets.
Pre-provision net revenue is up from the same period one year ago and down from the strong results reported in the fourth quarter which included the gains on the sale of Tuition Management System and certain seasonally strong revenue items such as corporate-owned life insurance income higher levels of capital markets-related income and net gains from the sale of investment securities.
As stated earlier we expect net interest income to decline in the next quarter as a result of repaying TARP and a smaller balance sheet.
We also expect to maintain effective expense controls in the coming quarters and focusing on increasing our lending activities as the economy continues to improve.
However the net effect of the above will still result in a lower level of pretax pre-provision net revenue.
An offset to this is the elimination of the preferred dividend and accretion on the TARP shares of approximately $35 million per quarter.
Another positive is we expect to see credit costs remain well contained as net charge-offs and non-performing loans continue to trend lower.
As shown on this slide the return on average assets for the first quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010 were above our targeted range of 1% to 1.25%.
We continue to believe as provision expense normalizes and we execute on our client insight relationship strategy our results will be within the targeted range of return on average assets.
And finally turning to Slide 15 we think it's safe to say our capital ratios are strong.
Having raised additional common equity in the first quarter to repurchase the TARP-preferred shares our tangible common ratio and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio both increased during the first quarter to 9.16% and 10.70% respectively at March 31 2011.
Our work now going forward will be to seek opportunities to profitably deploy this capital.
That concludes our remarks.
And now we will return the call to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
My question is just on the balance sheet size and you talked about you're still having the run off expectation and some of the other core portfolio still shrinking.
So I'm just wondering first of all the $1.5 billion of escrow deposits and securities was that completed -- could you tell us what part of the quarter that was completed? Ken that was completed in March of this year.
Okay.
So I'm just trying to understand then we should probably see a little bit more effect of that in the second quarter.
Can you maybe try to size for us where you kind of expect the average earning assets to move over the next few quarters? And if you have at this point -- do you have an understanding of when you think you'll actually achieve that bottoming point before the core growth that you're starting to expect can exceed some of that runoff? Yes.
Ken this is Jeff Weeden again.
I think in terms of the overall average earning assets the first quarter around $75.2 billion on average.
And with the repayment of the TARP and the movement of the escrow balances plus we had sub-debt that matured at the bank level in the first quarter also our expectation would be that average earning assets for the second quarter would probably decline approximately $3 billion.
As we think about it though then that's getting fairly close to the bottoming out.
There may be a little bit of additional movement but there's not a lot of debt maturities for the balance of the year.
And I think the other thing is that we've talked about is we are more of a liability-driven balance sheet at this particular point in time.
And so I think that's where we'll kind of bottom out.
As far as loan growth we talked about basically the second half of this year.
I think in the C&amp;I book we have seen relative stability in ending balances.
So ending balances for the last quarter here are fairly close within the straight C&amp;I book.
In terms of when that overall decline of stops on the total book I think again we'd see the exit portfolios are slowing down at this particular point to the $300 million to $400 million range.
And I guess I'd ask both Bill and Chris could maybe comment on what they're seeing on the lending side.
Sure.
Ken this is Chris Gorman here.
Just to follow up with Jeff's comments.
So we too see stabilization overall in the second quarter and then growth in the back half of the year.
One of the things though that we always focus on is the real estate book because that clearly has been the biggest driver.
Real estate you'll notice on Page 19 is down about $900 million throughout the quarter.
Interestingly here we're starting to see frankly a fair amount of traction.
In that portfolio we still think it will be down in the second quarter.
We think it will stabilize in the third quarter and we think it will grow in the fourth quarter.
And our confidence in the growth is based on the pipeline.
We see the pipeline is up say 8.5x believe it or not from where it was in April of 2010.
And not everything the pipeline is going to matriculate.
But the fact of the matter is when you have that kind of a pipeline we feel pretty good about it.
As you look at the C&amp;I book which is basically stabilized we have about 71 deals in the pipeline in the Syndications business where we had basically the second best quarter that we've ever had.
And of those 71 deals we think that will generate outstandings for KeyCorp throughout the balance of the year somewhere in the neighborhood of $600 million to $700 million.
So Ken our view of it is exactly as Jeff described.
Real estate's a little bit of an outlier in that it grows later as we implement our strategy but we see stabilization to second quarter growth and the third and fourth.
Ken this is Jeff.
In the Community bank the story is very similar.
Commercial loans did grow this quarter and we've seen loan approvals up dramatically this quarter versus past quarter and even to the highest level they had before the downturn in 2008.
So some good activity there.
Business banking we saw a little bit of growth this year and that's the first time we've had in a number of quarters.
So we feel good about the trends that are developing.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Maybe first to follow up on that comment to seek this commercial loan growth in the second half.
Are you guys seeing any change in borrower confidence to draw on commercial lines at this point? I guess we've heard from quite a few banks they expect the growth in the second half.
I'm just wondering what you're seeing in terms of borrowers really being able to draw down on lines to get that moving up number one? Steven it's Chris Gorman here.
We have not seen an expansion in utilization.
As you look at the C&amp;I book it's up a tick from the third quarter of last year and consistent with the fourth quarter.
Our growth is really coming from people buying equipment in our leasing business frankly some transactional lending that we're doing but we are not seeing yet an increase in the utilization.
And I would say Steven the Community bank we've been relatively flat although our utilization has been up slightly more than the Corporate bank's book but not enough to say it's dramatically different.
So where you are seeing the commercial loan growth do you think that will be enough to offset the run-off to the non-exit portfolio in the second half of the year? We'll see more stable balances there? In the non-exit books? Yes.
Yes I think in terms of the non-exit books yes.
I think even in terms of how we get later into the year our expectation is that the exit books have slowed at this particular point in time and that we're expecting to see stability and potential improvement obviously growth in the overall loan look by the end of the year.
And maybe just one following up on Henry's comments about cost savings being a process not an endpoint.
Maybe a question for Beth.
How do you balance spending on new branches and renovations now with the need to improve efficiency? Why not wait until the top line starts improving? Steven that's a good question because we balance that decision every year and are in a wave of expansion in some of our core targeted market specifically Seattle Portland and Colorado where we see our branch share growth outpacing with our density increases.
So as we look at each year we validate that we do have enough market share growth and are in attractive demographic markets to support those new branches.
We've also changed the mix of where we placed them to be more small-business and middle-market as well as private-banking-centric and we monitor the profitability of that portfolio in the business cases monthly.
And we are continuing to look at that program to deploy new branches only where we feel like we can generate a return consistent with our business case.
But we evaluate it constantly and are looking at the mix of branches and doing more relocations this year where we'll take an existing branch that is slightly off the trade area and move it to a more attractive area.
So some piece of those 40 branches include relocations to help the overall fleet.
This is Henry Steven.
One of the things that I just want to highlight in Beth's comments is that we don't justify in this environment branches for retail deposits.
Beth said in Bill's comments about loan growth but when we're looking at branches today we're really looking at stores that are going to take in retail deposits but also make small-business and middle-market loans be attractive to private banking and a more a different clientele there.
So it's really a more holistic approach to the Community bank than it is just a retail deposit play.
And we'll take our next question from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Just a couple of questions.
First just in terms of the loan loss reserve and Jeff maybe Chuck a question to you.
But I'm just wondering with the positive outlook for the year in terms of nonperformers and charge-offs  Jeff as you mentioned the inflow this quarter was down again substantially reserve coverage is strong.
How do we start thinking about just in terms of with -- starting to see a little bit more slow down now in some of the legacy portfolio C&amp;I commercial real estate and the expectation now that for more loan growth in the second half how do we start to think about kind of that return to a more normalized provision level if you will after a couple of quarters now of the negative provision? Yes Todd this is Chuck.
We spend a lot of time thinking about the allowance doing a lot of quantitative work on the allowance.
And clearly I think that some of the reduction in it is coming from the reduction in volume.
So as volume changes over time there'll be some impact.
But the expectation clearly is that those will be high-quality assets.
So I wouldn't want to overplay the impact of a growing loan book.
But as you said the fundamentals which is clearly what we look and spend a lot of time on have continued to improve.
But a lot of the improvement that we've seen over the last three or four quarters has been our manic [ph] reduction in our real estate book.
And as you pointed out that's beginning to slow because it's a much smaller portfolio than it used to be.
And the growth that was referenced in the commercial real estate by Chris those real estate assets will have quite different characteristics from the ones that were in there in the exit book.
They tend to be REIT-related much larger obligors higher credit quality et cetera et cetera.
So this is a quarterly process for us.
There's a lot of quantitative and modeling work that goes into it.
And I think really the only thing I can say at the moment is that the general direction as we guided previously has been to lower charge-offs lower NPLs and lower provision.
Okay that's helpful.
Again it sounds pretty positive at the end of the day.
But just switching gears just another question just on the expenses.
Jeff again you guys kind of came in expenses were a positive surprise in the quarter for sure.
You're now kind of at the low end of what you're suggesting in terms of a run rate for the year.
What I'm thinking about could you give us a little bit more thought process in terms of where you are now balancing out the ongoing efficiency improvements versus additional leverage that you may have in terms of some of the environmental cost as it relates to credit? I noticed that the OREO costs were pretty flattish this quarter.
Again with some of the slowing in the portfolios how do we think about ongoing efficiency improvements versus potential leverage on in terms of legacy environmental costs tied to credit? Well I think there is still some additional room on the legacy environmental cost that you're referring to.
So we're running at about $10 million a quarter on OREO expense for the last two quarters.
And I think if we get to a more of a normalized environment time that number will probably drop to closer to a $5 million.
There's always going to be some degree of costs associated with it.
So there's a little bit more that's left there.
I think in terms of overall our expenses we saw a nice improvement across a number of different areas in the company.
And I think there's just an intense focus on it within the company now with what we set up in our sourcing area that we have and going through and really managing and working with across the company to control those costs.
So we're trying to be very judicial about what we spend but then also looking at making investments.
So I think as Beth talked about your previous question was on new branches and where those are located and people I believe in the comments Beth also made in her prepared remarks that within the Corporate bank we've added a number of people in the last year and we'll continue to add people as we see additional business opportunities out there.
So we expect to have positive operating leverage from that as business activity improves on the part of our clients.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from David George with Baird.
Henry you mentioned in your comments this is first with respect to capital you mentioned the dividend and the Board is going to meet in May.
But can you further clarify kind of your plans on capital? Obviously you're in pretty good shape from a capital perspective and the balance sheet probably isn't going to be growing a whole lot at least in the near-term and you've got a pretty big reserve.
So if you could maybe clarify your thoughts on deploying capital as you move through the year? David I'm going to turn that over to Beth because I have two weeks left.
So I don't think we're going to do much on capital in two weeks and Beth will be the CEO so I'm going to let her answer that question.
With that thank you Henry and David.
That's a good question because obviously the whole notion of capital management will be a big issue for not only Key but the industry going forward.
Jeff in his prepared remarks mentioned that we do have among peer-leading capital level and that we will be focusing on opportunities to profitably deploy this capital.
As you mentioned part of our capital assessment that we submitted to the Federal Reserve included a request to increase our dividend on our stock to $0.03 a share which the Board will consider in its next meeting.
So obviously dividend policy as we go forward in the coming years will be something that we will evaluate based on financial performance earnings levels and so forth.
And then we've often talked that we continue to support and invest in our franchise through the downturn but we are very much focused on what can we do to support the organic growth of our business as well as support loan demand that we've indicated we believe will be returning as we go through the year.
And then at the end of the day another thing that we could look to is how do we opportunistically expand our franchise.
We have many markets that we deem to be attractive where we have opportunities that we could grow market share through some tactical fill-in acquisitions.
And we think the geographic diversity of our footprint actually translates into a number of opportunities we could consider over time.
So if we stay disciplined about our investments about our de novos about our acquisitions as well as thinking about what appropriate amount gets returned to shareholders we feel like our level of capital creates an opportunity for us to support organic growth acquisition opportunities and gives us a lot of flexibility as we start thinking about how to strengthen the value of Key in the future.
Okay great that's helpful.
And then one question for maybe Jeff or Chris.
Commercial loan yields were down about 18 basis points from Q4 to Q1.
Can you talk about what the driver of that is? Is it kind of a mix issue? Kind of explain what's going on there if you could? Well this is Jeff.
There are a couple of things.
One we do have certain other things that are in the swap book that have benefited provided benefit and those swaps have been rolling off.
And I think from the competitive side perhaps Chuck can talk about what he's seeing on the spread in the overall market as for loans coming in.
Yes.
And David this is Chuck.
I would say that you have to pick your sector and your market.
But generally speaking margins are off where they were in the peak last year.
Big run-off during the crisis and they've certainly settled down from there.
Our belief is that they are still well above where they were pre-crisis but my guess is they'd come off somewhere on average 25 basis points so thereabouts maybe a little bit more into the markets.
And we'll take our next question from Crane Siegenhalter (sic) [Craig Siegenthaler] with Credit Suisse.
It's Craig Siegenthaler Credit Suisse.
The first question I have is on the liability side of the balance sheet.
Maybe probably a better one here for Jeff.
But it looks like many of Key's deposit segments declined sequentially and deposits overall would have declined except for the large pickup in foreign-based deposits.
Can you maybe discuss some of the seasonal factors here and the impact from the escrow and what kind of drove all this? Well the escrow balances obviously were $1.5 billion going out in March.
So that did have an impact on it.
That will be in several different categories.
So some of those are DDA balances some of them are money market account balances.
So that does have an impact.
I think if we look at personal checking accounts and some of the other things we did see growth in those overall accounts.
So I guess we feel confident about as we look forward at this particular in time on overall deposits.
But also bear in mind that we continue to have CDs that are coming up for renewal and repricing and if you've got a CD that's coming up and it's a 3% or a 2% or a 5% yield on it and it's repricing at 25 basis points that's somewhat of a shock for people.
So they've been moving some of that money to other deposit categories too or looking for other yield elsewhere in the marketplace.
So overall I said I think we feel relatively good about where we are in deposits.
In terms of the foreign branch deposits you'll see also that short-term investments were up at the end of the quarter.
So we have probably about $2.4 billion in total that that account was higher at the end of the quarter and it was just offset in short-term investments and those went out.
In other words they've left the Fed account after the end of the quarter.
And if you look on the average-balance basis average balances are pretty consistent from quarter-to-quarter on those two categories.
Got it.
And what was the yield that you pay on average for that deposit in foreign office? Joe do you know what that yield is? This is going to be if you look here on average it's 31 basis points.
Yes.
But on the particular transaction that we're referring to it's related to cash management activities on the part of one of our customers that was sitting on a large amount actually related to one of the capital markets transactions that Chris Gorman referred to earlier.
And given the short-term nature you're talking less than 25 basis points as far as the amount paid on that transaction.
Got it.
And you think with that transaction that money could leave next quarter? Do you think that's fairly sticky? That particular one? That's already gone.
That was a transaction as Joe was talking about it was one of the capital markets transaction.
So the client raised some capital from the end of the quarter that was in deposit short-term and then it moved out of the bank shortly after the end of the quarter.
Okay got it.
And what I've been trying to get these questions is do you think we're nearing the end of significant growth in noninterest bearing and low interest-bearing deposit cost? Are we near the end or do you think we have a couple of more quarters here? Well in terms of our cost on our deposits overall we're still going to see a reduction in terms of the overall level of deposit costs.
We have CDs that are higher rate that continue to mature.
So whatever they're going into whether it's into a money market account a NOW [Negotiable Order of Withdrawal] account a checking account or even back into a CD it's at less cost than what it was maturing against.
So that will have an impact on the overall cost of deposits.
And we'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Rob Placet from Matt's Group.
First just to follow up on your net interest income outlook comments.
You mentioned you expect net interest income to decline this quarter and you expect the NIM to be between 3.15% and 3.2% for the rest of the year.
That said can you provide any color on how we should be thinking about the trajectory of the NIM throughout the year? Rob this is Jeff.
What we talked about was the net interest margin between 3.15% and 3.25%.
And that the expectation was that average earning assets would decline approximately $3 billion here in the second quarter as a result of a lot of the movement of the bonds repayment of the TARP shares in the first quarter along with the escrow balances.
So I think in terms of where we see the margin we see it coming down in the second quarter and then we see the overall level of earning assets coming down.
But as I also said in our previous question the level of earning assets going forward is going to be driven a lot by the liability side of the equation.
So not expecting a lot of movement after this particular quarter.
And as we think about the overall margin what is it going to take to have an improvement in the margin? We need to have overall interest rates come up.
We are asset-sensitive.
We took risk off of the balance sheet in the first quarter also.
So when the escrow deposits were removed we also reduced the size of the investment portfolio.
So we used that to fund that.
So there's less "interest rate risk" associated with that and we became a little bit more asset sensitive as a result of those activities.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
And then secondly just to follow up on the topic of capital deployment.
Key has about $1.5 billion of trust preferreds outstanding I believe.
So how are you guys thinking about these? Does it make sense to start calling some of these? Well I think we have $1.8 billion in trust preferreds outstanding and we did not have anything incorporated into our 2011 capital plan that was acted upon earlier this year this last quarter.
And so any activities that would be related to the trust preferreds would require us to resubmit a capital plan or submit a capital plan.
And what our plans are along those lines obviously as we continue to get our capital to have discussions with our Board and we will be thinking about a number of different things over the course of the next several months.
And we'll take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Just a quick question on the subject of mortgage.
You guys have largely benefited I would say over the past few years for not being a huge player in the mortgage industry.
I just wanted to get your thoughts back on that business in the future whether it is your that thoughts have been impacted by QRM [Quantitative Risk Management] and the various other initiatives that are swirling around the mortgage business right now? Yes Nancy that's a good question because we clearly have been the beneficiary have very little repurchase risk don't have MSRs on the balance sheet.
So in many ways have weathered some piece of the storm well as a result of that positioning.
We have built up a mortgage platform within the Community bank of some 200 mortgage loan originators.
And we are originating but we originate to sell.
So we have been under a contract where we get a fixed revenue spread for that very important product to our clients and it is done on a white-label basis where our client does not realize that it is not Key.
So that has been a very good solution for us.
And we actually have seen our mortgage volumes increasing significantly year-over-year.
And over the last several years we're up some 30% or 40% versus the same time last year and view the market uncertainties as an opportunity for us to continue to provide that product.
But we chose to make it a fixed spread versus riding the wave of the volume variable production and cost curve of mortgage.
I'm not going to say in the future we wouldn't reconsider whether our mortgage platform of a different nature made sense for our company but for right now we're very pleased with the ability to offer the product attract good sales people because the disruption in the market has created a lot of good people who are seeking a different mortgage platform and being able to robustly offer that product to our clients.
And we do have a small book where we will balance sheet for our private clients and our private banking clients.
; Do you think there would be an opportunity to keep more on the balance sheet going forward? Since apparently what is being originated out there right now is it pretty good quality is that an asset that you might want to keep? Nancy we talk about that in our asset liability committee meetings and we do have a bucket that we are willing to put on the balance sheet for the right client profile.
Like I said heavily into our private bank client group and that is something where we have continued capacity and appetite and review it regularly to make sure we like the credit statistics the yield and the mix with our assets.
And we'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
My first question is for Beth as a follow up to David's question.
Assuming that clearly your first priority for capital deployment is to support organic growth.
Could you help us think about how you're prioritizing your other opportunities and the other opportunities being clearly depository acquisitions non- depository acquisitions raising the dividend again this year and ramping up a share repurchase program? Yes Erika.
We are in the process of doing our three-year strategic plan as we speak.
The opportunity to repurchase the TARP capital and put that behind us and get more clarity on what our capital base index was going to be.
And as we've all noted we are also now in the position of where we are generating capital on a quarterly basis.
Supporting dividends would be a priority.
And for our 2011 capital plan we have indicated that our Board will consider that increase.
But going forward we will always consider on a quarterly basis what is the appropriate level of dividend relative to our income.
And then first priority is the strategic execution of our business plans.
We have said that we are not in any way dependent on mergers and acquisitions in order to organically grow our business and support our growth plans.
We view that as an opportunity in addition to investing in our businesses and continuing to grow on our balance sheet.
And then share repurchase was not part of our 2011 capital plan.
Obviously over the years you would always look at whether or not you return excess capital to the shareholder or you can effectively deploy it with discipline for shareholder return.
But that is not currently on our radar screen of how we're thinking about capital opportunities.
As you're going through your strategic plan could you give us a sense on if you do consider depository acquisitions where you would be A where you you'd be more focused on and B as you look out through your footprint whether or not you believe you're in the right markets or perhaps there are markets that you're considering may be exiting or not paying as much attention to? Erika that's a good question because one of our thoughts is our geographic diversity does provide us lots of opportunities.
Because of our relative market share and distribution in many different markets we view the M&amp;A landscape as high a highly opportunistic for Key.
And there's that old saying "Banks get sold they don't get bought." So you can't necessarily articulate where some of these depository opportunities would fall.
But demographically when we look West we felt like there is a good fit with our franchise for some potential acquisitions in the Western markets and we have been strategically building de novos in anticipation of the ability to continue to ramp up our performance in the West.
So look at it that way.
And then as it relates to markets where we currently do not do business we would consider that a low priority.
I think it's a slow way to go into a market where you don't have existing presence and name recognition so would not target anything that took us into a new geography in and of itself.
But we might get an expansion of our footprint as you look at M&amp;A but we wouldn't target to just try and go into a market without name recognition that didn't also complement what we already have.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Can you talk about the core fee run rate outlook over the next couple of quarters? Well I think in terms of looking at the Key revenue side of the equation we've pretty much come to the bottom I believe on the deposit service charge side of the equation.
Trust and investment management service fees as we continue to make investments into our private banking operations as well as overall market activity in that particular area has a tendency to usually build the course as we go through through the course of the year.
Other related items I'm not certain in the aggregate.
If you look at the total that we have that there's going to be a lot of difference in terms of the overall total picture but mostly individual line items move during the course of the year based upon business-related activities.
Is it fair to say just working down the list of guidance points you gave then that average earning assets down $3 billion NIM $315 million to $325 million.
It sounds like fees in the ballpark of the $450 million reported this quarter and then $700 million to $725 million of expenses.
So the preprovision kind of $300 million to $340 million as a range of potential near-term outcomes? $300 million to $340 million? That would be a potential range for near-term outcome.
And then just to follow up there've been a lot of questions on excess capital.
But I guess the way I think about it if you were towards a 9% Tier 1 common which would still seem to be a pretty high number the excess capital is going to be roughly 20% of your market cap basically now.
So I guess recognizing that there's some organic growth opportunities recognizing that there's some tuck-in deals you can do with that kind of excess capital base why wouldn't you be more focused on share repurchases? I think in terms of Brian what we have to do really review this with the Board.
We have our plans that we're developing and putting together as Jeff was talking about.
Strategic plans are underway.
[indiscernible] But as we all know everything requires us once you're part of the 19 SCAP banks you have to go back with your capital plan and resubmit it to the regulators for any changes to it.
So I can't represent any differences than what have already been approved.
I think share repurchases are something that will be incorporated into the future capital plans that will be presented.
Our primary focus on this last capital plan was to repay TARP we've paid it in as friendly a manner as possible seek a dividend increase which we incorporated into it and retire the warrants.
And that was a plan that the regulators did not object to and we are implementing that particular plan.
And we have time for one more question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
One is on the capital that you're going to be deploying into the business.
Can I just get a sense as to what kind of hurdle rates you have for the various buckets of your business? Well I think in terms of hurdle rates what we look at and thinking in terms of branches for example and that's a longer-lived asset that we look at which currently has approximately about a three-year breakeven type of on the cash flow basis so revenue versus expense.
In terms of the IRRs that we strive for it is something in the 15% to 16% range on branch deployment.
As we look at some of the other areas when we're investing in people obviously it's different we have it's much more much more of a positive operating leverage and we're trying to cover the costs associated with the current infrastructure that we have.
And that's going to be based a lot on what we see for business opportunities that are out there.
So there's not a lot of other capital "deployment initiatives" that are currently underway.
We are looking and still working on technology across the company to make us again as efficient as possible in and across all of the businesses and being able to respond to client questions quickly and timely.
Yes Beth? And Betsy I would just add that when it comes to the deployment of human capital we have been very opportunistic at adding people in client-facing roles against markets or verticals where we see an opportunity to gain share or garner new and additional clients and have put kind of a hurdle out there that we expect people to produce enough revenue within 12 months to justify their hiring.
And then as it relates to technology that has been a significant enabler to our business strategies to promote client insights to have better active information on how to predict client needs as well as resolve problems.
So as we look at our portfolio between plant and equipment as it were our branch network as well as people and technology we have been investing across the board to support our business plans.
And Betsy it's Chris.
Just to add to that we've been very pleased in the Corporate bank with the amount of talent we've been able to bring in kind of what our hit rate is and the ability of these new senior-level relationship people to leverage what we think is a unique business model.
Okay.
So we should expect that the ROA for the organization will be trending up as you execute on all of this? Well Betsy I think in terms of looking at the amount of capital that we have and going back to our ROA.
So as we deploy capital over time in other words how we return capital or we look at potential M&amp;A opportunities in the future all of those things will be taken into account.
But our targeted ROA what we've put out there is 1% to 1.25% and you'll have to apply them against the leverage we ultimately end up with.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Henry Meyer for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
This will be my last opportunity to thank all of you for taking time from your schedule to participate in one of our earnings calls.
As you know a lot of changes in the industry and here over my 39 years at Key and I remain confident that under Beth and her leadership team the company will perform very well serving our clients communities employees and shareholders going forward.
So thank you for your time and interest.
If you have any follow-up questions regarding today's earnings material you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vernon Patterson and/or Chris Sikora at (216) 689-4221.
That concludes our remarks.
That concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Ms.
Mooney please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Now if you would turn to Slide 3.
This morning we announced second quarter net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $243 million or $0.26 per common share.
These results are above the amounts reported in the first quarter of this year and the year-ago period.
Our improved performance reflected continued improvement in credit quality good expense control and the successful execution of our business plan.
Key's favorable credit quality trends have benefited from the improvement in the economy and the aggressive actions that were taken to exit higher risk lending activities and our early recognition and resolution of problem credit.
This has resulted in Key's net charge-offs declining to their lowest level since the first quarter of 2008 and nonperforming assets has now declined for 7 consecutive quarters.
Another area of focus has been expense management and our second quarter showed continued progress.
We have benefited from the success of our Keyvolution initiative and other efforts to streamline our operations.
Going forward we expect that we will continue to identify additional expense-saving opportunities as this is a critical factor in producing value for our shareholders in a slower growth environment.
We're also leveraging our strong capital balance sheet and liquidity position.
By continuing to focus on meeting our clients' borrowing needs Key originated approximately $9.5 billion in new or renewed loans and commitments during the second quarter as compared to $6.9 billion of new or renewed loans and commitments during the first quarter of 2011.
We were especially pleased by the growth in our C&amp;I loan portfolio which was up 3.7% from the previous quarter.
The increase was driven by activity in the industrial and REIT sectors as well as increases in middle market lending in all 3 of our geographic regions.
Based on what we are hearing from our corporate clients as well as lower runoff from our exit portfolio we expect to reach an inflection point in total loans during the second half of this year and we will be poised again for growth.
We've also been working on strategies to mitigate the impact from the implementation of the new regulation on debit card interchange fees.
As we previously reported we estimate the new limits on allowable interchange fees which will become effective on October 1 will reduce our annual revenue by approximately $50 million to $60 million before the implementation of our mitigation strategy.
These strategies will include both revenue enhancements as well as expense save opportunities.
They are focused on not only retaining but expanding our engaged client relationships increasingly offering clients choices aligned with their needs and preferences as well as a strong focus on our cost structure for our Consumer Payments business.
And the final item on this slide focuses in on capital management.
Key ended the second quarter in a strong position with our Tier 1 common equity ratio at 11.01% and our Tier 1 risk-based capital at 13.76%.
These levels should place us in the top quartile of our peer group and position us for a successful transition to Basel III.
Our strong capital position provides us with the flexibility to make investments in our relationship businesses look for opportunities to build market share and meet our clients' needs for credit and financial services as the economy improves.
Additionally our board also approved a quarterly dividend increase to $0.03 per common share for the second quarter of 2011.
On Slide 4 we show the progress that we are continuing to make on our long-term goal.
On a number of these measures we are currently within our targeted range including being core-funded maintaining a high-quality and diverse revenue mix and the successful completion of our Keyvolution initiative.
And we are continuing to make progress on the other measures such as returning to a moderate risk profile and bringing asset quality within our targeted range.
And at the bottom of the slide you can see that our return on assets for the second quarter was 1.23% which was also within our targeted range.
We continue to believe that as provision expense normalizes and we execute on our client insight relationship strategy our results will be within our targeted range for return on average assets.
And before I turn the call over to Jeff let me conclude by saying that we view our second quarter results as another step forward for our company.
Despite the uneven pace of the recovery we are gaining traction in both the Community Bank and the Corporate Bank and we have the right business model which positions us to compete and win in the marketplace.
By executing on our strategies we can organically grow the franchise by being nimble and opportunistic in our markets and targeted client segments while maintaining our disciplined capital management.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a view of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 5 provides a summary of the company's second quarter 2011 results from continuing operations.
As Beth commented on earlier for the second quarter the company earned a net profit of $0.26 per common share compared to $0.21 for the first quarter of this year and $0.06 for the same period 1 year ago.
Over the next several slides we will review in more detail our results for the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 6 average total loans declined $858 million during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of this year.
This was a slower decline that we had been experiencing in prior quarters and supports our belief that we are nearing an inflection point in the total loan portfolio where it will begin showing growth.
In fact commercial financial and agricultural loans showed its first quarterly growth in average balances since 2008 increasing $611 million or 3.7% unannualized from the prior quarter.
Also during the quarter we experienced an increase in total commercial financial and agricultural loan commitments and a slight increase in utilization rates by our clients.
In our non-exit consumer portfolio we saw balances stabilize during the second quarter.
And in our exit portfolio runoff slowed to $312 million.
At June 30 2011 our exit loan portfolio was down to $4.7 billion and it's expected to continue moving lower by approximately $250 million to $325 million per quarter for the next couple of quarters much slower than the rate we experienced earlier in the cycle.
Average commercial real estate balances for mortgage and construction loans declined by a little more than $1 billion during the quarter as market liquidity continued to remain good for these assets.
We anticipate that the decline in commercial real estate balances will slow considerably during the third quarter and stabilize or potentially grow by the fourth quarter of this year.
While our clients remain somewhat cautious compared to prior recoveries our lending pipelines are solid and we are actively supporting our clients' borrowing needs.
Moving to Slide 7.
On the deposit side of the balance sheet we continue to experience an improvement in the mix of our average deposit balances during the second quarter as compared to both the first quarter of this year and in the same quarter of last year as higher cost in CDs matured and were repriced to current market rates or moved to other deposit categories or other investment alternatives.
As shown in the Highlights section on this slide we have approximately $12.1 billion of CDs outstanding at the end of the quarter.
Of this balance $4.3 billion will mature over the next 2 quarters and $5.1 billion mature in 2012.
The average rates paid on the maturities for 2011 and 2012 are 1.51% and 2.69%.
This compares to our average cost of CDs renewed during the first half of 2011 of 32 basis points.
The loan-to-deposit ratio shown for the quarter is based on period-end balances and was impacted by a large deposit towards the end of the quarter.
On an average balance basis our loan-to-deposit ratio was approximately 90% during the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
We continue to experience an improvement in our asset-quality statistics again this quarter.
Net charge-offs declined to $134 million or 1.11% of average loan balances for the second quarter and nonperforming assets are down to under a $1 billion at June 30 2011.
This is the first time since December 31 2007.
With respect to nonperforming assets during the second quarter we continue to liquidate nonperforming loans held for sale and other real estate loaned -- owned.
As shown on Page 24 of our earnings release NPLs held for sale and other real estate-owned balances declined to $42 million and $52 million at June 30 2011 decreases of $44 million and $45 million respectively from March 31 2011.
In total nonperforming assets are down more than $1.1 billion from the same period 1 year ago.
We were also successful in liquidating other real estate-owned at net gains resulting in a $3 million credit to OREO expense for the second quarter further supporting the carrying values that we have assigned to our nonperforming assets.
At June 30 2011 nonperforming loans were carried at 64% of their contractual amount owed and nonperforming assets in total were carried at approximately 60%.
For the second half of the year we continue to anticipate lower levels of nonperforming loans and net charge-offs and for the provision for loan losses to remain below the level of net charge-offs.
Turning to Slide 9.
For the second quarter of 2011 the company's taxable-equivalent net interest income was $570 million and the net interest margin was 3.19% down from $604 million and 3.25% for the first quarter of 2011.
The decline in the net interest income was in line with our previous guidance calling for a decline in average earning assets resulting from the repayment of TARP and the movement of escrow deposit balances late in the first quarter.
Average earning assets declined approximately $3.2 billion and the net interest margin contracted 6 basis points during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of this year.
Our expectation is for the net interest margin to remain under some pressure given the outlook for interest rates and our asset-sensitive position.
Further we are anticipating little change in the average earning assets in the coming quarter.
In total noninterest income was relatively unchanged for the second quarter compared to the first quarter and represented approximately 44% of total revenues for the company.
While total noninterest revenue didn't change materially between the first quarter and the second quarters there was movement in certain line items.
For example principal investing revenue declined $18 million and other revenue increased $24 million.
Of the change in other revenue $11 million is explained from improvement in commercial mortgage servicing revenue and $9 million is from the change of fair value of certain hedge instruments.
During the first quarter of this year we incurred additional amortization on certain mortgage servicing assets when we transferred the escrow deposits in March to another depository institution.
And during the second quarter we received additional income from special servicing we performed in our commercial mortgage servicing area.
Turning to Slide 10.
For the second quarter of 2011 total noninterest expense declined to $680 million from $701 million in the first quarter of 2011 and from $769 million for the same period 1 year ago.
During the second quarter personnel expense increased $9 million compared to the first quarter of 2011 primarily as a result of higher stock-based compensation.
During the first quarter we recorded a reduction in stock-based compensation due to forfeiture of performance-based restricted stock.
The second quarter returned to a more normal run rate for this particular expense item.
Non-personnel expense declined $30 million during the second quarter as a result of lower FDIC insurance a credit to other real estate expense resulting from gains on sales of property and a credit to the provision for unfunded commitments as we continued to see an improvement in credit quality.
Criticized assets decreased again this quarter falling 12.3% from the prior quarter.
Included on Slide 20 in the Appendix of today's materials is a quarterly trend in delinquencies as well as the change in criticized assets levels.
Through the second quarter of 2011 we have implemented $320 million of annualized expense savings putting us within our goal of $300 million to $375 million set more than 2 years ago.
Significant progress has been made in reducing the expenses of the company over the past 10 quarters and we will continue to seek additional cost savings in this challenging revenue environment.
However we will not be reporting specifically on Keyvolution going forward as we view the philosophy of Keyvolution as part of our normal operating rhythm.
Instead we will continue to manage our expenses and focusing on delivering solutions to our clients that they value.
Slide 11 shows our pretax pre-provision net revenue and return on average assets.
As expected pre-provision net revenue declined from the first quarter and is relatively unchanged from the period -- same period one year ago.
Also shown on this slide is our return on average assets for the second quarter of 2011 and the trend over the past 5 quarters.
The return on average assets for the second quarter was 1.23%.
Our return on average assets for the second quarter benefited from provision expense remaining low due to improving credit quality and well-managed expenses.
We continue to believe as provision expense normalizes and we execute on our client insight relationship strategy our results will be within our targeted range for return on average assets of 1% to 1.25%.
And finally turning to Slide 12.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common ratio both increased during the second quarter to 9.67% and 11.01% respectively at June 30 2011.
In addition book value and tangible book value per share increased this quarter to $9.88 and $8.90 per share at June 30 2011.
With strong capital reserves favorable migration of credit quality and an expense management culture in place we are well-positioned to focus on executing our business plans to grow and deepen our client base and deliver shareholder value.
That concludes our remarks.
And now we'll turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Craig Siegenthaler from Crdit Suisse.
First I just wonder if you could help us dissect the decline in the loan yields.
If you take a look at the 20 basis point decline in the C&amp;I yield from 1Q what was the rough contribution from rates competition and then maybe some unusual items like swaps runoff? Okay Craig this is Jeff Weeden.
The decline or the 20 basis point decline that we experienced in the C&amp;I loan yields in the first quarter there's a couple of important points to make.
One swaps contributed about 8 basis points of that decline so the swaps rolled off.
That cost us about 8 basis points.
But when we had also went out and looked at the impact we have a large degree of our loan portfolio that's variable rate and that's priced off of 1-month LIBOR as well as 3-month LIBOR.
So if you look at the average rate on LIBOR between the first quarter and the second quarter 1-month LIBOR was down about 6 basis points and 3-month LIBOR was down about 4.5 to 5 basis points.
So that also contributed probably about 3 to 4 basis points in that particular area.
And then we did see just as new spreads coming on are a little bit tighter.
So that also had an impact.
So the balance was really a tightening of the spreads.
But there's a lot of it that's explained by swaps and then just the change in LIBOR.
And then when we think about what you've seen so far in July in terms of competition and if we assume kind of let's say a flattish LIBOR flat interest rates in 3Q versus kind of that 8 basis points of competition you saw in the second quarter how are we trending thus far in the third quarter? Craig its Chris Gorman.
I think the pressure continues.
I think that as we look at both structure and pricing I would assume it would kind of go down another 5 basis points as people are looking for assets.
The interesting thing that we see is we see it from both sides.
We have a very big syndication business that we originate paper for our clients and distribute.
So we see it on that side of it.
And we also have a very big commercial loan mortgage business.
So we feel like we have a pretty good insight to where the market is.
And clearly structure is getting more aggressive as is pricing.
And then on the CD runoff $4.3 billion is running off in the third and fourth quarter.
Can you help us with the timing? Because I know it's very important if it's beginning middle or kind of end of quarter for this $4.3 billion.
Yes Craig this is Jeff again.
What we have specifically in the third there's about $2.4 billion that will roll off in the third quarter.
It's going to be about a 1.46% deal.
I think you have to look at -- there's a lot of that of course that will be in there that will be 7-day 30-day et cetera that just the normal runoff that continues to happen each and every quarter.
The bigger runoffs really happen in 2012 when we get into the higher costing some really of the more higher cost CDs out in the second and the third quarter.
And the third quarter has got the largest lock.
So there's about $1 billion in the third quarter of 2012 with an average rate of around 5%.
And we'll go next to Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
I guess my first question is just on capital.
Obviously your Tier 1 common has grown by I think it was like 27 basis points this quarter.
You're building capital which is great.
How do you -- maybe could you just review your capital priorities specifically if they relate to buybacks and potential acquisitions? Yes Ken this is Beth Mooney.
Clearly you're right.
We are in the era of generating new capital and we have said that disciplined capital management will be one of our priorities.
In 2011 when we submitted our plan to our regulators under the capital submission our priority at that time was the repayment of TARP in a shareholder-friendly manner as well as the increase of our dividend to $0.03.
Going forward as we look at how we manage our capital both for a return to shareholders as well as supporting our business increasing our dividend is important over time.
Share repurchase relative to our book value is clearly attractive.
And then it's important that we support our organic growth as well as we've said in the past we would look at potential opportunities to enhance our geographic footprint but that we would be disciplined and that we would make sure that it created franchise in shareholder value.
But those would be the primary goals of any capital management policy at this time.
And are you seeing any kind of buying and the willingness of sellers to participate in M&amp;A? We would not comment obviously on any market trends but we certainly as you have seen there has not been a lot of market activity yet this year.
Understood.
And then just the last question on expenses how much -- I understand you're basically done with Keyvolution but is there a way to quantify the additional expense savings you guys had mentioned about going forward? Or is that just sort of part of the ongoing business? And also is the $20 million reduction in FDIC insurance expenses sustainable going forward? Yes I think in terms of the -- I'll comment on the FDIC insurance first.
It appears to be sustainable simply because we've de-risked the overall company.
So the company has changed significantly I think in the last 3 years so we have a lot more Tier 1 capital at this particular point in time.
The quality of our investment portfolio is extremely high.
So there's a great deal of liquidity in the overall wholesale funding needs or the loan-to-deposit ratio has improved dramatically.
So we'll see obviously going forward on FDIC insurance will be significantly below where it has been for the prior quarters.
And we would expect something similar to what we experienced in the second quarter of this year.
Overall expense management and expense controls we haven't given any specific targets there.
It's really part and parcel to our culture for the organization to continue to manage expenses tightly and look for revenue opportunities.
We know that it's a challenging environment and it's just part of the culture of the organization.
And we'll go next to Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
This is Ron Placid [ph] on Matt's team.
You mentioned the NIM is expected to remain under pressure from here.
I guess how should we think about the trajectory of the NIM going forward compared to the 3.19% in 2Q? And just compared to your long-term target of greater than 3.5% what do we need to see from rates in the economy for Key to achieve that? This is Jeff Weeden again.
I think in terms of achieving the longer-term goal of above 3.5% we're going to have to see the overall rate environment increase.
So we certainly need an increase in short-term rates as well as going out to probably the 3 to 5 years on the yield curve which as we all know has been very much depressed here of recent.
And the prospects of that I would say of going up are not real high in the near term.
In terms of overall pressure on the margin I think just what we talked about we're talking about a little bit of pressure on some of the loan yields.
And so as asset yields come down a little bit we're repricing deposits which is why we provided the additional clarity I think around the CD book.
But the fundamental item there is that as yields come down on assets and we're asset-sensitive position that we're in right now it's going to continue to pressure the overall net interest margin as well as how much liquidity we have.
So liquidity has been extremely strong.
Deposits are continuing to be plentiful in the system overall.
And so that -- it just has a natural depressing impact on the net interest margin not necessarily net interest income.
Okay great.
And then just switching gears looking at credit.
In terms of quantifying reserve draw down from here with reserves to loans coming down to currently 2.6% how much should we expect the magnitude of reserve release to slow from here? Well we don't provide specific guidance with respect to reserve release because it is something that we go through mathematically each and every quarter.
We did provide the direction.
Our expectations would be for lower levels of nonperforming assets as well as lower levels of net charge-offs.
And I think as we continue to see the economy improve and you see the charge-off level really approaching that 1% level here in the second quarter that the trend on reserves is going to continue to come down.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
Just longer-term where do you see kind of the reserve level normalizing? Well that's a difficult question to answer.
I think in terms of what we had commented on even 6 months ago was that having the reserve over a cycle it could come down to 1.5% to 2%.
I really can't give you any more specifics than that because it does depend upon the quality and the size of the overall portfolio.
We'll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Jeff to your comments about pretax pre-provision it's obviously settled in off of the original fourth quarter high point.
And I'm just wondering if you're talking about the stable earning assets a little bit of margin pressure.
The fees look pretty good and then expenses you had a little help from provision expense.
And then we get the interchange stuff in the third quarter.
I'm just wondering are we at the point where pre pre is flattening? Or does that actually have to get -- is it once we get past the interchange run rating? I'm just wondering how close we are to flattening out on pretax pre-provision.
And where do you think it could range? Well I think there's -- last quarter we commented on a range of $300 million to $340 million as being plausible outcomes for the pre-provision net revenue.
I think you have to look at individual expense line items.
We have the gains in other real estate.
Other real estate balances are pretty low at this particular point in time.
So we're not looking for a significant expense in there.
But on a more normal level of expense would be somewhere around $5 million for that particular item.
And then I think in terms of the reserve for unfunded commitments that continues to track down.
But commitments are also starting to build again.
So we're having some success in clients actually taking out new commitments which we believe is a very healthy sign.
And so the trend in that may not be down for an extended time period.
So those are kind of offsetting items.
And then I think the net interest margin itself will remain under some pressure here just as generally as rates have been fairly low.
So if I adjust for the expenses and build in the impact of Durbin and then earning assets flat with a little margin pressure it would probably mean versus this quarter's $344 million were priced -- directionally have to move down.
But you're saying that that range is still pretty reasonable.
I believe that range is still pretty reasonable.
Okay great.
And then the second question I had was just credit quality is obviously continuing to get much better.
It did look like if I'm reading this right that inflows were up a little bit.
So I'm just wondering when you look across the portfolio is everything kind of still down and to the right? Or is there any things that you could worry about from a softening of the economy perspective at all? Ken this is Chuck Hyle.
I think generally speaking everything is moving down and to the right.
Quarter-to-quarter everything doesn't move in a nice easy trajectory.
Things can pump up a bit.
And I think our inflows this quarter were up with just a tad but a lot of things contribute to that.
And we're negotiating in a lot of different areas.
But I think not only are inflows up a little bit payments are also up.
Returns to accrual are also up.
There are a lot of things that go on in any given quarter kind of an arbitrary timeframe.
But I would say that the trend in all areas are moving in the right direction.
Some of them more slowly than others.
Clearly the business bank and the kind of consumer end of the business that didn't go up very much in terms of bad loans and so forth are coming down more slowly.
And that is probably the sector of our portfolio that's most closely tied to the economy.
So as the economy bumps along we expect the trajectory to -- the slope of that to come down a little bit more slowly.
But overall we're pleased with direction and feel quite comfortable that things are moving in the right direction.
We'll go next to Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just to follow up on Ken's question on the Community Bank level I did notice a spike up in the provision.
What were the dynamics that were underlying that spike? And are you getting more worried about your core home equity debt service performance as the economic recovery stagnates? This is Jeff Weeden.
I think what we were -- what you saw in the current quarter was that there were some reserves that were allocated around in some of the business units where we saw some risk.
But I don't think it was more than just the net charge-offs.
So in that particular book it was just a replenishment of the net charge-offs.
I think as Chuck talked about some of those particular books have not seen the improvement overall improvement but they did not have the amount of degradation earlier.
And so charge-offs and provision have just kind of normalized and matched themselves in that particular book for the second quarter.
Okay.
And in terms of Beth's comment with regards to an inflection point in loan balances Jeff you mentioned that the exit portfolio runoff is going to decline to a $250 million to $325 million range.
I was wondering if you could help us fill the blanks in terms of how much you expect for runoff -- continued runoff in CRE.
What kind of growth you are expecting out of your consumer core portfolio and given your commentary about how the confidence is not quite where it should be given where we are in the economy recovery what you're expecting for C&amp;I for the rest of the year.
I'll comment on the -- some of the other books that we've had.
The runoff portfolio we do expect to go down about $250 million to $325 million but that's kind of like normal amortization that we're going to see from that.
I think Chris Gorman can comment on the CRE book and both Chris and Bill Taylor can talk about kind of what they're seeing in the other portfolios.
Sure Jeff.
Erika I'll start with the real estate book because that's the biggest piece.
And we had a runoff of about 10% quarter-over-quarter which was about $900 million which is in keeping with what we anticipated.
Jeff mentioned in his comments that we expect that portfolio to stabilize in Q3 and have growth in Q4.
That's still our view.
We had pretty good visibility as to what was going out of there.
That's the biggest number.
The second portfolio would be our national leasing business.
That portfolio has in fact been stable over the past year and we feel very good about where that portfolio is going.
We have a big exposure to technology to software and to medical equipment and that typically is a late year capital cycle.
So we feel good about that business.
And then lastly our institutional and capital markets business enjoyed a 10% growth quarter-over-quarter which was $400 million.
We feel very good about where we are in that business going forward.
We have a very large syndication pipeline which gives us very clear visibility for continued growth in that portfolio.
So from the Corporate Banking perspective we think we in fact have reached that inflection point and are focused on getting growth in the back half of the year.
So the inflection point comment is just from the Corporate Banking on the Corporate Banking piece of the business not the total -- not on total loan balances? Total loan balances is what we're talking about because we are saying that the growth that we are seeing overall both in our commercial C&amp;I book as well is the fact that we've come down fairly rapidly because of the liquidity in the marketplace on CRE gives us this greater confidence that we're not going to see as much decline and that's what was in our comments as much decline in the third quarter in CRE and may in fact see a build in that particular book.
With the strong pipelines that we have overall we actually expect to see growth in the book in the fourth quarter.
But we're not forecasting in a specific amount or anything but it appears that we've reset inflection point and we've started to see growth overall in the portfolio.
And the reason we always start by talking about real estate is it really obfuscates a lot that's going on in the rest of the bank because the numbers are so significant.
And Erika to your question why don't we let Bill Koehler augment on his view on the Community Bank because we have noted healthy pipelines across all our businesses and stabilization in a number of portfolios.
So Bill why don't you share your view of the Community Bank? As we've looked Erika at activity in our commercial businesses the middle market continues to be strong.
This will be I think the third straight quarter of strength in middle market in terms of loan growth.
And the pipelines are still good.
We had some pull-through.
So there's a little bit of downdraft in the pipeline but that's simply related to pull-through from the previous quarter.
And in business banking we had a very strong quarter in business banking.
Our approvals are up across the board from small business sort of traditional business banking as well as SBA.
If you go back a couple of quarters we would have said approvals were largely coming in the form of SBA.
And now it's much more balanced across all the subsegments of our small business activities.
On consumer the home equity has stabilized at least this past quarter and with having the loan balances declined at a much lower rate than previous quarters.
So we're seeing activity much broader across the Community Bank than we would have seen over the past 2 quarters from a loan demand perspective.
That was very clear.
And my one last question is for Beth.
I know that as you've come into your position you've been very busy executing on the business plan goals that you laid out.
But have you had a time to sit down and really think about Key's strategy in a more wholesale holistic manner in terms of whether -- currently as Key stands you're in the right geographies and you're in the right businesses.
Erika that's a good question because as we sit here today we are in the process of finalizing our strategic plans for the coming year.
And I would tell you we feel even more confident about our business plan and where the company is positioned to compete in the marketplace.
We feel like we have built something very distinctive with our relationship-based locally-delivered Community Bank our unique expertise capabilities and range of products and services in our Corporate Bank.
So both sides of the bank we believe are distinctive and well-positioned to compete.
And the segment that we've been talking is that we feel like has really really added to the robustness of our business model is the collaboration that we built and the cross-business opportunities between the Community Bank and the Corporate Bank.
Each are seeing opportunities and revenue and client growth that they would not have without the other.
So that alignment of our corporate Community Bank around our targeted verticals in our market is serving us well.
We believe that it's less than an ideal operating environment but we're gaining traction.
And we see that we are winning with our clients which to us validates the notion that we need to execute this strategy stay focused start showing organic growth and couple that with our capital management.
I did as you said I've been very busy over the last couple of months.
But I did meet with many of our institutional shareholders and I've heard and understood that their expectations are for profitable growth continuing strengthening of our risk profile and for disciplined capital management.
And we feel like we are positioned to deliver those with the strategies and the markets we serve.
And when will you unveil this plan? Is it in conjunction with your fourth quarter call or perhaps during the fall conference season? Erika it's not a different plan.
I think it's our ongoing annual process that we have where we constantly look at our strategies and validate them.
So we go to various investor conferences and outline our priorities our strategies how we believe we're competitive and distinct.
We will continue the dialogue.
And if there are changes or nuances we will always highlight those.
But I think as we have taken our stake in the ground about executing on our business plan focusing in on organic growth and disciplined capital management for our roadmap to how we're going to maximize shareholder value we are very focused on continuing on that path.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Maybe I'll start I want to just clarify what Chris Gorman just said.
You're saying that the $9.7 billion pre-book you expect to be stable in the third quarter and then maybe share growth in the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering what's changing here.
Is the runoff slowing or you just have more of an appetite to add new commercial real estate and offset this runoff here? Steve there's a few things going on there.
One is that we have very opportunistically delevered a lot of our clients gone to the equity markets gone to the commercial loan mortgage market.
So that process has really kind of run through.
The second thing that's happened is we have now successfully transitioned that book.
When we started we had about 60% of that book that was in construction.
Today that rests at 16%.
And then at the same time in keeping with what Beth was talking about working very closely with the Community Bank we really targeted these owners of real estate.
And we're getting a lot of traction.
We have a lot of traction in the REIT business already.
I think we lead 17% of all the publicly-traded REITs in a financing perspective.
But we're also now getting a lot of traction with these owners of real estate.
So not only are the exits diminishing but we're getting a build in the pipeline.
Okay that's helpful.
And I just want to follow-up a question on cost saves.
For Beth given your experience on the retail side would you consider more aggressive branch reduction strategy to drive costs down? And any thoughts on even selling off parts of the branch network that might be a drag on overall profitability? Steven yes I would -- I'll be glad to elaborate on that.
First in terms of our network we have looked at the distribution of our markets and all are contributing and accretive to Key.
But clearly with some of the economics in the retail and consumer segment we are still very focused on our cost structure from I think I mentioned in the call our cost infrastructure under our consumer payments how we utilize various lower cost channels to make sure that we're adding to our convenience.
And on the branch front while we continue to invest and build branches in some of our priority markets in Seattle Portland and Denver we also have if you look at our branch growth in any given quarter we're using this as an opportunity to consolidate close and reposition some of our fleet.
So it is not a growth net 40 it is a growth 40.
So we are constantly looking at how we can strengthen become more cost-effective and be well-positioned to compete in our market.
But we do have a continuing eye in these economic headwinds as well as revenue headwinds specifically in that segment for trying to make sure we're optimizing our cost over time.
Maybe to follow up.
I know that there are some banks selling branch networks out there.
The drive to be more efficient in the branch network do you think you're more likely to add to the network to get to those efficiencies or actually shrink the size of the network? I think we always look at all options to say what is the best mix for Key in this market given our attributes.
So I would tell you that we have a very robust process as we look at our market density.
And we'll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
My question first is if Beth could elaborate a little bit more on maybe kind of strategic differences that a she [ph] CEO versus the past? Mike I'll be glad to take that question.
One thing I have said at a variety of our investor conferences that I participated in over the most recent months is much of our strategy has been developed over the last 1 to 2 years within the management team here.
And part of the reason that I believe the board was comfortable in an internal succession candidate is I was an architect of many of those pieces of our strategy.
So I feel fundamentally very solid about our Community Bank focused to local delivery relationship-based and service-based approach to our markets and feel like we have really validated that business model and it's got a lot of traction.
Under Chris Gorman's leadership the Corporate Bank has gotten very focused about its targeted vertical how to make sure that we had the right business mix and leasing commercial real estate.
I think you heard him talk about a number of those areas as well as our distinctive capabilities in our capital markets group.
The real real winner we believe for us and we think we're in early innings will be how we are truly aligning our Corporate and Community Bank serving a continuum of our customers with capabilities that we think are: a distinctive for a regional bank; and that b we don't see other competitors really trying to deliver into the middle market which we're defining as companies from say $25 million in revenues to just around $1 billion.
So we have lots of success where we're getting cross-referrals bringing our whole team to targeted clients.
And we see ourselves not just landing lending and treasury management but really being poised to offer debt in capital market capabilities.
We have a number of wins across the bank and feel like that's distinctive.
And we feel like we have adequate levers in our branch network to address some of the revenue headwinds that are specifically hitting the consumer segment and retail segments of our businesses.
So if we look at our strategy we like where we are.
And our mantra is we need to stay the course execute this business plan talk about our results and our strengths and weaknesses with clarity and transparency and prove that this can organically grow our franchise and create value.
To assist with the transition is Henry Meyer on board as a consultant for maybe a year or so? If you would have seen in the proxy as well as our announcement at around the April timeframe Henry will stay on as a year in a consulting basis.
He is not an officer of the company.
It is largely around what I would call Henry has a Rolodex that is second to none and as I stay very very focused on executing our business plans to making sure we really gain the momentum and traction that we believe is on the horizon asked him to stay with me on community civic and some industry groups where I can leverage his knowledge expertise in Rolodex and I can make sure that we are head down on our business plans.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Brent Erensel with Portales Partners.
First of all given the dynamics of the pretax pre-provision what you mentioned about the inflection point with the lending the headwind from Durbin.
How do you break out of the current 1.28% ROE that you just reported? Well I think -- this is Jeff Weeden.
Our stated objective is from 1% to 1.25%.
Right now it's been a little bit higher than that or the upper end of the range of that for the last several quarters.
That's driven by the fact that we've had overall credit improvement.
We've had some benefit associated with that.
I think in terms of really getting the pre-provision profitability of the organization going longer-term we're going to have to see generally an increase in interest rates and then overall growth in the lending activities and other activities of our clients.
So as our clients continue to gain more confidence and business activity improves I think that's where we'll continue to see -- that's when we'll see some of the overall growth.
But until that point in time we're talking about the range on pre-provision profitability of really being between $300 million and $340 million.
Again and a quick follow-up have you entertained a buyback in the current environment? Well I think with respect to buybacks I think Beth has commented on this before.
But whatever we do has to go through the board.
Board has to go through their analysis of it.
And then in today's environment it has to go through a regulatory review process.
So I think in terms of our comments on that we spoke specifically about the fact that the next time that we go out -- in for the overall annual review that the regulators will conduct again of at least the 19 banks if not more than that.
That will be part and parcel to our overall plans for coming time periods.
But anything that you do along those particular lines does require the non-objection of your regulators.
And we'll go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Just to -- I wanted to follow-up a little bit and pardon this question being a little -- being pretty detail-focused.
But you mentioned that commitments have been rising on the commercial side.
I'm just curious over the course of the past 3 to 4 months have you seen an improvement stability or reduction in what I would refer to as commitments to commit? Are more customers coming to you looking for commitments now? Or could you just characterize sort of the trend in your commercial commitments over the last few quarters? I'll comment just briefly on it because I specifically looked at what we are seeing.
Beth commented about new and renewed commitments.
And her comments there earlier I believe was like $9.3 billion to $9.6 billion.
I don't have the exact number here to put my finger on it.
But I did look specifically at the overall trend in commitments.
And what we saw in the trend in commitments we saw it in the first quarter.
We saw that the -- going in the third month of the quarter was the strongest.
And we continue to see strength build in the second quarter for approved new commitments.
So if I were to look at each of the months April May through June we saw building of approved commitments that got recorded.
And we've also seen a commensurate increase in the size of our pipelines over time related to that.
Matt it's Chris.
I'm not sure that there's much more activity out there.
I think we're winning in the marketplace.
We were just doing in analysis I think at the end of the year we think we'll -- 8% of our client base will be new.
So I don't know if it's that we're being more effective in our targeted calling or that there is a whole lot more opportunity from a whole market perspective out there.
LLC</strong> And I guess my follow-up focuses on Slide 10 with the average FTE graph.
Obviously the Keyvolution and some other steps that you've taken have reduced the average FTEs over the past couple of years.
I'm just curious from where you sit today at about 15 300 where what your thoughts are in terms of that number moving higher.
Or is this going to stay pretty stable for the next 2 to 3 quarters? This is Jeff Weeden.
The overall trend will probably remain fairly stable.
We typically have seasonal tracking of just when you have additional vacations.
So you end up with having some seasonal temporary help that comes on in the summer months.
But we are continuing to add people in select areas where we can drive revenue so we're making those particular investments.
And of course we've been also adding additional branches to our network which will come with additional staffing.
But we still have other initiatives that we're executing on within Keyvolution.
And as we continue to execute on those those will also have some of a dampening impact on the overall change in the FTE counts for the organization.
And we'll go next to Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Just want to dig deeper into Beth's response to Steve's question about just Key's M&amp;A strategy.
It seems like in the past it's been -- Key would want to have 10% of the branches in each market.
We can all do that analysis and see most of that is West of the Mississippi.
It sounds like your response today suggested that maybe Key is willing to pursue a transaction where they already have significant market share that maybe there is a benefit of going from 20% to 30% in certain markets particularly if there's an opportunity to cut costs.
I just want to make sure I interpreted Beth's response correctly there.
Terry this is Beth.
How about I will clarify that? If you look at the focus of our de novo build where we as you said our Western markets we are not at that 10% threshold of branch share.
That is where we have concentrated our new growth opportunities in terms of de novos.
But I think we've always said in the past that our geographic distribution creates opportunities if there was ever consolidation opportunities within our industry because of the diversity of our markets as well as our market share in many different places.
Opportunistically you would look at whether something enhanced your franchise value or enhanced -- and enhanced your shareholder value.
So we have always said when it comes to potential for M&amp;A acquisition that our geographic distribution could create opportunity across the spectrum but we are concentrating our new builds in the West.
And we'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Regarding the growth that you're hoping or anticipating in the commercial real estate portfolio towards the end of the year do you guys have any targeted levels that you want to manage the commercial real estate portfolio too as a percentage of total loans? And second as part of that is there any parts of the -- is there going to be in footprint commercial real estate lending that you're going to see the growth versus the outer footprint that was done during the boom times? Sure I'm Chuck Hyle.
Let me take a stab at that.
I think we're not targeting a specific number.
We look at the total portfolio all the time.
We look for concentrations.
We look for correlations.
And I think that having brought the construction and residential commercial real estate part of our portfolio down quite dramatically almost to nothing the composition of our commercial real estate book is really quite different than it was a couple of years ago.
And as a result with all the construction largely out of the portfolio and moving to owners of real estate REITs and larger players in that particular market I think the number that we've come down to and it was referenced earlier we will probably see some increase in that part of the portfolio.
In terms of the other part of your question we have completely deemphasized construction.
It doesn't say that we won't do the occasional transaction from a major player but we've really deemphasized that.
And to the extent that we do we would play closer to home in terms of footprint.
So the composition of our commercial real estate business as Chris alluded to earlier has changed quite dramatically.
LLC</strong> And then second question was on the business plan or the metric you guys managed too on Page 4 of the slides.
How often when you go to review and update this page is it once a year in your August meeting possibly? And as part of that what should we expect for the provision? You said the net charge of these average loans should reach about 40 to 50 basis points.
Do you guys think once your reserve gets to a level that you feel is adequate that the provision should equal net charge-offs? Well I think -- Gerard this is Jeff.
I think over time you'll see that migration towards the net charge-off level.
But I think also you have to look at the overall quality of the portfolio too so that will have a change in it.
It may match charge-offs or it may be greater than charge-offs in some time periods too depending upon the overall direction of the credit and the size of the overall portfolio.
But that will probably be a good proxy once we get to whatever normal is.
That number Gerard would really reflect our core business rather than some of the exit businesses that we're still working our way out of which obviously have higher charge-off numbers in it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of the review of all the metrics do you guys do it once a year or every other year? Or how often is the look back? Well we review it on a regular basis probably for change though.
It's more on the annual process when we go and update our long-term plan.
So as we go through that with the board we start the process even this week and go through it through the next 2 meetings with the board as we get ready to get into 2012 and set the targets basically for '12 '13 and '14.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vernon Patterson Chris Sikora.
And their number is (216)689-4221.
And that concludes our remarks today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of our key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question and answer segment of our call today.
Now if you would please turn to Slide 3.
This morning we announced third quarter net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $229 million or $0.24 per common share.
Our results reflect continued improvement in credit quality good expense control and the ongoing execution of our business plan.
Key's favorable credit quality trends have benefited from the actions taken to improve our risk profile and our early recognition and resolution of problem credits.
Key's net charge-offs to average loans declined to 90 basis points which is our seventh consecutive quarterly improvement and the first time that it has been below 1% since the first quarter of 2008.
Nonperforming assets continue to decline during the third quarter representing the eighth consecutive quarterly decline.
We also reached an inflection point in our loan portfolio.
Period-end loan balances increased in the third quarter reflecting the progress we've made in repositioning our business and a 5.7% increase in our commercial financial and agricultural portfolio.
This increase in our CF&amp;A loans was driven by continued activity in the industrial sector as well as increases in middle market lending in all 3 of our geographic regions.
The increase in loan balances also reflects our ability to leverage the alignment of our organization across business lines to deliver value to our clients as well as identify share and convert new opportunities.
We remain focused on our targeted client segments and in supporting small and medium-size businesses.
To that end Key recently announced that it will provide $5 billion in loans to qualified small business owners over the next 3 years.
We believe that this is an important initiative to foster growth and expansion which are critical to job creation.
We are also focusing on sustaining and building noninterest income which is critically important given the headwinds from regulatory changes.
As Jeff will discuss in our financial review consistent with general industry trends we saw a reduction in the third quarter in some of our market-sensitive businesses including investment banking and capital markets.
This was offset by higher net gains in our principal investing business for the quarter.
We have been active in implementing strategies to impact -- mitigate the impact of the new debit card rule.
These strategies are focused on retaining and expanding our engaged client relationships by offering client choices aligned with their needs and preferences and we are in the process of reviewing how to reduce the cost structure of our Consumer Payments business.
At a time when many competitors are raising fees and eliminating or deemphasizing customer rewards we believe that we can differentiate Key in the marketplace by offering exceptional service and a more compelling value proposition to our clients.
In the third quarter we launched our enhanced relationship rewards program which is our unique response to Durbin and the changing regulatory environment.
By staying true to our client insight approach we took the time to listen to our clients and identified what is important to them.
Key's new program will reward customers for taking advantage of our full range of services and for choosing Key as their primary bank.
We believe this will help us drive new client acquisition and deepen relationships with our existing clients.
The final item on this slide focuses on capital management.
Key ended the third quarter in a strong position with our Tier 1 common equity ratio at 11.34% and our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio at 13.55%.
These levels should place us in the top quartile of our peer group and position us for a successful transition to Basel III.
Our strong capital position provides us with the flexibility to support our clients and our business needs and evaluate other appropriate capital deployment opportunities.
We are currently in the process of finalizing and presenting our 2012 financial plan to our board which will then become our base case for our capital plan submission to our regulators.
While we continue to wait guidelines for the 2012 process we preliminarily expect our capital planning process to include an assessment of certain capital distributions including potential dividend increases and share repurchases in the future.
On Slide 4 we showed the progress that we continue to make on our long-term goal.
On a number of these measures we are currently within our targeted range including maintaining a high quality and a diverse revenue mix and we are continuing to make progress on other measures such as returning to a moderate risk profile and bringing asset quality within our targeted range.
And at the bottom of this slide you can see that our return on average assets for the third quarter was 1.14% which was also within our targeted range.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff let me conclude by saying our third quarter results demonstrate consistent positive momentum for Key as we continue executing our relationship strategy.
Despite the uneven pace of the recovery and regulatory changes we are gaining traction in both the Community Bank and the Corporate Bank and we believe we have the right business model to compete and win in the marketplace.
With a strong foundation of our strong balance sheet in place we are well-positioned to organically grow our franchise and remain disciplined with respect to expense and capital management.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a review of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's third quarter 2011 results from continuing operations.
As Beth commented on earlier for the third quarter the company earned a net profit of $0.24 per common share compared to $0.26 for the second quarter of this year and $0.19 for the same period one year ago.
Overall we were encouraged by the continued progress we experienced in credit quality loan demand and expense management during the third quarter.
Over the next several slides we will review in more detail the results from the current quarter.
Turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans declined $446 million during the third quarter compared to the second quarter of this year.
However this doesn't reflect the underlying strength that we saw in our commercial client base with commercial and industrial loans increasing 2.7% linked quarter on annualized.
And as Beth mentioned on an ending balance basis we saw our total loan portfolio increased $355 million or 0.7% on annualized.
This was the first period end -- the period end increase in the total portfolio since the third quarter of 2008.
As a result of this period-end balance increase our pipeline of lending opportunities remaining solid and the reduced levels of run-off and balances in our exit portfolio we believe we have reached an inflection point in our loans where we can begin to show an increase in average balances going forward.
While our clients remain cautious about the world economic conditions they are making capital investments in their operations and taking advantage of historically low interest rates and available liquidity for lending.
Another encouraging sign of where we are winning with our clients came from the increase in our commercial financial and agricultural loan commitments during the quarter.
This was the second consecutive quarter where we experienced an increase in total CF&amp;A commitments and an increase in utilization rates by our clients.
Moving to Slide 8.
On the deposit side of the balance sheet our trend of improving mix of deposits continued during the third quarter where we experienced an -- where we experienced a $1.2 billion or 2.8% annualized increase in non-time deposits.
As noted on this slide average balances of time deposits declined approximately $700 million during the third quarter.
And at quarter end we had $11.2 billion in time deposits outstanding.
We have identified under the Highlights section of this slide the scheduled maturities of our CD book and the rates that apply to these balances.
Approximately 74% of the CDs outstanding at September 30 mature over the next 5 quarters allowing us the opportunity for continued repricing of the book.
And as a point of reference the weighted average rate paid on new and renewed CDs during the third quarter is 25 basis points.
Turning to Slide 9.
We continue to experience an improvement in our asset quality statistics again this quarter.
Net charge-offs declined to $109 million or 90 basis points of average loan balances from the third quarter.
As Beth mentioned this was the first time since the first quarter of 2008 that our net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans was below 1%.
In addition our nonperforming loans declined to 1.64% of period-end loans at September 30 2011.
Our reserve for loan losses stood at $1.1 billion or 2.35% of period-end loans and represented 143.5% coverage of nonperforming loans at September 30 2011.
As we have identified on Page 21 in the Appendix of today's materials criticized loans outstanding continued to decline during the third quarter.
For the fourth quarter we anticipate nonperforming loans to continue to trend lower for our net charge-offs to be relatively comparable to the third quarter level and for the provision for loan losses to remain below the level of net charge-offs.
Turning to Slide 10.
For the third quarter of 2011 the company's taxable equivalent net interest income was $555 million and the net interest margin was 3.09% down from $570 million and 3.19% for the second quarter of this year.
Average earning assets were relatively stable for the third quarter compared to the second quarter with loans and investment securities down approximately $1 billion and short-term investments up approximately $1.4 billion.
This shift in mix explains the majority of the pressure on our net interest margin for the third quarter.
Our expectation is for the net interest margin to be stable to up and for average earning assets to remain relatively stable for the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Helping reverse some of this margin pressure is the expectation of modest improvement in the mix of assets with short-term liquidity coming down as it is redeployed for debt maturities and for the expectation of growth in our loan balances and continued improvement in the mix of deposits compared to the prior quarter.
Looking at noninterest income we experienced an increase in gains from principal investing of $17 million as well as gains associated with the redemption of certain capital securities in the amount of $13 million during the third quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011.
In addition we saw growth in deposit service charge income and letter of credit and loan fee income for the current quarter.
These increases helped offset declines in our investment banking and capital markets income as well as trust and investment services income.
Both market sensitive areas were impacted by the market conditions that existed during the third quarter.
Also as we look at the fourth quarter the effect of the new pricing controls on debit transactions are estimated to negatively impact our revenue by $12 million to $15 million per quarter before implementation of mitigation strategies.
Turning to Slide 11.
Expenses remained well controlled for the third quarter of 2011.
For the current quarter noninterest expense was $692 million up from $680 million for the second quarter of 2011.
The change between the third quarter and the second quarter can be largely explained by a reduction in the credit to the expense for the reserve for unfunded commitments which declined by $11 million to a net credit of $1 million for the third quarter.
Also of note was the continued favorable experience we had during the third quarter related to other real estate expense resulting from gains on dispositions of property helping to offset operating expense and valuation adjustments in this area.
For the third quarter other real estate expense was an expense of $1 million versus a credit of $3 million for the second quarter of this year.
Slide 12 shows our pretax pre-provision net revenue and return on average assets.
Pre-provision net revenue at $346 million for the third quarter was relatively unchanged from the second quarter of 2011.
As effective expense control better results from principal investing and gains associated with the redemption of the capital securities more than offset the decline in net interest income and the decline in market-sensitive revenue from investment banking and capital markets activities during the current quarter.
Also shown on this slide are a return on assets for the past 5 quarters.
The return on average assets for the third quarter was 1.14%.
Our return on average assets for the third quarter continued to benefit from provision expense remaining low due to improving credit quality and well-managed expenses.
And finally turning to Slide 13.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both increased during the third quarter to 9.82% and 11.34% respectively at September 30 2011 placing us in the top quartile of our peer group on these ratios.
In addition both book value and tangible book value per share increased this quarter to $10.09 and $9.10 per share respectively at September 30.
As Beth mentioned in her comments we are in the process of finalizing our 2012 profit and capital plan at this time.
This is critical input to our CCAR submission that we expect to complete during the fourth quarter and submit to regulators with our 2012 capital action request.
At this time we are in the process of updating our own stress test scenarios and we like others in the industry will need to incorporate into our analysis the regulatory stress test once it is available.
Beth further commented on our priorities with respect to capital management which will include reviewing the dividend for possible increase and seeking authority around potential share repurchases.
However until we have additional transparency into the 2012 CCAR process we are not able to comment further on this at this time.
That concludes our remarks.
And now we'll return the call to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call today.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jeff regarding the capital plan that's being submitted can you just help us understand the timing of when we should expect to see the outcome from this? Well we really -- we don't know when the outcome is going to take place because we haven't received the instructions yet from the regulators.
As I commented on all of us in the industry are really waiting for the process to be further articulated by the regulators.
Once we have that then we'll be in a better position to give some type of indication as to when we would expect to see things coming out but I would assume that the regulators would make that public as to what their timing would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay but we shouldn't expect you to move forward for any type of buybacks or anything this year then.
We won't know until early next year? That is correct.
It will be a 2012 event.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one follow-up on the margin guidance you just gave.
How sensitive is that to you delivering loan growth to see that margin stabilized or be up slightly in 4Q? Well I think if you look at our ending balance basis we think that average balances will be up in the fourth quarter and it does have some degree of sensitivity associated with it using our short-term liquidity.
So we have 2 things in the guidance that were provided.
One is that we have debt that matures here in the fourth quarter.
And the second item that we have provided is that we expect to have loan growth so there is some degree of sensitivity associated with that.
The thing that would be negative against that is just that we have a much larger inflow of deposits and we'd still end up with some short-term investments.
But net interest income should be up in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to ask another capital question since we don't necessarily know the answer at this point.
But would you hope that when you submit your capital planning process that you can draw down on some of your capital versus just use projected earnings power to deploy capital? Because obviously your Tier 1 comment of -- it's about 12% quite high -- or sorry 11% and probably 2% 3% above where you'll need to be.
Is there hope that you can draw that down? Again I realize you don't know but would that be the hope? I think that you answered it.
We don't know at this particular point in time.
We have to wait to see greater transparency coming out of the process and of course ongoing dialogue that we may have as the process unflow -- unfolds here.
So we're not able to respond any further at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just elsewhere on the expenses.
You just finished up an expense initiative a quarter or 2 ago expenses came in a little bit less than the low end that you've been projecting.
And at the same time the revenue outlook is a little bit more challenging.
How should we think about just the investments spend and the expense base heading into say 2012? Well we haven't provided specific guidance on 2012 at this point in time Matt.
But suffice it to say that while we stopped reporting on our expense initiative it is still alive and running in the organization so we're still focused on expenses.
I think both Beth and I commented on it that expenses do remain well managed and controlled.
And we're going to have to continue to stay on top of that in this somewhat challenging revenue environment.
Our next question comes from Ken Houston with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
My question is on your pre-provision near-term outlook.
It looks like it came in around 3.33% this quarter.
And if we assume I'm just wondering what your outlook is in 4Q.
If we assume we got a little bit of growth in NII and you have the Durbin impact hitting but then on the flip side you also typically get a pickup in 4Q in investment banking fees.
So could you give us kind of a sense of what pre-provision could have looked like next quarter? Well we've talked about in the past a range of around $300 million to $340 million.
That's been the prior range that we provided.
I think in terms of looking at the fourth quarter we do expect to see a little bit of an increase in our net interest income.
I think in terms of expenses they'll still be very well controlled.
I think on the fee revenue side of the equation there are a couple of things there that just looking at the gain that we had on the redemption of the trust preferred securities as well as principal investing was very strong here in the current quarter.
So those would probably be not as strong -- principal investing won't be as strong in the fourth quarter would be the expectation.
And then also we wouldn't have the gain on the trust preferreds that we had in the third quarter.
So if I were to guide in that particular level it would be most likely below what we experienced just because of those 2 items that we had during the current quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one follow-up.
You guys mentioned last quarter that CRE balances could stabilize or even grow by the fourth quarter of '11 is that still the outlook and can you just discuss some of the trends you're seeing within that portfolio? Well I think in terms of the CRE real estate capital line of business itself is actually doing quite well.
Some of the clients still are more on the C&amp;I book rather than the CRE book.
So the trend obviously if you look at the average balance basis the trend there is still going to be lower on average balances simply because ending balances were below the average for the quarter.
Chris do you have anything else you'd like to comment on? Sure Jeff.
I mean Bryan there's a couple of buckets.
There's Key overall and I think point-to-point we're probably down something like 3% Key overall.
The preponderance of the real estate loans are in the real estate line of business.
And that gets a little more interesting in that if you look at our real estate line of business on an average basis we're down call it $700 million or 8.1%.
But on a point-to-point we're actually up $20 million and we have a pretty decent pipeline.
So we feel pretty good about the comment that it was going to stabilize in the third quarter and grow in the fourth.
We'll go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> One question I'm sorry if you've already gone over this.
I jumped on the call just a couple of minutes late.
But in terms of commercial-industrial loan yields it looks like those were down about 15 basis points.
I'm curious as to what was driving that.
What the effect of the swaps in that portfolio might have been? But I guess in the bigger picture are you seeing greater competition in that business? What are the pricing of commitments in that business? And did the increase in LIBOR over the quarter actually helped in terms of the yield of the loans that you put on in the balance sheet in the third quarter? This is Jeff Weeden.
I'll ask my colleagues to comment on that in just a second.
But with respect to the swap book it had very little impact very little during the current quarter.
Almost 0 impact there so only a minor drag on that.
I think the overall yield as you have pointed out was down but at 3.98% is certainly in line as we looked at the pure comparisons.
And it's also a remixing of the book.
You have older loans that are rolling off.
You have newer loans that are coming on.
But I know that the rest of the team could comment on what they're seeing from the competitive front.
Matt this is Bill Koehler.
I would say the market is competitive but I wouldn't say it's any more competitive today than it was a quarter or two ago.
We do see pressure on pricing in any given situation on any given day.
It has been more in the form of pricing and at least in the middle market less on structure but we are seeing some pressure on structure in any given situation.
Our yields and spreads have held up by and large and we think that's an indication of the strength of our relationship strategy.
So Matt it's Chris Gorman.
Just to augment Jeff and Bill's comment a bit.
I think Jeff is spot on.
Because we are winning a lot of new clients we have a lot of newer loans that are replacing older ones.
For example on the corporate bank on a C&amp;I basis point-to-point we're up about 14% just in the last quarter.
And underneath that there's a fair amount of movement so that's I think the biggest factor.
In terms of our competitive perspective we still see C&amp;I book for kind of crossover credits 225 bps over LIBOR or so.
We see that holding.
And in terms of structure I would say with spreads blowing out in August and September I think structure has actually become more favorable and pricing on the margin is more favorable during the last 60 days.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Jeff just a very administrative question.
In terms of the FDIC expense should we expect that to continue to be at sort of a high single-digit number on a quarterly basis going into 2012? Well for the time being I think that's a reasonable expectation given our overall risk profile of the company.
Our FDIC insurance certainly has come down significantly.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Mike Turner with Campas Point Investment.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just two ones in the -- other income line item was there anything unusual in there? I know it's a little higher last quarter and then it was even higher yet again in the third quarter.
We did have a $13 million gain that we identified associated with the redemption of our trust preferred securities.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
That's right.
You pointed that out earlier.
And also separately what's kind of just from the 10 000-foot view what's gross loan yields originations? What did they look like for the third quarter? I know there's a number of different products to wait that across.
But at least relative to kind of your overall loan portfolio at $450 million? Well I think what we would talk about here.
We have several other books that are in exit.
So if you look at the Marine book and some of the national home equity book those are higher yield and those are in exit but there's no new originations that are taking place.
I think Chris Gorman just commented on a lot of them are in the LIBOR plus 2 in the quarter range that for new originations on the commercial side of the equation.
I don't know Bill what you...
I would say in the Middle Market again you got -- it depends on the risk profile but we'll see LIBOR plus 2 in the quarter and some of the more leveraged credits and you could be down in the LIBOR plus 150 and some that are stronger.
So that's probably a decent range.
And even higher than LIBOR plus 200 300 400 too.
It depends on -- everything depends on a risk profile.
I would add as you look at our real estate book which we just chatted about the new originations there would look to be kind of 275 280 over LIBOR.
We'll go next to Russell Gunther with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just quickly on the reserves.
If you could widen your comments for net new loan growth going forward and the provision to be below NCOs.
Could you give us a sense in terms of the magnitude that you might draw down the reserve and where you're comfortable as a floor? Well it's difficult to give you that exact amount until we see kind of how the ending credit balances end up.
So there still -- the expectation is the charge-offs will exceed the amount of the provision and that we are in a longer-term cycle coming down here in terms of overall nonperforming loans criticized or identified in the materials today also continue to decline.
So I think in terms of how we're going to have to look at this charge-offs now for the third quarter on an annualized basis were at 90 basis points.
The reserve is at 235.
So depending on how that outlook continues to look which still seems to be a favorable trend in place.
It will be coming down but I can't tell you what the floor may be.
I don't think that there's -- In GAAP I don't think there is "a floor that would apply." So you have to kind of look at how it builds up each and every quarter.
We'll go next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth kind of a strategic question for you.
I mean I think you would agree that in the past KeyCorp has been sort of a deposit and liquidity-challenged company.
Do you see that having permanently changed right now? And has that if it has has that impacted your thinking on what you might be doing in terms of shaping the company geographically in the future? Yes Nancy that's a great question.
And I do think as we talk about the fact we have fundamentally repositioned our business mix our risk profile and our company part and parcel of that was to become a core-funded institutions.
It's been 1 of our 5 path to progress to the future as we've identified the things we need to do.
I consider that a permanent repositioning that we are now a core-funded company.
As we think about what that means for shaping our geography we clearly have found our way to become core-funded through the strength of our Community Bank franchise and our enhancements to our deposit network as well as our business strategy around customer service and serving the clients in our market.
We continue to invest in certain growth markets primarily Portland Seattle and Colorado.
But given the economics of our industry we're also continuing to look at productivity where clients are using us in channels and making sure we're as efficient as we can be and our strategies in many ways around our branches are maturing so we will continue to selectively invest in order to support our relationship strategy but we are pleased with where our franchise is.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I would just ask as a follow on and I apologize if you address this already I kind of in and out of the call.
Did you address debit fees and what your philosophy is given all the controversy in the industry? Yes on that question I'll ask Bill Koehler the President of our Community Bank because we have done some things to reposition our product and differentiate ourself.
Nancy our focus with respect to debit in the regulatory environment is to acquire and retain engage clients.
And when we say engage we mean people who are choosing to use us as their primary bank.
In that regard you may have seen Key relationship rewards and the offering we announced about 2 weeks ago and what that is focused on is clients who want to build a relationship with us and rewarding them for that loyalty.
Key relationship rewards promotes choice.
It promotes control.
And we think it's fair and the response we've gotten from our clients who have asked us about it and others out there in the market has been very very good.
LLC Research Division</strong> So this will be just basically a relationship strategy that you may be doing more with debit fees sort of after this kind of shakes out or you just haven't said anything yet? We have chosen not to move forward with debit fees.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask what might be a little sensitive but I wanted to understand a little bit more about the say-on-pay vote and I guess you're one of the few companies or at least banks that got a no vote.
And I didn't really understand what that means and how you might change the incentive compensation.
Mike this is Beth Mooney and that was not in this year's vote.
That would be 2 years ago that we were a company that did receive a no on say on pay.
And this year that was not the case.
And our board who manages our compensation and our Executive compensation programs took that vote very seriously made a number of improvements that they announced and shared in the spring and we were successful with our say-on-pay vote this year.
Research Division</strong> So as you're the CEO and you work with the board what's the main incentive-based compensation that you're hoping to use to motivate the management team? Our board sets our incentive plans and does so in conjunction with outside consultants as well as counsel and those are disclosed the terms of our incentive compensation programs are described fully in our proxy done by the board in their role and oversight of the organization.
Research Division</strong> And is Henry Meyer still a consultant? And if so what's his pay arrangement? Henry Meyer is not an employee nor an Executive Officer of the corporation.
We did upon his retirement ask him to remain for a period of a year.
His primary role as a new CEO you can only imagine the challenges of our industry as well as the time as well as establishing our story with our investors is in a community role where he has helped transition community and client relationships.
And has specifically aided me in that regard.
Research Division</strong> And what is his compensation for that one year? Again it's disclosed in our proxy and I will apologize I don't remember on the top of my head but it is disclosed and it was subject to an 8-K filing at the time.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR Investment Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Kevin Barker filling in for Paul Miller.
A quick question on the $5.7 billion worth of CDs that are maturing next year at 2.44% how -- can you lay out when the maturities of those at the beginning in the first quarter all the way down through the fourth quarter? And where you see those repricing or whether you're actually go at -- continue to hold on to those deposits? Well Kevin this is Jeff Weeden.
What we experienced in the third quarter with the rollover of the CD book we actually saw about 65% to 70% remaining in the CD book and then an additional 10% or so that went in to other transaction deposit accounts.
So we've got a fairly good retention rate at this particular point in time.
Fourth quarter maturities that were identified there but $2.5 billion and of course there's a lot of 7-day to 1-month to 6-month types of CDs that just continue to roll over.
I think as you look out into 2012 we have about $1.7 billion that would mature in the first quarter $1.6 billion in the second quarter $1.5 billion in the third quarter and then it drops off to about $800 million.
But I think the real point here is that in the third quarter of next year which goes back to those CDs that were put on in the financial crisis when things kind of dried up at that point in time.
We have $1 billion worth of CDs in the third quarter of next year that have an average yield or cost of money of about 5% 5.06%.
In total between what we have that matures between the October 1 and December 31 next year of prior to 2009 CDs.
So 2008 and prior is about $2.8 billion of that total and those have an average yield of 4.87%.
So if we think about that particular book of business as that rolls off and we have repricing opportunities it gives us a little bit more confidence as we look at our forward margin.
Now of course it is asset/liability management so you also have to look at the asset side of the equation too for repricing that exist there.
But it does give us more confidence.
I just wanted to leverage that we have here a Key to continue to show some positive momentum in our margin going forward.
Research Division</strong> So would you argue with the rates where they are right now I should say they'll stay static or stable from this point on.
Do you actually see a tailwind to net interest income over the next several quarters? Well it is a dynamic process so I think you have to look at both on the asset side as well as the liability side.
And I think in terms of if we have continued loan growth and we have some degree of expansion I think that gives us some confidence there.
But we haven't provided yet our 2012 guidance with respect to where we see various things playing out.
But certainly it is a more of what I call a positive tone which is why I said I believe that what we have in -- for the fourth quarter reversing some of the trends that we've had over the last several quarters.
We see it as a more positive forward view at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally would you allow the percentage of your interest earning assets to increase as far as like securities as a percentage of these assets if the loan growth was not there or was not sustainable? Well I think we have to look at the liability side of the equation and the duration of the deposits that we would be taking in.
So certainly in some cases you can do various things besides putting on investment securities.
You could always look at extending the duration through the swap book at that particular point in time but swap rates aren't what I call overly attractive.
But it does give you an opportunity to extend some of the duration while maintaining the liquidity that may be necessary in the event that loans do pick up even further and faster.
So it's possible the investment book could show some new growth but that is not the -- that's not the current vision that we would have.
It would be used upon the loan growth.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was on some other call so I apologize if you answered this question.
But Jeff when you guys look at your capital levels under the Basel III can you share with us obviously your SIFI -- so there's going to be a SIFI buffer that you're going to have to carry.
But are you going to need to carry capital above -- I'll change my comment on this above that level or if your SIFI buffer let's say is 100 basis points so you're required to carry 8%.
Do you think you'd be comfortable staying around 8% 8.25% in the quarter or would be something even higher than that? Gerard we would in all likelihood once we find out what the SIFI buffer would be.
We would look at our overall risk profile.
But in all likelihood we would carry something in excess of that and have that as an internal trigger.
So we don't want to carry things just that they're regulatory minimums.
We're going to operate in a safe and sound fashion going forward and maintain flexibility.
Certainly we have considerable amount of capital right now that provides us a great deal of flexibility I think as we look at Basel III implementation into the future.
We'll go next to Eric Anderson with Hartford Financial.
Inc.</strong> Could you just briefly review for us sort of your current thoughts about the dividend and where that fits into your capital planning equation? Yes Eric this is Beth.
We are -- as we indicated we are in the process of doing our 2012 Budgeting and Planning cycle which would also include looking at a potential dividend increase.
I think the best way I could frame how you could think about that is we do have a board-approved dividend policy that indicates that the range with which we would look at a dividend payout would be somewhere between 20% to 30% of income.
And while we have not finalized obviously those 2012 plans that is sort of approved policy.
Inc.</strong> And do you have regulatory approval to do that or would that be the second step? The regulatory approval as we have discussed earlier we would submit our capital plan which would include a dividend recommendation from the company and the board as well as other capital actions and that would all be subject to regulatory approval.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Jeff Davis with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question I think for Chris.
Any read-through on the auto industry? I know you guys are not huge into the supplier manufacturer base and the like but any read-through in terms of strength of that sector as it forward looking and what it might mean for the industrial part of the Midwest more generally? The only insight I could give you on that is as you look at the annualized build and you look at the last couple of months there has been an increase in the last couple of months as you annualize it.
And we're seeing -- and as you know Jeff we don't have a whole lot of exposure to the automobile industry but we do have some clients obviously that have secondary and tertiary exposure.
And almost without exception those companies are doing pretty well.
So I would say it's coming off a low base but it continues to increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
As best as you can tell though not necessarily transitory? No I think my personal opinion is as you look at the annualized builds I don't think it looks transitory.
I think it looks like a very slow return.
But keep in mind this is an industry that at one point was what? 17.5 million units a year so there's a long way to go.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then as it relates to the industrial footprint Chris any indication for manufacturers that are big into export? Has there been any data points that would say their Export business is slowing? We don't Jeff see their Export business slowing in our discussions and looking at their backlogs.
But clearly as a result of the stronger dollar the profitability from that activity is in fact slowing.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Mooney I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you operator and again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
We believe we are well positioned and we will focus on and manage that which we can control as well as the execution of our relationship strategy.
And if you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team.
Vernon Patterson or Kelly La Mer at (216)689-4221 and that concludes our remarks today.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp's 2011 Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Ms.
Mooney please go head ma'am.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Now if you would turn to Slide 3.
This morning we announced fourth quarter net income of continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $201 million or $0.21 per common share.
Our fourth quarter results reflect continued improvement in credit quality solid loan growth and further evidenced that we're gaining traction in leveraging the alignment of our franchise across business lines to support the needs of our clients.
There were also some unusual items in the quarter that impacted our revenue and expense levels that Jeff will cover in his remarks.
Key's dramatic improvement and credit quality this year continued in the fourth quarter with net charge-offs declining for the eighth consecutive quarter to 86 basis points of average loans.
Nonperforming assets and the level of criticized loans also continued to show meaningful improvement.
Our progress reflects the actions taken to improve our risk profile and strengthen our credit culture which can be seen in our credit metrics as well as in the quality of our new loan originations.
We were also encouraged by the second consecutive quarter of period-end loan growth with average balances increasing for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008.
Driving the loan growth was a 5.4% increase in average commercial financial and agricultural loans marking the third consecutive quarter of growth for this portfolio.
This confirmed our belief that we've reached an inflection point in loan balances in the third quarter of 2011 and that we have created a business model that is distinctive and positions us to win in the marketplace.
Before Jeff discusses our quarterly results I want to step back and review the progress we made in 2011 and share some thoughts on our priorities for 2012.
In 2011 we benefited from the actions taken to strengthen our balance sheet reduce risk reposition our business and rebuild capital.
As you can see in our full year results we have returned to solid and sustainable profitability reached an inflection point in our loan portfolio and established peer-leading capital levels.
For the full year 2011 net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders was $857 million or $0.92 per common share which was a significant increase from the $413 million or $0.47 per common share in the prior year.
The year-over-year increase was largely driven by the dramatic improvement in credit quality good expense control and our success in growing our business.
In 2011 we also continued to focus on customer service.
I was pleased with the recognition we received over the course of the year that affirms our relationship strategy and validates our customers' belief they receive value from Key's products and services.
Recent recognition includes a survey by American Customer Satisfaction Index showing that Key is one of only 2 large banks that improved its overall customer satisfaction score for 2 consecutive years.
And Key scored significantly more positive than the banking industry overall.
Additionally Key ranked fifth nationwide in overall customer satisfaction in the J.D.
Power and Associates 2011 Small Business Banking Satisfaction Survey and achieved the highest score in the industry for in-person account activities.
The final item on this slide focuses on maintaining a strong balance sheet and remaining disciplined in our approach to capital management.
Our strong capital position provides us with the flexibility to support our clients and our business needs and evaluate other appropriate capital deployment opportunities.
One exciting opportunity was our recent announcement that we have signed an agreement to acquire 37 retail branches in Buffalo and Rochester New York.
The acquisition will strengthen our upstate New York franchise and benefit our local communities clients and shareholders.
And finally earlier this month we completed our 2012 CCAR submission and look forward to working with our regulators and board to evaluate appropriate opportunities to deploy capital which could include an increase to our common stock dividend and potential share repurchases.
Until the process is completed and we receive a response back from the Federal Reserve we will not be able to comment further.
Turning now to Slide 4.
This shows the progress that we've made towards our long-term goals.
2011 was clearly an inflection point for our company and I want to recognize the dedication and hard work of our employees that contributed to our success.
And as we look to 2012 we remain confident that despite industry headwinds we've positioned Key to win in the marketplace and continue to make progress on its financial goals.
With the foundation of a strong balance sheet and our relationship strategy in place our outlook for 2012 is built on solid loan growth driven by CNS lending and I would point out that our growth will continue to be a result of: higher quality relationship-based loan originations and not purchase loans; our net interest margin that is stable to improving; capitalizing on opportunities to leverage our relationship model with our market sensitive businesses to grow fee income; remaining focused on expense management; continued improvement in credit quality; and while the pace of the improvement will slow we expect continued progress towards our goals.
And finally one of the most important decisions that we'll make over the next several years relates to the way we manage our capital making sure we remain disciplined and opportunistic in making decisions that enhance shareholder value.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff who will review our fourth quarter results and provide more detail on our expectations for 2012.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's fourth quarter 2011 results from continuing operations.
As Beth commented on earlier for the fourth quarter the company earned a net profit of $0.21 per common share compared to $0.24 for the third quarter of 2011 and $0.33 for the fourth quarter of 2010.
The fourth quarter contained a number of moving parts including a charge of $24 million related to our obligation under our total return swap on the Visa Class B shares we sold in 2009 and a $10 million loss on the redemption of certain capital securities.
I'll touch more on these items along with expenses and credit quality in a few minutes.
Turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans increased $656 million during the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2011.
This represented a 1.4% unannualized increase from the third quarter and is the first time we have grown through the runoff portfolio since the fourth quarter of 2008.
As can be seen on this slide average balances of commercial financial and agricultural loans increased from $17.4 billion to $18.3 billion or approximately 5.4% unannualized and our utilization rate of CF&amp;A loans improved from 44.4% in the third quarter to 46.3% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the Q&amp;A segment Chris Gorman Bill Koehler and Chuck Hyle will be able to provide additional color on the quality of the credits and the spreads we were achieving.
However in a brief comment we were pleased with the overall quality and the fact that spreads held or expanded during the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
Moving to Slide 8.
On the deposit side of the balance sheet our trend of improving mix of deposits continued during fourth quarter where we experienced a $1.6 billion or 3.5% unannualized increase in nontime deposits.
As noted on this slide average balances of time deposits declined approximately $900 million during the fourth quarter.
And at quarter end we had approximately $10.4 billion in time deposits outstanding.
We have identified under the highlights section of this slide the scheduled maturities of our CD book and the rates that apply to these balances.
Approximately $6.8 billion of our CDs outstanding at December 31 2011 mature over the next 4 quarters and included in these totals are approximately $2.5 billion of higher-costing CDs originated prior to 2009.
To provide some additional detail on these higher-costing CDs: $238 million at a 4.95% cost mature in the first quarter; $688 million at a 4.57% cost mature in the second quarter; $1 025 000 000 at a 5.06% cost mature in the third quarter; and $529 million at a 4.88% cost mature in the fourth quarter.
These repricing opportunities will benefit our net interest margin.
Turning to Slide 9.
We continued to experience an improvement in our asset quality statistics again this quarter.
Net charge-offs declined to $105 million or 86 basis points of average loan balances for the fourth quarter.
In addition our nonperforming loans declined to 1.47% of period-end loans at December 31 2011.
Our reserve for loan losses stood at $1 billion or 2.03% of period-end loans and represented 138% coverage of nonperforming loans at December 31 2011.
As we have identified on Page 21 in the Appendix of today's materials criticized loans outstanding declined for the 10th consecutive quarter at December 31 2011.
Looking to 2012 we anticipate continued improvement in asset quality with lower levels of nonperforming assets and net charge-offs for the year.
Specifically with respect to net charge-offs we anticipate the amount to be comparable to the second half of 2011 for the next couple of quarters.
Regarding provision and reserves we anticipate the amount provided to be less the net charge-offs in 2012.
However we would anticipate as loan growth continues we would migrate during the course of the year for provisions to be closer to the level of net charge-offs.
There are a number of variables to consider of course including the composition of the loan portfolio at each quarter end throughout the year.
Turning to Slide 10.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 the company's taxable-equivalent net interest income was $563 million and the net interest margin was 3.13% up from $555 million and 3.09% for the third quarter of 2011.
Average earning assets were relatively stable for the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
An improvement in asset and funding mix aided both the net spread and net interest margin for the quarter.
Our expectation for 2012 is for the net interest margin to show modest improvement and for average earning assets to remain in a range of $71 billion to $73 billion.
Helping to offset some of the headwind on the margin from the continuation of the low-rate environment is our ability to reprice maturing CDs throughout the year as well as scheduled debt maturities.
As a result of the announcement on January 12 that we will be acquiring 37 branches in Western New York this year with approximately $3.4 billion in deposits and $400 million in loans we will use this excess liquidity to simply retire debt and fund loan growth.
During the first 6 months of this year we have approximately $2 billion of debt maturities with approximately $1.4 billion occurring in the second quarter.
The all-in cost of the second quarter maturities is approximately 1 month LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
Our noninterest income was down for the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter primarily for the following factors.
First we recorded a charge to our dealer trading and derivatives income line of $24 million related to our estimated cost associated with the total return swap we entered into in 2009 when we sold our Class B shares of Visa to a third party.
On December 23 of last year Visa announced that they would be funding more of their escrow account for litigation and canceling Class B shares.
This action created a charge for us under the total return swap.
Next in the fourth quarter we incurred a charge of $10 million compared to a gain of $13 million realized in the third quarter when we redeemed certain capital securities.
Retirement of the capital securities will benefit our future net interest margin.
Also during the fourth quarter principal investing incurred a loss of $8 million compared to a gain of $34 million during the third quarter.
And finally we had the impact of the new government pricing controls on debit card interchange which reduced our debit card income by $15 million compared to the third quarter 2011.
Turning to Slide 11.
Expenses increased during the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the third quarter by $25 million to $717 million.
During the fourth quarter we incurred additional expense for professional fees marketing personnel other real estate owned and various other miscellaneous items which were partially offset by a credit to the reserve for unfunded commitments.
Some of these additional costs incurred are typically higher in the fourth quarter and should subside as we get into 2012.
In 2012 we will continue to focus on cost control efforts as we invest in client-facing positions and technology continue to optimize our nonclient-facing positions and occupancy costs expand for marketing where we can deepen client relationships to improve future revenue and implement other efficiency initiatives.
Slide 12 shows our pretax pre-provision net revenue and return on average assets.
Pre-provision net revenue at $260 million for the fourth quarter was negatively impacted by the $24 million charge for Visa the $10 million charge for the redemption of certain capital securities and the $8 million loss from principal investing.
By contrast the third quarter benefited from a $13 million gain on the redemption of capital securities and $34 million in gains from principal investing.
As we look at pre-provision net revenue for 2012 we anticipate PPNR to be in a range around $280 million to $330 million per quarter.
And finally turning to Slide 13.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common ratio both remained strong at December 31 2011 at 9.88% and 11.28% respectively placing us in the top quartile of our peer group on these ratios.
As Beth commented on with respect to the capital management our priorities include reviewing the dividend for possible increase and seeking authority around potential share repurchases.
However until the Fed completes their review under the CCAR process we are not able to comment further at this time.
That concludes our remarks.
And I will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Beth I was just wondering if you could just give us a little bit more color just in terms of the HSBC acquisition.
The question is you guys certainly don't need any more capital.
You're flushed with liquidity and as Jeff mentioned you're paying off some debt.
But I just want to explore a little bit further just in terms of how you're thinking about that excess capital the excess liquidity.
And again given the franchise your execution strategies and so forth is this another way in terms of how you're looking to redeploy again that kind of the excess capital? I'm just trying to better understand the acquisition relative to kind of your excess liquidity excess capital position and kind of how you guys are thinking about kind of your capital management over the next couple of years.
Yes Todd that's -- I'd be delighted to take that question.
And I think the primary driver of the acquisition of 37 branches in Western New York is to strengthen our franchise in the markets of Buffalo and Rochester.
We have talked about how share density and increasing our presence at markets over time helps us acquire clients increase our revenue and enhance our business operations.
So we viewed this first and foremost as an opportunity to strengthen our franchise in 2 important markets to Key.
Relative to liquidity and capital the liquidity front as Jeff mentioned those deposits of $2.4 billion that we'll close in the second quarter are paired around upcoming debt maturities.
So our first use for that will be to simply pay off those maturing debts.
And as it relates to capital we have said we will opportunistically look at acquisitions that enhance our franchise that could potentially use some capital.
And given the size of this particular transaction the amount of capital that it uses is really minimal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so to the bigger question then again most of the companies have been receiving the question this quarter just in terms of as you think about capital you certainly -- you mentioned kind of the dividend preference certainly.
But again has the kind of priorities shifted at all just in terms of as you think about capital return and the deployment of capital between dividends buybacks selective acquisitions or opportunistic acquisitions? Todd we have -- our priorities around capital have not changed.
And I will just reiterate them to kind of set clarity around that because it wasn't included in our remarks.
Our primary use of our capital is investing in our businesses and supporting our clients and our loan growth.
Second would be our common stocks dividend.
Third we would look to the return of capital in the form of share repurchase to our shareholders.
And then fourth our capital position allows us to be disciplined and opportunistic about ways that we could invest in our franchise to include selectively acquisitions over time.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dive in a little bit more on the components of your PPNR guidance for $280 to $330.
Jeff correct me if I'm wrong but if I add back some of the extraneous items in the fourth quarter it seems like the PPNR level is $294? Appreciative of the NIM expansion and continued loan growth could get you to the higher end of your range.
Could you give us a sense of what a core run rate of expense that is sort of embedded in that PPNR guidance? And also what you're expecting for fee income trends specifically for Durbin mitigation? With respect to the expenses it would be very similar to our guidance that we gave last year in the first quarter.
That last year we gave in the guidance of around $700 million to $725 million.
I would say that would probably be in the -- right around the $700 million level is where we're looking at for expenses.
I think on Durbin the mitigation plans really won't to be in full swing as far as fully implemented until we get into later this year and into 2013.
So that's one "area." But we also are seeing very good activity I think with regard to our loan syndication activities.
You've seen where we've had good loan origination-related activity here in the third and the fourth quarter and syndication of our loan-related fees have been -- held up quite strongly.
I think with respect to the other item as you're talking about too the net interest margin we are guiding for a stronger margin in 2012.
And certainly with I think the leverage that we have on the CD and on the debt side that will be something that will be achievable for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question I had was some just clarity on your guidance with regard to the reserve.
I guess is it -- what guidepost can we -- should we look at? I understand that you mentioned that it's really dependent on the portfolio mix at the end of the quarter.
But as far as thinking about the timing of provision matching charge-offs are we looking at your coverage to NPLs? Are we looking at allowance versus loans? What sort of a guidepost for us to look at in terms of not looking at credit leverage as a support for EPS in 2012? Well there are multiple of factors that we go through.
I think in terms of whether you're looking at nonperformers coverage of nonperformers it's certainly one that we look at.
We also look at what our forward loss expectations are too.
So when you look at the portfolio we build it up each and every quarter.
It's based on probability of default of credits and then loss given default of individual credits.
So those are all factored into it.
Individual benchmarks to look at you can use certain things on the consumer side its usually about 12 months forward look plus 1 standard deviation is kind of our view on the consumer side.
But commercial credit is much more unique in looking at the individual underlying credits and the quality of the credits.
Chuck anything you want to add to that? Yes.
It's a little hard to predict these things.
It really does all boil down to commercial portfolio composition.
And as Jeff and Beth indicated in their comments I think our criticized classified numbers continue to come down in a pretty good pace.
I think they were down 14% in the fourth quarter.
And I think another important factor is that the new origination for the quarter continues to improve the overall quality of our commercial portfolio.
In other words the credits that were underwriting and taking on the book are of even better quality.
So all those things help move things in the direction that we've seen over the last number of quarters.
The kind of ailing [ph] force of course is an increase in volume.
And that's what we're beginning to predict and we'll see how that plays out over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Could you let us know what you're providing terms of the new CF&amp;A or C&amp;I growth? How much you're providing for new C&amp;I growth? You mean in terms of the reserve? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I don't -- we don't disclose -- we don't really look at it that way.
We look at it in the -- we look at the total portfolio.
We look at what's in the portfolio.
We look at correlations within the portfolio.
And we do an individual bottoms-up approach.
What we do track is the probability to default of the new business that we do.
And directionally that is as I said earlier improving the overall tone of the portfolio.
Next up with Nomura we have Brian Foran.
Research Division</strong> I guess to start just to clarify the NIM the modest improvement is that from where we are today? Or is that from a full year level? Brian that's from where we are today.
So we expect to see improvement as we go throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And then on capital I know you already addressed it.
But one question I get over and over again so figured I'd ask you is with the capital ratios so high and with the stock value below tangible book I definitely understand the strategic rationale for improving density in your markets.
I definitely understand the attraction of certain shareholders to a recurring dividend.
But does the thought process around buybacks change based on the stock price? I guess a lot of people kind of look at that ability to buyback stock below tangible book is almost like a free money trade.
Brian this is Jeff again.
I think what we all have to be conscious of is the fact that it's not really something that the board and management has directly within their control anymore.
So what all of us have to do is go through this process of submitting our plans to the regulators and then it's reviewed.
So our priorities I think were laid out as to how we want to employ our capital.
And we don't disagree with you that having the opportunity to do some share repurchases at these particular levels would certainly be accretive and attractive to us.
But everything has to be balanced in the approach and how we are viewing our overall capital plan going forward.
And Brian I would just add this is Beth that in our comments about our 2012 CCAR submission we said that we contemplated both potential increase on our common stock dividend as well as the potential for share repurchase.
And we like the other banks that participate in the CCAR process will get further guidance from the Federal Reserve in the middle of March.
Research Division</strong> Just one other clarification on the interest earning asset guidance.
That includes the HSBC branches? Or that excludes them? That would include those particular branches because we have debt maturities that are coming up.
So it's a little bit of a liability-driven approach here.
We have plenty of liquidity.
So we'll improve our mix of our assets as we have loan growth.
We'll have cash flows coming off of our investment portfolio that will be reinvested into loans.
And then as we get into the second part of 2012 we have the opportunity with the deposits coming back on and continued loan growth to show overall growth in the average earning assets.
We have now Ken Usdin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To follow up on that last point I was just wondering if you can walk us through again that trajectory of earning assets.
We understood the 71 to 73 type of number you're thinking about for full year.
So I'm assuming that that includes the acquired branches.
At what point do you see that balancing act starting to level out in terms of earning assets bottoming? And within that how close are we also seeing the exit and the continued ops portfolios getting to a bottom as well? Yes okay.
So with respect to the average earning assets we basically have been holding right around the $72 billion mark here the last 2 quarters.
And so we are getting towards that bottoming part of that process.
I think as we look at the first quarter and the second quarter we have those debt maturities.
I think that would be where we would have the kind of that low part of that particular range.
And then as we get into the third and the fourth quarter we'll be building at that particular point in time.
So that's how I would try to look at it from an asset -- average asset perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And within it on the -- are you changing -- because you're going to be focusing on letting some of those long-term maturities roll off any -- can you talk to us about any different change in your deposit strategy here? Because obviously the core deposits you've been letting the higher-cost CDs run off.
We haven't seen a lot of core deposit growth in the last few quarters.
So could you talk about any changes you're making there and also how much leeway you have to continue to pull down pricing aside from the obvious CD rollover? Yes.
Well I'll ask Bill to comment in just a second on the overall deposit strategy.
But I think in terms as you look at CDs rolling off that's certainly beneficial to us.
We have sufficient liquidity.
And I think the market right now overall has been very very strong.
I would point out the fact that what we have seen is over a $4 billion increase in deposits in the -- in terms of the noninterest-bearing deposits year-over-year.
So we have seen very strong flows on our noninterest-bearing deposits.
And of course clients are using those deposits at this point in time to offset certain deposit service charges on the annualized accounts that we have out there.
But overall it hasn't made sense for us or others in the industry to bid up for deposits at a time when loan demand has been relatively soft throughout the 2011 that we did see some improvement here as we got into the latter half and we expect that to continue into '12.
One point I would make on those exit portfolios cause you asked that question too those are running down much more slowly at this particular point in time.
And so becoming much more problematic as you look at the amortization of those.
And they'll probably in that $200 million to maybe $250 million going forward.
And we were able to grow through those not only on an endpoint basis ending balance basis but also on an average balance basis during the fourth quarter.
Bill do you want to comment? Sure.
The one thing I would say on deposits as we look at our rate shops of course every market is different.
But we think we're sort of at the midpoint maybe on the lower end of the midpoint within our markets on the any given day.
And our deposits still continue to grow.
We think that's an indication of our relationship strategy and the intermediation that's happening in the market and applied to quality.
So we feel good about that aspect of the growth in our deposits.
We'll now go to Mike Turner with Compass Point.
On the principal investing losses in the quarter I know that's a very volatile line item.
You've kind of averaged around $20 million a quarter up through the third quarter.
Can you maybe talk about what those losses were comprised of? And how you think about that business going forward? Well certainly under Dodd-Frank we think about that business going away going forward because a number of the individuals that used to be a part of the company were basically spun off here left the company in the second quarter of this year and are still managing those particular funds.
But theyve got their own operation at this point in time.
Most of the overall balances that we have in principal investing which is approximately $700 million $500 million of which are funds and $200 million of which are direct investments.
And they both continue to pay down.
So we saw realization of sales in the fourth quarter of this year.
Now some of the -- as we look at this it is choppy and volatile.
And I would expect that we would see that to continue going forward.
It's very difficult for me to predict exactly where it's going to come out on any given quarter because of the underlying investments and how they may or may not perform.
Next up with Morgan Stanley we have Ken Zerbe.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the reserve a little bit.
Obviously we've heard your comments about provisioning matching charge-offs a little later in the year.
Have you -- or can you share any kind of discussions with the regulators or the SEC or anyone who cares about your reserve ratio in terms of what level is appropriate? Because you're still at 2% reserves seems very high.
But we've been releasing -- you've been releasing a big commentary that would suggest that the pace of reserve release excluding loan growth of course is going to slow if not kind of stop? So we're trying to know how much of your reserve ratio depends on your model factors versus sort of external regulator factors? Well the one comment -- this is Jeff and then Chuck will comment also on this.
But I think you have to look at the fact that we reserves set up for specific individual loans to the extent those loans get resolved.
Those reserves are no longer necessary.
And so that's what we're seeing some of that particular action as nonperforming loans continue to go down.
There were specific reserves assigned to them and those particular reserves get released.
I think the overall pause is migration of the book and it's difficult to tell you how long that will continue before it just becomes a stabilization and then you start getting into more of a factor involving just normal loan growth.
Even if it's at the same existing credit quality we'll require additional reserves to be taken at that particular point in time for that particular production.
But I think what I wanted to convey in the initial comments were that we still expect to see the reserve come down during the course of 2012.
However with the pace of which it came down in 2011 which resulted in an overall credit to the provision expense for the year we do not expect that in 2012 at this particular point in time.
And in fact as we migrate towards the year we expect to see provision expense increase.
But it still may not be.
I can't tell you specifically if it will equal net charge-offs at that particular point in time.
Ken this is Chuck Hyle.
I'll just add 1 or 2 comments to Jeff's.
And one is that as we said before this process is a bottoms-up commercial loan by commercial loan analysis that we do every quarter.
It's quite rigorous and it's quite detailed.
And that's basically every quarter we do this.
And that's what drives -- ultimately drives the allowance.
And while we look at multiple of factors that is the core of the analysis that we do.
I would say the commercial book -- we've seen terrific progress on the commercial book over the last 2 years.
And as we've said over the last quarter or so I think that progress the reduction in bad loans and so forth is kind of reaching a more normalized state.
But on the consumer side while we've seen some progress it hasn't been dramatic progress.
And I think that we will not see incremental progress on a consumer side of the book until we see better underlying economic news particularly the unemployment rate.
And while our consumer book never deteriorated very dramatically during the cycle the improvement I think the pace of that improvement has been slow.
So I think there are slightly different stories in those 2 books.
We'll see how they play out during the quarter.
And again as we've said earlier the volume that we create over the next couple of quarters will have an impact on the reserves as well.
But it's a very rigorous very kind of mathematical process that we go through as we establish our reserves.
Next up we have Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about the guidance a little bit if I could.
Your pretax pre-provision range the high end of that range is essentially what you did in all of 2011 that $1.3 billion.
And then you mentioned that your provision expense that you've been talking about pretty much has nowhere to go but up.
If we can extrapolate that out from an operating perspective in other words your pretax pre-provision income then taking out the provision expense it seems to me that your operating income or your pretax income had a fair amount of degradation to happen and to occur in 2012.
What is the offset to that? Were your tax rate stay fairly low? Is it share buybacks? Or do you expect EPS to actually flatten out and turned down because of provision impact in 2012? Well this is Jeff Weeden again.
I think if you look at the consensus out there in the street you would see that the estimates for 2012 would actually be below the 2011 earnings of the company.
And I think you summarized it in the sense that with the negative provision in 2011 having a positive provision in 2012 wouldn't automatically create some degree of headwinds there.
I think what we overcome over time is really with the continued loan growth and margin expansion and also being able to offset some of the other headwinds that we have with respect to the debit card fee income of related items.
So it is from the perspective as you described it.
I mean I think we've given pretty specific guidance on the range of pre-provision profitability.
We've given pretty specific guidance even with respect to charge-offs for the next couple of quarters and provision expense remaining below that but I can't tell you exactly how much below it will be until we actually go through the end of each and every quarter.
Tax rates will remain relatively comparable.
So I think in tax terms the tax rates can change depending upon the income in any given quarter.
But factor in a normal tax rate and then we apply tax credits against that that we originate on an ongoing basis and that has a reduction -- natural reduction to the overall effective tax rate.
Next up we'll go to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question in terms of the balance sheet.
And you noted that the securities portfolio available for sale is down about 8% but the securities that you're holding to maturity are actually up by a similar amount of the AFS securities going down.
Could you just give us a little more color as to what you're longer-term thinking is for those 2 line items? And I noticed that the securities that you're holding to maturity have somewhat lower yields on those.
And if you could just add some color on that as well that would be helpful.
Yes.
I'll take the lower yield right away because those where our new originations are going into.
So the new coupons are just of lower than the overall portfolio just given the nature of the market today.
With respect to the overall size of the portfolio it will in all likelihood come down as we have loans that we're funding as part of the change in the overall asset mix.
We've had a higher level of investment securities during the last couple of years as we have basically had this part of liquidity.
And so as liabilities have been repricing that's been coming out of that particular area.
Now that we've reached kind of the floor on some of the liability side of the equation on the deposits we still have some debts maturing.
But as we look at it we're using the cash flows coming off of the investment portfolio.
We'll fund new loan growth for the overall company and that will just be an improvement in the asset mix itself and benefit the margin.
Next with Deutsche Bank we'll go to Matt O'Connor.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered at this point here.
But just as we think about the rating agencies and what they're looking to see from you guys to get an upgrade any thoughts on that? I think you still have some deposits in the commercial mortgage servicing business that could come back if you're catching upgrade.
And obviously that can help on the funding mix even more so.
Yes.
Matt I would just say overall obviously as S&amp;P did their review of the regional banks last year they saw to move Key to a positive outlook that we're pleased to see.
And obviously Moody's has looked at the bank arena.
And Jeff can comment more specifically on some of the components but I think there is an overall perception within Moody's related to the earnings power of our industry in this particular economic regulatory and interest rate environment.
So we continue to look to the strength of our balance sheet the strength of our capital ratios and the things that we have done to basically position our company.
And I think the rating agencies will continue to monitor that for Key as well as the industry over time.
And I would let Jeff comment more fully on Moody's.
Yes.
I think in terms of capital reserves asset quality we're all -- the company is in very good shape.
I think what it really is looking at is just to continue to show improvement here in the future on pre-provision profitability of the company.
So we feel good about the direction that we're headed as a company.
But I cannot predict when any particular rating action may take place.
So if it does it is positive for us.
But even at our current ratings we are in I think a relatively good shape.
We'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a multipart question for Jeff and Beth.
The first is how do you guys -- what is your cost of capital? What kind of number have you guys come up with for that number? And second if you look at the new Basel III Tier 1 common ratios that everybody will be managing to and if we assume your SIFI buffer will be 50 basis points because you're a national SIFI and the Fed seems to be saying that there's going to be a modest SIFI buffer for the national SIFIs.
Where are you guys comfortable carrying your Tier 1 common ratio? I assume it's going to be something above that.
And then finally Beth philosophically if you guys have capital that stays above 10% or so and again I know the regulators are very influential on this but this is more of a philosophical question.
Would you be comfortable in giving back to shareholders more than 100% of your earnings? Not necessarily this year of course but philosophically with that excess capital if there is really no real great growth opportunities would you guys give it back in the forms of dividends and stock buybacks in excess of any year as current earnings? Okay.
Gerard on the cost of capital I think you can go out and you can look at any number of different players that are out there and compute the cost of capital given the current rate environment and the betas out there whether it's around 10% or something along those particular lines.
With respect to Tier 1 common and Basel III I think in this regard we do have to wait to see specifically what comes out of the SIFI buffers if any and the requirements of those rules.
I guess we were hopeful that they would have been out by now to begin to see that and formulate it.
But we expect those out in the not-too-distant future.
With respect to how well-managed capital we'll take that all into account.
Does that mean that -- I think as you look at the capital composition has changed also.
So we have not only look at Tier 1 common but you have to look at Tier 1 in total capital what those requirements are.
And so with that in mind more -- does it end up being a Tier 1 common level that's closer to a 9% 9.5% 10%? We don't really know yet at this point in time.
Where we are right now at the end of the year on a Basel I basis was a Tier 1 common of around 11.28% 11.3%.
And we're in very good shape on that.
So Beth do you want to comment on the...
Yes Gerard.
I would say that clearly on the philosophical point of view our priorities are driven by the view of what creates the most value for our shareholders.
And we've talked about obviously having capital support our organic growth as well as the growth that's required for our clients dividends share repurchase and then excess capital available under the right circumstances and in a disciplined way for other opportunities that could include acquisition.
Embedded in that is our philosophy.
And clearly at any point in time you're right.
How we utilize capital is being governed by the CCAR process in conjunction with the Federal Reserve.
And at current share prices share repurchase would be important -- would be attractive to shareholders because that return of capital would be enhancing to their value.
So in conjunction with our board and our regulators we will look at that each and every year.
And in my comments I used the word some of the most important decisions we will make as a board and management team in conjunction with our regulators in the coming years is how do we use that capital in a disciplined way that creates franchise and shareholder value.
So clearly continuing to look at those 4 priorities in each and every year against those opportunities against what's the right thing to do to make sure we're taking care of our shareholders is top of mind of the board and management in conjunction with our regulators.
Next up we have pardon me Steve Scinicariello with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the additional opportunities that you might see similar to the HSBC branches.
And as it relates to kind of optimizing your franchise I mean that was such a great move.
And I'm just curious as to how many other types of opportunities you might see kind of across the franchise.
And even if you're not seeing them what other areas maybe across your geographics franchise would you like to do those kinds of deals? Steve this is Beth and I would say that additional opportunities are hard to predict because these tend to come along for reasons that aren't necessarily something that you can plan or anticipate has to do with the circumstances of an organization that would be in a position to look to sell something or sell a whole bank.
We have said in the past that we believe we can create value in a disciplined way by looking at the breath of our geographic markets and where appropriate if opportunities were to come along that would allow us to do a fill-in acquisition that would enhance our market presence would strengthen our ability to leverage our business model acquire clients and utilize the capabilities of our corporate and community banks that again was the word discipline being operative in that sentence that we would look at those.
And across our franchise there could be a variety of areas and opportunities in that regard.
So I appreciate your comment about a recent announcement as being attractive.
I think that is indicative of the kind of the things that we are trying to think about to strengthen and enhance our franchise.
And with that I know Bill Koehler our President of Corporate -- Community Bank might have some additional thoughts about how he looks at our various geographies.
I will make 2 comments.
The first is we have benefited from balance and diversification across all our geographies.
So we want to take advantage of that and recognize it as so.
The other point I would make relating to our branch network is we can't wait for those opportunities.
We have opportunities to rationalize and optimize our existing branch network and we're looking at those.
Whereas in 2011 we built 39 or 40 branches.
This year we will build more like half that many.
And we will shift the focus as well towards relocations and consolidations in order to reposition as best we can our branch footprint to more attractive trade areas so we can find other opportunities to gain efficiencies and productivity.
And next up with JP Morgan we have Steven Alexopoulos.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start looking at the $1.5 billion of C&amp;I loan growth.
Were you guys active in buying loans during the quarter potentially from Euro banks? Steve it's Chris Gorman speaking.
Just a couple of quick comments.
The answer is no.
We were active in originating deals and in fact distributing them.
But we -- all of it is really organic growth.
And we've gone about the business of really targeting who we want to do business with.
For example in our KeyBank Capital Markets group we grew our customer base by 10%.
But that 10% had twice as much in terms of fee income.
And as Chuck Hyle mentioned earlier the weighted average probability of default was significantly below that which resides in the portfolio.
So it was truly targeted organic growth that we experienced and we expect to continue to experience as we go forward.
And Steve this is Beth.
One of the things I underscored in our opening remarks when I've shared some of the priorities and thoughts around 2012 was critical to our success as well as our business plan is continued growth in that position and deepening of relationships in our commercial industrial and agricultural loan book and that that will be through the execution of our relationship strategy and not purchased loans.
And...
Next up we have Jeff Davis with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not a big thing and you may have commented on it or maybe you may have put it in the release and I've completely missed it but let me ask the question.
OCI [ph] was down about $171 million linked quarter.
I think tenure was flat Sep 30 to December 31.
What drove that change? Primarily 2 things.
One we have a smaller held to -- or available-for-sale portfolio.
And the second item is the change in the pension value pension asset values.
Next up with Raymond James we have David Long.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about the loan growth obviously your expectations are for continued loan growth here.
But relative to the fourth quarter obviously it was quite strong.
Is there any seasonality we need to think about here in the fourth quarter? And also were there any accelerated depreciation tax advantages some of your clients may have taken here at the end of the year that would have run that fourth quarter number a bit higher? David it's Chris.
A couple of things there.
We always on a seasonal basis particularly in our leasing business do in fact have an increase in the fourth quarter.
So there is some seasonality to it.
In addition to that there were some specific things in the fourth quarter for example where we were bridging transactions where we're doing the takeout.
In one case to Fannie and Freddie and another to a consortium of insurance companies we're going to do a private placement.
So A there is some seasonality to it.
B on top of the seasonality there was some transaction-specific activity in the fourth quarter that will not duplicate itself as we roll forward into 2012.
And David I would just add that pipelines across our businesses continue to be strong.
Levels of new business volume originations are increasing.
But in all things there is seasonality and there are timing cases.
So as we think about 2012 we feel good about continued loan growth.
But in any given quarter the level of growth such as we had in the fourth quarter is often influenced by other factors.
We'll take Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Kevin Barker filling in for Paul Miller.
I just have a quick question and a follow-up on the commercial loan growth.
Do you find that a lot of the loan growth coming from that side is being invited into more syndications with Euro banks exiting a lot of the market? So Kevin it's Chris again.
A couple of things.
There is no question that the exiting of the European banks has had an impact on the entire market.
So we are clearly seeing that.
And you're also seeing on the supply side if we go back for example in the real estate business 5 years ago the CMBS market was a $300 billion market.
Last year it was a $30 billion market.
This year I think it's going to be a $25 million or $35 billion market.
And there is a wall of refinancing.
So there are some issues on the supply side that are driving our ability and other people's ability to grow loans.
Having said that our growth was not in fact driven by buying into syndications and filling out where the European banks used to be.
As we said earlier it was really lead business.
We lead 70 -- we're focused on the middle market obviously but we lead 70% of the deals we're involved with.
That's all the time we have for questions.
I'll turn everything back over to Ms.
Mooney for any further or concluding comments.
Thank you Operator.
And again we'd like to thank everyone for taking time from their schedule to participate in our call today.
And if you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Lambert at the phone number of (216) 689-3133.
And for today that concludes our remarks.
Once again everyone this will conclude today's program.
We thank you for joining us.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Ms.
Mooney please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
And good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Chuck Hyle; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Now if you would turn to Slide 3.
This morning we announced first quarter net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $199 million or $0.21 per common share.
Our first quarter results demonstrate continued momentum as we execute on our relationship strategy strengthen our balance sheet and maintain disciplined expense control.
Credit quality also improved in the first quarter which is a continuation of the trend that we have seen over the past 2 years.
Net charge-offs declined to 82 basis points continuing its migration toward our long-term target of 40 to 50 basis points.
Nonperforming assets and criticized loans also showed improvement in the quarter.
We were encouraged to see continued growth in our commercial financial and agricultural loans as we continue to acquire and deepen relationships and meet customer needs for credit.
Average CF&amp;A loans were up 7.2% compared with the prior quarter making the fourth consecutive quarter of growth for this portfolio.
The growth in our CF&amp;A loan balances continues to be broad-based across our franchise as well as in targeted client segments in our Corporate Bank such as industrial and manufacturing energy and utilities and health care.
Also contributing to loan growth has been our progress on the commitment we made last year to lend $5 billion to small businesses.
Since this program was launched in September of 2011 Key has made over $2.4 billion in lending commitments to small business owners who remain critical to our economic recovery and job creation.
Importantly in both the Community and Corporate Banks we continue to add new clients and increase the level of engagement with our existing relationships.
Our success in executing on our relationship strategy was affirmed through several industry honors and recognitions in the first quarter.
They included a top 5 ranking for overall customer satisfaction in J.D.
Power's 2011 Small Business Satisfaction survey excellence award from Greenwich Associates for small business and middle-market banking awards for our online banking capability from Corporate Insights Bank Monitor and top scores for treasury management services from Phoenix-Hecht.
We have also continued to make investments that enhance our ability to serve our clients and grow our business.
These include modernizing our branch network enhancing our online and mobile capabilities and adding more client-facing positions.
And we remain on track for an early third quarter closing of our branch acquisition in Western New York.
This acquisition will strengthen our franchise and benefit our local communities clients and our shareholders.
The final item on this slide focuses on maintaining a strong balance sheet and remaining disciplined in our approach to capital management as previously announced we received no objection from the Federal Reserve to our 2012 capital plan and subsequently authorized a common stock repurchase program of up to $344 million.
The program is expected to begin in the second quarter of this year and will run through the first quarter of 2013.
Our capital plan also included an increase in our common stock dividend from $0.03 a share to $0.05 per share.
The board will consider the potential dividend increase when it meets next month.
These actions represent opportunities for Key to return capital to our shareholders while still maintaining our peer-leading capital position.
On Slide 4 you can see that we have made significant progress on our long-term goals and our return on average assets for the first quarter continues to be within our targeted range.
We believe that we can continue to build on our momentum by leveraging our strong balance sheet and executing our relationship model.
Our clients continue to tell us that Key's business model and strategy is distinctive and this is allowing us to win in the marketplace and grow.
We're also focused on managing expenses and improving our operating leverage which remain critical in the current operating environment.
And finally we will remain disciplined in the way we manage our capital consistent with the priorities that we have previously outlined: maintaining strong capital for organic growth; increasing our common stock dividend; using the authority we have from the board to return capital to our shareholders through share repurchases over the next 4 quarters; and to be disciplined around opportunities to invest in our business model and our franchise.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a review of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's first quarter 2012 results from continuing operations.
As we reported this morning the company earned a net profit from continuing operations of $0.21 per common share for the first quarter.
This compares to $0.21 for both the fourth quarter and the first quarters of 2011.
I'll cover the other information on this page in more detail on the following slide.
Turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans increased $766 million or 1.6% unannualized during the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
As can be seen on this slide average balances of commercial financial and agricultural loans increased from $18.3 billion to $19.5 billion or approximately 7.2% unannualized.
And our utilization rate of CF&amp;A loans improved from 46.3% in the fourth quarter to 46.9% in the first quarter of 2012.
Continuing to Slide 8.
On the deposit side of the balance sheet our trend of improving mix of deposits continued into the first quarter where we experienced an increase in average balances of nontime deposits of approximately $600 million or 1.3% unannualized.
During March of this year certain funds previously invested in our Victory Money Market Mutual Funds were either moved to a Key deposit account or to a new arrangement that we have with another fund provider.
This resulted in approximately $600 million of low-cost transaction deposits moving onto our balance sheet.
These funds did not have a material impact on our first quarter average deposit balances.
The additional liquidity from these deposits will help fund second quarter debt maturities and potential loan growth.
As noted on this slide average balances of time deposits declined approximately $700 million during the first quarter.
We have identified under the highlight section of this slide the scheduled maturities of our CD book and the rates that apply to the $9.9 billion of CDs maturing at March 31 2012.
As we have previously discussed we have significant maturities of higher-costing CDs in the second third and fourth quarters of this year.
Specifically approximately $690 million at an average cost of 4.59% mature in the second quarter followed by $1 030 000 000 in the third quarter at a cost of 5.06%.
And then tapering down to approximately $530 million at a 4.88% average cost during the fourth quarter.
This compares to approximately $240 million in maturities in the first quarter of this year.
These CD maturities along with debt maturities in the second quarter will help offset pressure from maturities of investment securities in this extended low-rate environment.
Turning to Slide 9.
Consistent with our comments last quarter regarding our outlook for credit quality we continue to experience an improvement in our asset quality statistics again this quarter.
Net charge-offs declined to $101 million or 82 basis points of average loan balances for the first quarter of 2012.
In addition our nonperforming loans declined to 1.35% of period-end loans at March 31 2012.
Our reserve for loan losses stood at $944 million or 1.92% of period-end loans and represented 141.7% coverage of nonperforming loans at March 31 2012.
As we have identified on Page 19 in the appendix of today's materials criticized loans outstanding continued to improve declining for the 11th consecutive quarter at March 31.
Looking to the balance of the 2012.
We anticipate continued modest improvement in asset quality and net charge-offs.
Regarding provision and reserves we anticipate the amount to be provided to be less than charge-offs for 2012.
And consistent with our comments last quarter we would anticipate as loan growth continues we would migrate during the course of the year for provision to be closer to the level of net charge-offs.
For the first quarter our provision expense represented approximately 34 basis points of average loan balances and net charge-offs were 82 basis points of average loan balances.
As Beth mentioned in her comments our long-term target for net charge-offs is 40 to 50 basis points.
Turning to Slide 10.
For the first quarter of 2012 the company's net interest margin was 3.16% compared to 3.13% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $559 million for the first quarter down from $563 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a result of the early termination of a leverage lease which resulted in the write-off of $6 million of capitalized loan origination costs.
Average earning assets were down approximately $1 billion to $71.4 billion for the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
However all of this decline can be attributable to lower short-term investment balances.
Our expectation for 2012 continues to be for the net interest margin to show modest improvement and for average earning assets to remain in the range of $71 billion to $73 billion.
With respect to the second quarter we do not expect much change in the net interest margin from the first quarter level as most of the benefit we expect from our debt and deposit repricing opportunities during the second quarter will benefit the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Another item which could impact the margin but not necessarily net interest income is simply higher levels of short-term liquidity from deposit flows.
As Beth commented on we remain on track for an early third quarter closing of our branch acquisition in Western New York.
This will add approximately $2.4 billion in deposits and $400 million in loans during the third quarter.
Our noninterest income was $472 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $414 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The $58 million increase was primarily the result of a $20 million gain we realized on the early termination of a leverage lease a $43 million improvement in net gains from principal investing and a $19 million improvement in investment banking and capital markets income.
These improvements were partially offset by decreases in corporate-owned life insurance lower levels of gains on loan sales and various other items.
Of note net of the $6 million charged against net interest income for the write-off of the capitalized loan origination costs the early termination of the leverage lease benefited our total revenue by $14 million during the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 11.
Noninterest expense for the first quarter of 2012 remained well controlled at $703 million down $14 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Personnel expense was down $2 million as lower incentive compensation accruals offset seasonal increases in employment taxes.
Nonpersonnel expense decreased $12 million primarily from lower cost for professional fees and marketing partially offset by not having a credit to the provision for losses on lending-related commitments in the first quarter as well as higher other expenses.
Slide 12 shows our pretax pre-provision net revenue and return on average assets.
Pre-provision net revenue for the first quarter was $328 million and benefited from stronger fee revenue as well as lower expense levels compared to the fourth quarter.
As we look at pre-provision net revenue for the balance of 2012 we anticipate PPNR to be in the range of around $290 million to $330 million per quarter.
And finally turning to Slide 13.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at March 31 2012 at 10.3% and 11.5% respectively placing us in the top quartile of our peer group on these ratios.
As Beth commented on with respect to capital management our priorities remain maintaining strong capital for organic growth increasing the dividend and using the authority we have from the board included in our capital plan to return capital to our shareholders through share repurchases over the next 4 quarters.
That concludes our formal remarks.
And I will return the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll begin with Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet for Matt's team.
The first question just in terms of share buybacks from here any color on how you're approaching buybacks and how we should think about the timing of buybacks through the year? Yes Rob this is Jeff Weeden.
You should think about timing of the buybacks really are going to be over the next 4 quarters.
So that's how we're viewing it.
It's not something that we're going to have an accelerated share repurchase program on.
It should be kind of evenly over the next 4 quarters.
I think in terms of people always wanting to know about price in terms of where we trade it on a book value basis or a tangible book value with a tangible book value in the $9.26 range and stated book value at about $10.26.
Certainly where we're trading today it's accretive in terms of book value tangible book value and earnings per share.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just separately given your outlook for average earning assets between $71 billion and $73 billion any sense of how we should be thinking about mix of loans versus securities as we think about that average earning assets for the rest of the year? Well we've been doing some remixing.
So as we've had loan growth that's been coming on the investment portfolio has been coming down.
So our guidance for an improving margin includes a number of different moving parts here.
One we have the repricing of our debt and CDs that are coming up.
The second part is just the cash flows coming off of investment securities and reinvesting that either in loans or in lower-yielding investments to some extent.
But that's how we're remixing that overall balance sheet.
And we will take our next question from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask you to go into a little bit more color on your expectations for loans to grow.
Obviously they were a little bit stepped-back this quarter because of exit and CRE.
So can you just talk to also about like where you expect the majority of loan growth to come from? And also at what point do we actually see that stabilization in CRE and leasing lines? Ken this is Jeff Weeden.
The business guys are going to talk here in just a second.
But one of the things that we went back and we talked about in the fourth quarter was we said we had a number of loans the balances came up in the fourth quarter and we expected actually some of those to be paid down in the first quarter.
There's some bridge loan activity that was in there and so that's part and parcel of it.
We also had the leverage lease that paid off in the first quarter which was around $70 million.
So that had some impact on it.
On that leasing line that you're referring to the part that's in the exit portfolio there may be some lumpiness in that depending on if we have other opportunities for early termination of these leverage leases.
But the rest of the business I think is growing fine.
And I'd ask Chris Gorman to talk first.
Let me just give you kind of a quick overview.
In short we see balances growing from here.
You asked where they're going to grow.
They're going to grow principally in the Corporate Bank in 3 areas.
One is our energy area and I'm going to come back to that in a moment.
The next is industrial.
And also we're seeing a lot of growth in health care.
Kind of big picture if you look over the last year in the Corporate Bank our loans have grown by 5.1%.
But that included a strategic runoff that we were doing in real estate of call it 10%.
And on the other side of the equation in our corporate and investment bank year-over-year on an average basis we actually grew them 36% 37%.
So we are through that in the real estate book which means we're well positioned to grow from here.
We actually look at our backlogs and feel very good about them.
I'll give you a kind of one example of kind of finding these niches and that is in the area of both wind and solar.
We were left lead on 10 deals that raised well over $1 billion in the first quarter.
So again Ken our growth is going to come from picking these niches and continuing to be able to garner new clients.
So that's how we're going to grow.
And in the Community Bank Ken we're seeing continued strength in our pipelines.
We also see some strong activity in health care for a lot of the same reasons.
Chris sees it on the upper end of the market.
And if you look at it regionally the Northeast continues to be pretty strong and consistently so.
The Great Lakes continues to see a lot of activity.
Probably our strongest region over the past 4 5 quarters I would say has been at the Great Lakes.
And activity in general in many of the manufacturing sectors where we are strong as an organization continues to be pretty good.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up question just on expenses you guys have done a really nice job of really holding the line on expenses.
And I'm just wondering what opportunities do you still see to even take cost out of the business.
I know you talked about not necessarily doing Keyvolution too but with a still high efficiency ratio what can we see kind of still coming out as you continue to work on that? Yes Ken this is Beth.
And that's a good question.
And we made reference to it in our remarks that clearly in this operating and economic environment continued focus on expenses is one of the levers we all have to work with to enhance our performance.
So while Keyvolution is complete and you're seeing the benefit of that in our disciplined expense ratio that has been coming through in our guidance $700 million to $725 million in noninterest expense quarterly we do have continuing programs a focus on continuous improvement and are continuing to look at opportunities for sourcing procurement.
As we invest in client-facing positions we're also looking at how we can align our backroom operations and other things that we are doing that are not core to our client experience.
So we continue to do a variety of things it is a culture of continuous improvement and have a number of initiatives underway that we will think will continue to enhance our efficiency ratio as it relates to the expense side.
And Jeff do you have any other comment? No I think that summarized it well.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can we go back to the Corporate and Community Bank reference that you guys both had year-over-year loan growth but it looks like your net interest revenue was flat to slightly down in both of the subs there.
Can you give us some color on what's going on with pricing? Gerard it's Chris.
Well I mean the first thing is just generally low interest and the squeeze in terms of margins.
What we're seeing in the marketplace though is that structure is generally holding.
We're seeing just a little bit of pressure around the edges on pricing but not to a degree that it's concerning us at all.
I think what you're seeing is the impact of deposits candidly as you look at those numbers.
And Gerard this is Bill Koehler.
And in the Community Bank we're seeing similar trends on loan spreads that Chris mentioned.
But the bigger driver for us in this area is the value of our deposits in this environment we continue to get pressure there.
And it's the same story we've been talking about for a number of quarters now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jeff you mentioned your outlook for net charge-offs.
I think you and Beth said I think normalized.
It's in the 50 basis point level of average loans.
And currently your charge-offs are around 80 basis points.
The provision will eventually match the charge-offs if I heard it correctly.
When do you think you can get to a normalized net charge-off level? Gerard this is Chuck.
It's hard to predict the timing of this.
But I think if you look at our core business and the kinds of business that we're putting on today and if you look at the chart on Page 16 you can see where we are today.
And then the CF&amp;A category we're at 31 basis points.
That's a big part of our portfolio.
If you look on our leasing portfolio you'll see actually nothing there.
So I think that's a pretty good indicator of the kind of commercial business that we're writing and where we will get to over time.
I think some of the noncore business which we still have although it's shrinking all the time is still where the higher charge-off numbers are.
So how you project that trajectory is a little hard to do clearly dependent upon the economy and various other things.
But I think it is still a range that is very achievable for this organization.
And Gerard this is Beth.
I would add that we made a comment in our last quarterly call that to the extent that we do see growth in CF&amp;A our new business volumes and our new originations which are heavily candid towards new client acquisitions are coming in at a higher quality and a higher credit quality than our existing books.
So if you remix and grow the balance sheet that will have a positive impact on the level of net charge-offs as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
If the net charge-offs stays stubbornly around 75 basis points into the middle of next year and with your guys comments about provision and eventually reaching the charge-offs should we expect the provision to get that high? Or is it more of a provision to the normalized levels that we should be focused on? Well Gerard I guess -- this is Jeff Weeden.
I think in terms of the nonperformers also continuing to migrate on down.
And clearly as Chuck talked about it some of these exit books that are still out there they'll run a little bit higher on the charge-offs level.
So if we're still at the 75 basis points next year I think you have to look at what's the forward look at that particular point in time.
So it's all about the existing book you have a provision or reserve for and it's your forward look that you are trying to anticipate business volume et cetera.
So I would think in terms of the provision expense normalizing in that 40 to 50 basis point range first and then seeing the charge-offs kind of work their way down so...
LLC Research Division</strong> Good to know.
Okay.
And finally Jeff on the buyback you mentioned you think it will be spread out over the 12-month period.
Is there anything that would prevent you guys from completing the buyback this year? And then tying into that with your return on equity around 8.25% which I assume is less than your cost of capital based on your internal models when do you think the return on equity number would exceed your cost of capital? Okay.
Well Gerard we're not giving a specific guidance on the return on equity at this particular point in time.
I think with respect to the buyback provisions the capital plan that was submitted had the buybacks over the 4-quarter time period.
And that's you should view the overall plan is lasting over that 4 quarters.
Our next question comes from Josh Levin from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yesterday one of your competitors sounded very bullish on the economic and lending environment in the Midwest.
They talked about a recovery and they specifically talked about the impact of the energy shales.
How would you characterize the Midwest economic and lending environment relative to maybe what it was 6 to 9 months ago? Josh it's Chris Gorman.
It remain -- I mean here's what's going on our -- the companies in the Midwest continue to do well.
They continue to recover.
They're obviously not recovering at a pace that all of us would like them to recover.
Having said that there are some real bright spots that happened to play very well with the kind of things that we do here at Key.
First is the industrial companies that are here are major exporters that's one driver.
You mentioned the shale play.
We're participating in that in a significant way in that we have an oil and gas business.
But in addition to that for example in our M&amp;A business right now in our backlog a very significant percentage of a backlog that's elevated are people that supply into the frac-ing process which is driven by the shale plays.
So there's no question we're benefiting from it.
I'll let Bill Koehler cover what's going on.
And also the shale plays by the way benefit our retail customers as well because they in many cases when you look at places like the Utica Shale field are the owners of the land that's being leased for the shale play.
Bill? And I would say as well that as we talk to our clients there confidence is growing in the smaller end of the market which to me says that the economy is overall has strengthened.
They are serving some of the same industries Chris talked about.
They are getting more clarity in their business about -- in their order book.
And as a result they are seeing a lot more opportunity to continue to drive growth in the business.
Josh the one thing we're not seeing yet and we're watching very carefully we're not seeing our customers and clients growing employment.
So that's one area that I would say continues to lag.
The other area that lags is we don't see huge capital outlays for big new plants.
We do see around the edges people starting to invest in technology equipment people investing in working capital people investing on the margin.
And in health care where in Ohio obviously the demographics would suggest that we need continue to support the needs there over time.
We are seeing a lot of new construction and consolidation of services across the full value chain within the health care industry.
And as a result we think we're very well positioned from a Community Bank and the Corporate Bank perspective to serve the needs of the industry overall with some very integrated capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just on a separate note you have assets outside of the Midwest you have those assets in Colorado Alaska Florida.
Would you ever consider selling them and redeploying the capital for other uses? Josh this is Beth.
We obviously constantly evaluate our franchise and our opportunities to strengthen invest grow our business as well as rationalize our business.
And we have always said never say never.
Everything over time is always needing to be revalidated.
At this point in time relative to our footprint all our markets are accretive to Key's performance and we don't see any particular ability to appropriately redeploy what could be any potential gain or funds from such a repositioning.
As always the way the character of the franchise was built there would always be tax consequences.
So as we look at it now our goal is to optimize our performance.
We have market-by-market growth strategies and continue to improve the performance.
But the mix of our businesses right now for the foreseeable future are where we're positioned.
Our next question comes from Steve Scinicariello from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the -- this building on the success that you've had with the HSBC acquisition.
Just kind of curious as you look out and talking about capital deployment do you see more types of opportunities to continue to round out some parts of the franchise like the HSBC deal as you kind of look forward? And if so would you like to do more of them? Steve this is Beth.
We do think that the HSBC transaction is indicative of an opportunity with actually minimal capital to strengthen our presence in 2 key markets.
It would be what I would call a small fill-in where we enhance our presence in Buffalo and in an attractive market such as Rochester to us.
So in the right circumstances we would absolutely be disciplined and opportunistic about what we could do to augment our franchise where we can leverage our business model where we can garner new clients and really put to use the alignment between our Corporate and our Community Bank.
So as time progresses and opportunities present themselves we would look to have a point of view to be -- underscore a theme I have also said in the past.
But we would be very disciplined about the amount of capital about what is an appropriate price and that it really does strengthen not only our franchise but strengthens and has a proper return for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just kind of following with the expense management team and going along with kind of further optimization of the network.
I assume you would also kind of look to maybe not you're going to exit any markets but just kind of further optimize your positioning within those.
So could there be some kind of pruning along some parts of the franchise just in keeping with what we're talking about in terms of optimization? This is Bill Koehler.
There absolutely is.
We are constantly looking at our branch footprint in the context of our overall cost structure returns in each of the branches as well as overall channel strategy and our de novo strategy.
What you will see this year is we are likely to open roughly half of what we've opened last year in the form of branches and the lion's share of those will be relocations or consolidations not strictly de novos.
So on a net basis you won't see a lot of branch growth year-over-year.
But we'll reposition our businesses to parts of our markets where -- frankly where our customers are so we can provide a continued focus on convenience that they demand.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last quick one.
I know as part of the CCAR capital plan approval you had sought to repurchase some trust preferreds.
And I know you didn't quantify the amount but I was just curious if there is a certain kind of target amount that you like to redeem.
I know you've got the request out there for approval to -- but I was just curious if you could quantify just how much you're looking to buy back? Sure.
This is Joe Vayda.
I'll take that question.
We have about $1 billion remaining in outstanding trust preferreds.
And each has its own unique economics to the issuer.
But we're evaluating particularly those that have regulatory capital treatment call provisions.
And that includes primarily the Series 10s which is about $560 million outstanding.
They cannot be called without a capital treatment change and it's subject to further evaluation.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move on to Adam Hurwich from Ulysses.
A question as a follow-up to the first question actually where you discussed the impact on NIM on the shift between loans and securities.
One of the reasons for the size of the securities portfolio I assume has to do with the macro environment we've just been through.
Given that things are improving for the bank to what extent do you have an opportunity to reduce the liquidity in the securities portfolio in general regardless of that shift? And what would the impact potentially be on the NIM? This is Jeff Weeden.
As we look at the investment portfolio the investment portfolio has been stored liquidity for us.
So if you think about it we've been more liability-driven.
So we have the liabilities.
We've parked some of the excess liquidity in the investment portfolio.
The investment portfolio itself is turning about $500 million of cash flow each and every month at this point in time with these particular rates.
So we have reinvestment opportunities that happen all the time.
So I think as we look at it and we say that we have loan growth we'll put it into loans at that particular point in time.
And that's why you've seen the overall portfolio come down.
The other part is on the liability management side of the equation.
So to the extent we have debt maturities which we have $1 billion that matures in June of some TLGP debt we will look at where the overall flow of deposits are.
Deposits have still been positive for us.
So to the extent we have positive deposits flows and we have a loan demand that's out there that continues at basically what our expectations are we will have some degree of need to reinvest in our securities portfolio each and every quarter.
But that's factored into our overall guidance.
So we've taken all of that into account as we've looked at our net interest margin guidance that we've provided for 2012.
So Jeff if I understand you correctly what it sounds like is given these flows you don't see a material drop in the total assets of the bank this year.
That is correct.
We actually provided our guidance was for $71 billion to $73 billion of average earning assets.
And that's predicated too on the fact that we know we have these debt maturities we have CDs that are repricing.
But we also have positive deposit flows in other areas in the transactions and regulated accounts.
And I'll take our next question from Mike Turner from Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one asset question regarding the Fed's new guidance in first quarter or regarding NPL accounting for HELOCs or for second liens.
I know over 50% of your home equity portfolio is first lien.
Maybe -- there didn't seem to be any impact in the quarter on your NPL accounting.
Maybe you can just speak to that reserve accounting and why there was no commensurate increase at all in NPLs.
Yes Mike this is Chuck Hyle.
We have been I think quite fortunate in our HELOC portfolio over the years in terms of how we've underwritten it.
You mentioned the fact that well over 50% are first liens.
We've been tracking that information.
We've been tracking the firsts that we do have that others have that we don't on our seconds.
We think we have very strong methodologies in terms of understanding the quality of that book.
It has performed we think on a relative basis very well through the cycle.
We do very aggressive work on looking at credit bureau scores every 2 months.
We have a quarterly appraisal mechanism.
And all that has been factored into our provisioning effort.
We have a lot of quantitative analysis around that.
And as a result with the new guidance that has come out really we view it as having virtually no impact on our portfolio.
And I think our performance has underscored our approach to that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And so what percentage for those HELOCs where you don't own the first but there is one what percentage of those do you actually have data on the first lien? I can't give you the exact number but we worked through various vendors to track that information.
And we have I think a pretty good fix on what is out there.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Lammers at (216) 689-3133.
That concludes our remarks.
Thank you.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Good day and welcome to the KeyCorp's Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Ms.
Mooney please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
And also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Treasurer Joe Vayda; and our new Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Slide 3 highlights the significant events in the second quarter.
I'll start with our earnings announcement this morning.
We reported second quarter net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $221 million or $0.23 per common share.
This is an increase of 11% from the first quarter.
Our second quarter results reflect another quarter of loan growth continued improvement in credit quality and disciplined expense control.
As Jeff will discuss in his remarks our expenses this quarter included some costs related to our branch acquisition and our new efficiency initiative.
The increase in loan balances was driven by the fifth consecutive quarter of growth in C&amp;I loans and our successful spring home equity lending campaign.
The improvement in credit quality was also noteworthy.
Nonperforming assets declined for the 11th consecutive quarter and net charge-offs were down to 63 basis points which is the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2007.
In order to maintain our momentum especially in light of the weak recovery and the ongoing regulatory changes we announced a number of new company-wide efficiency initiatives that I will discuss in a moment.
These initiatives build on the success of our Keyvolution program and will improve our competitive position by lowering our cost structure and aligning it with the current operating environment.
Last week we also completed the acquisition of 37 branches in upstate New York strengthening our market share in 2 very attractive markets and positioning us to acquire and grow client relationships.
The final few items on this slide highlight our continuing commitment to disciplined capital management.
In addition to leveraging our strong capital position through our acquisition we've also continued to return capital to our shareholders by repurchasing stock and by increasing our common stock dividend from $0.03 to $0.05 per share in the second quarter.
On Slide 4 we provide more detail on the areas we are targeting for our new efficiency initiative.
This is a proactive and purposeful response to the rapid changes that continue to take place in our industry.
In addition to plans designed to enhance and grow revenue one of the most effective levers we have is to lower our cost base and create a more -- a variable expense structure.
This will allow us to better serve our customers by enhancing our speed to market for new products and services and ensuring that our capabilities are fully aligned with our relationship strategy.
Areas of focus include strategic sourcing branch rationalization procurement sales and service productivity and occupy -- optimizing our occupancy spend.
They not only improve efficiency but also increase our flexibility so we can adapt more readily to economic regulatory and competitive changes.
On the expense side we are targeting reductions of $150 million to $200 million by December 2013 which we expect to be fully reflected in our run rate the following year.
A number of our efforts have already begun and we would expect to make meaningful progress toward our goal this year.
Using our current levels of revenue and expense as a baseline this is intended to move us to our long-term efficiency ratio target of 60% to 65%.
Turning to Slide 5.
I mentioned earlier we also completed the acquisition of 37 branches in upstate New York.
You can see on the map how this strengthens our market share in 2 attractive markets.
The liquidity provided by this acquisition allows us to be flexible with debt maturities and can be used to fund organic growth opportunities.
We also gained benefits and capabilities such as ATM check imaging that we can now leverage to deliver client-focused solutions and improve our client experience.
At the same time we will be able to enhance our efficiency because we can leverage our existing cost structure across a larger base.
And the conversion by the way went according to plan and we received positive reaction from customers employees and the community.
On Slide 6 let me make a few comments on shareholder value.
Since assuming the CEO role in May of 2011 we have continued to strengthen our balance sheet de-risk the company and reposition our businesses to align more closely with our relationship-based customer strategy.
Though business conditions and regulatory changes have created challenges we are gaining momentum and we have made progress on our financial targets.
Looking ahead we will continue to make investments for growth that align with our relationship strategy.
At the same time we intend to develop a cost structure that is more efficient and more variable relative to our business flows.
And finally one of our highest priorities remains disciplined capital management.
We are looking for and taking advantage of opportunities to invest and deploy capital for growth such in our branch acquisition in upstate New York.
And in addition we expect to continue returning a portion of our capital to shareholders.
Now let me turn our call over to Jeff for some further comments on the second quarter.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 8 provides a summary of the company's second quarter 2012 results from continuing operations.
As we reported this morning the company earned a net profit from continuing operations of $0.23 per common share in the second quarter compared to $0.21 in the first quarter of this year and $0.26 for the second quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 9.
Average total loans for the second quarter were relatively flat compared to the first quarter of this year.
We continue to experience good growth in our C&amp;I loans and also had growth in our branch-based home equity loans.
Average balances of C&amp;I loans increased during the second quarter compared to the first quarter of 2012 by approximately $500 million or 2.5% unannualized to  $20.1 billion.
And average balances of our Community Bank home equity loans increased approximately $200 million or 2% unannualized as a result of our very successful spring home equity borrowing campaign.
Both of these loan categories also showed growth in period-end balances compared to March 31 2012 increasing 3% and 4.9% respectively unannualized.
In addition we saw a growth in total period-end loans of approximately $400 million and this was after approximately $500 million reduction in our exit loan portfolio during the second quarter.
The reduction in the exit loan portfolio was from normal amortization and the early termination of leverage leases.
Continue to Slide 10.
On the liability side of the balance sheet our trend of improving deposit mix continued into the second quarter where we experienced an increase in average balances of non-time deposits of approximately $2 billion or 4% unannualized.
Contributing to this increase were the movement of certain funds previously invested in our Victory Money Market Mutual Fund that we discussed last quarter and the movement of certain escrow balances back to Key as a result of the arrangement that we entered into with Berkadia late in the first quarter.
The combination of these 2 events accounted for approximately $1 billion of the increase we experienced.
Average balances of time deposits declined approximately $600 million during the second quarter.
Noted on this slide under the highlights are the scheduled maturities of the existing CD book at June 30 2012.
Of note here is the approximately $2.5 billion of CDs maturing during the third quarter at an average cost of 2.23%.
New CDs on average book during the first 6 months of 2012 have been at an average cost of approximately 30 basis points.
Turning to Slide 11.
Credit quality continued its improvement again this quarter with net charge-offs declining to $77 million or 63 basis points of average loan balances for the second quarter of 2012.
The primary reason for the improvement was driven by stronger recoveries on commercial loans.
Our nonperforming loans declined to 1.32% of period-end loans at June 30 2012.
Nonperforming home equity loans increased this quarter as a result of obtaining additional information on the past due status the first mortgages serviced by others where we hold the home equity loans.
This increased our nonperforming home equity loans by approximately $36 million during the quarter.
We do not anticipate a similar increase going forward.
Other real estate owned declined by more than 50% during the second quarter through sales and valuation adjustments and our remaining inventories stood at just $28 million at June 30.
Our reserve for loan losses represented 1.79% of period-end loans and 135% coverage of nonperforming loans at June 30.
On Page 23 in the Appendix we provide a long-term trend of past due and criticized loans both of which continued to show improvement through June 30.
With respect to the second half of 2012 our outlook for credit quality remains consistent with our comments made earlier this year.
We continue to anticipate modest improvement in both asset quality and net charge-offs with net charge-offs continuing to move closer to our long-term target of 40 to 50 basis points of average loans.
Turning to Slide 12.
For the second quarter of 2012 the company's net interest margin was 3.06% compared to 3.16% for the first quarter.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $544 million for the second quarter down from $559 million in the first quarter primarily as a result of early termination of leverage leases.
The impact of the leverage leases on net interest income and the net interest margin for the second quarter was a reduction of $13 million and 7 basis points respectively.
Average earning assets were up $546 million to $71.9 billion for the second quarter compared to the first quarter primarily as a result of higher short-term investment balances in anticipation of scheduled debt maturities during the second quarter.
With the second quarter debt maturities of $1.4 billion $1 billion of which occurred on June 15 the redemption of $707 million of trust preferred securities on July 12 and the scheduled maturities of higher costing CDs during the third quarter we looked for the net interest margin to increase to the 3.20% range and for average earning assets to remain in the $71 billion to $73 billion range for the second half of 2012.
Fee income was positively impacted from the gains that we realized from the early termination of certain leverage leases and we anticipate additional early termination activities in the second half of 2012.
Turning to Slide 13.
Noninterest expense for the second quarter of 2012 remained well-controlled at $714 million up $11 million from the first quarter.
Included in our expenses for the second quarter was approximately $5 million in costs related to our acquisition of branches in upstate New York.
Higher professional fees partially related to our new efficiency initiatives and an increase in marketing costs related to our successful spring home equity lending campaign.
In addition the provision for losses on lending-related commitments was an expense of $6 million in the second quarter compared to nothing in the first quarter of 2012 and a credit of $12 million for the same quarter last year.
As Beth commented earlier we are taking another look at our costs and to set a target of taking $150 million to $200 million of expenses out by the end of next year with the full run rate benefit in 2014.
This goal will require us to look at the structural nature of our costs and is necessary to address the changing economics that we and the industry are facing from pricing controls and the extended low rate environment.
We intend to make changes that will make us more nimble and able to scale up and down as necessary in response to changes in customer demand and preferences.
We also need to continue to make investments for future growth and to ensure that we can meet the ever-changing regulatory demands.
The changes to reach this goal will require difficult but necessary decisions to improve our efficiency and profitability over the long term.
We will have more to report on this effort as we proceed through the next several quarters.
And finally turning to Slide 14.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at June 30 2012 at 10.4% and 11.7% respectively placing us in the top quartile of our peer group on these ratios.
During the second quarter we've repurchased 10.5 million shares of common stock at an average cost of $7.83 per share and we will continue to execute on our share repurchase authorization during the third quarter.
As noted on this slide we estimate our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio under the Federal Reserve's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking as of June 30 at 10.9% which we believe will place us in the strong capital position relative to our peers on this measure.
On Slide 25 in the Appendix we include the adjustments from our current Basel I Tier 1 common ratio to the estimated Basel III ratio.
This estimate is based on the proposed rules on a fully phased-in basis and remains subject to change until the rules become final.
That concludes our remarks.
And now I will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you start by giving more color on the comments to rationalize the branch network and maybe specifically address plans to close or sell branches? Steven this is Bill Koehler.
We in the face of the present environment when we recognize the need to rationalize our branches while also repositioning them in a way that allows us to provide the right convenience for our customers where they are.
So as we think about rationalization it takes 2 avenues.
The first is looking for stranded branches branches in markets where they're not contributing to density or the client experience we're trying to create.
And in doing so we see a number of opportunities throughout our entire footprint.
We've already made or notified the OCC and some of our customers in 17 cases.
The other is continuing to invest in a very selective basis in our priority markets to a much lower focus on de novos and much higher focus than we've done in the past on relocations and consolidations again to position our branches more closely to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any high-level thoughts on what ultimate consolidation might look like for the branch network? Overall we are expecting over the next 18 months to take out as many as 5% of our branches.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one maybe for Jeff do you expect the magnitude of the pressure on loan yields we saw this quarter to continue going forward and is this just a function of the competitive environment? Yes.
In terms of the overall pricing pressure on loans I think it's just part of it is a remixing of the portfolio so we continue to have some maturities that are coming off.
And I think we have worked through a lot of that at this point in time.
New volume yields have been relatively stable for the last 3 quarters.
So from that perspective I didn't see a lot of overall change.
I don't know if Chris if you want to make [ph] any comments on? Sure.
Steve I completely agree with Jeff.
While there's been on the margin a little bit of pressure over the last 18 months it's basically holding in terms of structure and in terms of pricing.
The other thing of course to keep in mind as you think about our business in the Corporate Bank we are deriving about 54% of our revenues from non-interest income.
So we actually feel pretty good about the competitive landscape right now.
I guess one last comment Steve I'd make is that the leverage lease impact hit the commercial loan overall yields.
So if we look at the -- from the margin analysis that was on Page 18 adding back $13  million worth of the hit that plays for writing off fees associated with the origination of those particular leases impacted the overall margin by about -- on commercial loans about 15 basis points.
So on an adjusted basis we'd be closer to the 409 for the total portfolio versus the 394.
But there is some as a remixing there was some overall downward movement even without that adjustment.
And we will go next to Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a high-level question for you Beth.
I mean first off I thought the expense initiative announcement was excellent and that's definitely going to increase your future run rate.
But on the other side of the equation on the revenue side I was just kind of curious as you kind of look across the franchise broadly where do you see kind of the biggest potential revenue opportunities whether it's by business line or geographic? Just kind of interested on the revenue side for increased profitability as well as the expense initiative that you announced.
Yes Steve.
A number of things that we're looking at I mentioned that we continue to invest for growth.
So we have several initiatives within the company such as how we're positioning ourselves in healthcare work that we're doing in our enterprise commercial payment space.
We have done a number of things where we're enhancing product capabilities adding to our sales force and creating programs that we believe will grow revenue over time.
We're also looking at the inherent productivity of our sales force and our product mix within it.
So that's another opportunity where we're going to spend a lot of time making sure we have the right people against the right products in the right market.
So we still [ph] look generally across our geography and see an opportunity there as well.
And then we continue to see momentum in our -- what we call our distinctive business model between the alignment of our Corporate Bank and our Community Bank to really across a continuum of businesses from $25 million in sales up to $1.5 billion.
We're offering more holistic products from lending deposits treasury management into the Capital Markets capability that we continue to win clients be able to meet more holistic needs and increase our revenue through the alignment of those 2 businesses.
So we have a variety of things where we are very optimistic about our initiatives in revenue.
Steve I'd live to have maybe Chris talk about one of the other things because we talked about Berkadia and the arrangement we have but that hits both on the cost side as well as some of the revenue capabilities that we have in the company.
Sure Jeff.
So Berkadia is an interesting transaction that basically touches sort of both sides of the equation both revenue and expense.
We have been through our third-party commercial loan servicing operation a large servicer of Moody's-rated deposits.
Moody's rates about 65% of the CMBS market.
The CMBS market at one point was close to $300 billion.
We think this year it's going to be a $35 billion market.
So as we thought about our inability to bid on Moody's-rated CMBS projects we entered into this JV this agreement with Berkadia whereby we swapped deposits.
So the net result of it was we basically were able to garner deposits on the tune of $610 million.
And most importantly it put us in a position to bid in the future on Moody's-related business.
We've been fortunate enough to win some of that business.
And then the other piece of it Jeff that you alluded to in your comments is the variability of the cost structure.
So by doing so we were able to take out 80 positions which was about 23% of the workforce and variabilize our cost structure in the event that the CMBS market doesn't return to the previously high levels.
And we will go next to Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just on the efficiency ratio goal of 60% to 65% or 69% today.
I'm wondering how much of that improvement are you expecting from credit quality? And then are you expecting any spend that would offset the improvement from both credit quality and then your planned expense initiative of 150 to 200? Well there's some remaining on the credit quality.
But you can see that in terms of what we have overall on other real estate expense for example this quarter is probably a good example.
It was $7 million.
The balances that are in other real estate have now come down dramatically at $28 million at the end of the quarter.
And I think the overall level of nonperforming loans continues to trend down.
So we are future prospects of having other real estate are going to go back to what I'd call a more normal level.
You're always going to have some.
You're always going to have some credit cost.
The reserve for unfunded commitments was up this particular quarter and that will be a function of both migration of credit as well as the overall level of commitments that are outstanding.
So that becomes a little bit choppier and more challenging to predict on that.
Well we've already taken out a significant amount of cost associated with our workout area and have redeployed those individuals into other parts of the company.
So there's some with credit not a lot with credit.
This is really getting at other areas of the company.
If we think about -- we did a lot with Keyvolution with backroom consolidation.
There's still more work that's being done on some of the consolidation efforts.
And then we get into some of the occupancy costs.
So as we go through and we have vacancy around the company what we're doing is really restacking and eliminating some of our occupancy overall.
If you think about every foot on average it is $28 to $30 a foot.
If you can take out a million square feet across the company that's a big run rate savings overall.
Those are the things that we're really focusing on.
But I think as Beth talked about and as Chris talked about we're also looking at what our reinvestments are into the future.
Bill talked a little bit about repositioning some of the branch network while coming down in total branches doing some repositioning too.
And then just looking at what we're doing on a commercial payment side and some of our other initiatives.
We're using this too as an opportunity where we can make investments to grow revenue long term but we do have to have that overall efficiency get down into our goal of 60% to 65%.
Research Division</strong> And just a pause [ph] there you pointed OREO expense and provisions they were only $13 million in the quarter.
So as you point out very marginal improvement left there.
If I take the high end of your objective of $200 million that's about 5% on the efficiency ratio on today's revenue.
That gets you from 69 to 64.
I'm just wondering how do you get from 64 to 60 to the lower end of your range? I guess that's all -- is that all revenue improvement at that point? Craig it does have to have revenue overall improvement.
That's why we continue to make investments to grow the revenue and grow other parts of the company.
So we know we can't cut ourselves to prosperity but we have to be leaner and we have to be more efficient.
And we will go next to Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So your -- I wanted to ask more about the thought process behind these new cost savings initiatives and the branch rationalization.
It sounds a bit more strategic than -- as more of a strategic decision than just cost-cutting.
Was it just the low rate environment or are there other factors that sort of caused you to go ahead with these initiatives? Josh this is Beth Mooney.
I'll go ahead and take that question.
I think it is clear that we are as an industry operating in what all of us would concur I believe is a challenging rate environment extended low interest rate low GDP a cautious sentiment among American businesses and specifically in our client base and then you add the increasing cost of regulation that is impacting us as well.
And you put all those together and it is clear as I said that we needed to be purposeful and proactive in addressing our cost base and our plans for revenue in light of those industry economics.
So yes there is very much a strategic point of view that we are in an environment that should last for several years call it a new normal and that we should realign our business plans strategies and expenses to reflect that environment.
And then from there we clearly need to be tactical in how we get there.
So we are in the process of planning evaluating and creating implementation plans that will help us create that path to those savings.
And as we think about a number of the initiatives they are strategic.
They are strategic in how we can also grow revenue deep in our client base and acquire clients.
So it is a combination of both.
But this environment we believe will be extended and requires us to respond and be more proactive in our plans.
Research Division</strong> So my follow-up question would be given your view that there's this extended new normal period it's going to be a tough period for banks.
Would you consider shrinking the balance sheet given this is going to last for a few years? Maybe returning capital to shareholders and then when the cycle ultimately does turn then you can grow the balance sheet then? Is that part of your thought process also? Josh this is Jeff Weeden.
We've already gone through a tremendous amount of balance sheet restructuring.
So if look at where we are today at 86% 87% loan-to-deposit ratio we have been paying down our overall debt.
So we saw another $1.4 billion of debt maturities in the first quarter.
We had $707 million of the trust preferreds that we retired deemed last week.
That's all part and parcel to it.
We've brought on the deposits from the upstate New York branch acquisition we completed also last Friday.
It is a repositioning of the balance sheet.
We've got a much more what I'd call a productive balance sheet.
It's core-funded.
And we're really set for overall growth there.
Our capital ratios are already high.
And of course returning capital is one of our targeted objectives here.
But it's something that we work in conjunction with the regulators and go through the CCAR process.
And we were pleased that we could return or have authorization to return $344 million in common share repurchases plus the increase in the dividend that took effect last quarter.
And we will go next to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up a bit on the timing of the cost savings.
Beth you'd said there'd be I don't know if you said meaningful or material progress this year.
Just as we think about the 150 to 200 million coming in over the next 6 quarters or so should it be relatively steady front ended back ended? Matt this is Jeff Weeden.
So we've spent a lot of time here in the last several quarters going through our expenses and setting forth initiatives.
But these initiatives do take a period of time to fully implement.
So we've started on some of the things we're already doing.
So if you talked about the Berkadia transaction verbalizing some of our cost there.
We have initiatives that are underway and they will continue to gain momentum.
And I think you'll see most of that in 2013.
There will be some savings here by the end of 2012.
But I would frame it more in the $30 million to $50 million run rate.
And Matt I would say one piece that I think is important is that we will give with this call each quarter updates on specific initiatives and run rate savings.
So we will be continuing to report out on this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that would be helpful.
And then just as we put it all together on the expense side I mean let's hope revenue growth but just holding revenue constant will we see expenses decline on a net basis? I mean you talked about some investments that still -- that you'll be making some reallocation of cost but will expenses decline off of the 2Q level of $714 million? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately on the net interest margin.
I think you said it would be 3.2% in the back half of this year? In the range of 3.20%.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that include any of the leverage lease hits? Obviously there's a hit to net interest income and then a gain in fees.
But would that include any of the early termination of the leases? Matt those are more choppy and difficult to predict.
So while we have opportunities that are out there it does not.
So in other words what we do is we will identify what those leverage lease items are because I couldn't tell you specifically which ones may hit at this particular point in time.
They are different in terms of how much they have in terms of capitalized origination costs against them.
And we will go next to Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on your again yet again your efficiency target.
If I look back at your presentation in terms of your targets in the first quarter and compare it to this quarter the efficiency target hasn't changed.
It was always 60% to 65%.
I'm wondering if this cost initiative had always been something that you were planning to do over the next few years but just haven't detailed to the Street or whether there was some downgrading of the revenue outlook over the past 3 months? Erica this is Beth.
We have been working and part of what we said in our comments that we have been working on plans for several quarters now.
And I would tell you that this has been a culture of continuous improvement and we recognized as part of our target of 60% to 65% that we would need to be more effective in our cost structure.
So it is not necessarily new thinking.
We shared this morning our goals to make it clear how our path to 60% to 65% takes form and over what time as part of giving clarity and more insight into what our thinking and planning has been.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's clear.
And just a follow-up question for Jeff.
Thank you so much for giving us the volume of funding that's going to mature or reprice for the second half of the year.
But could you give us a sense of what the rates are of the debt and the troughs and the CDs that are rolling off and what your plan is for replacement from both a volume and a rate perspective? Yes.
So in terms of the TLGP debt that matured on June 15 the $1 billion was at approximately 1 month LIBOR plus 200 to 210 in that range.
The trust preferreds we swapped back.
So the $707 million that we redeemed on June -- on July 12 I'm sorry.
$139 million was at the 3-month LIBOR plus 79 on a swap basis.
And the $568 million which would have been the capital tens that we had out there they had an 8% coupon but we'd swap those back to basically 3-month LIBOR plus about 236 240.
And then on the CDs I think we've covered that earlier.
There's over a $1 billion of the CDs that are out there that mature in the third quarter better at about a 5.06% 5.07% cost on them.
But that's reflected in that overall $2.5 billion blended rate at 2.23%.
And of course on the asset side of the equation we expect that we'll have continuing cash flows coming off of our investment portfolio.
That's been running at about $1.5 billion a quarter or $500 million per month.
And what's been coming off is around 3% and the reinvestment rates are closer to 1.6% to 1.75%.
And we will go next to Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
Just a couple of questions from a modeling standpoint here.
I know credit has been improving.
I'm just trying to get a feel for where you guys feel comfortable from a reserves to loan standpoint going forward? Okay.
Well all right from a reserve-to-loan standpoint of course this is something we build up each and every quarter.
And it's really going to be dictated by our forward look also of the portfolio and the embedded risk that's in that portfolio.
And that has been with positive migration of credit.
And again I'll point you to the classified assets -- or criticized assets at the back of our investor that continues to show overall improvement along with the nonperformers et cetera.
So it's trending down.
Our coverage ratio I think on annualized second quarter charge-offs were about 2.8x right now in that particular range.
So I think if we continue on this path and we get down to that 40 to 50 basis point you're going to see reserves continue to come down some but not necessarily as dramatic as what they have in the past as we get closer and closer to that 40 to 50 basis point net charge-off ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one more question.
I know the mix on the branch tier were largely core deposits but do you guys happen to have the rate on those deposits available? Yes.
I think we'd just look -- we'd point you to our overall blended rate that we have in our portfolio and we've identified what that is in our slides.
If you look at that just probably around 10 basis points on transaction accounts blended.
So there's a good mix of savings account and now accounts and money market accounts in that particular portfolio.
And we will go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
My first question is just on pre-provision net revenue.
Jeff last quarter you had given a range of $290 to $330 million.
And on a reported basis you guys were kind of right in the middle there this quarter.
Obviously a lot of moving parts.
But I was wondering if you could give an updated outlook just on where you expect the PPNR to run for the remainder of the year? Well Bryan we really haven't changed our overall outlook for the remaining part of the year.
Last quarter we gave a range of $290 million to $330 million.
I think that's a consistent range.
A number of the things that we have under our initiatives are intended to show overall improvement in that as we get into 2013 and beyond.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up on credit.
It looked like nonperforming inflows were up a little bit in the quarter.
I know you guys spoke to the home equity reclass on the call.
But was there anything else driving that increase quarter-over-quarter? Bryan this is Bill Hartmann.
One of the things that we have seen happening is that there's a tremendous amount of liquidity that has been in the market.
But it's looking at some of the opportunities in -- specifically in real estate loans.
We have had some performing but criticized loans where we've received some reverse inquiries from people who were willing to purchase those at relatively close to par.
The accounting for that requires that since there is a slight discount to our carrying value that we actually move those into nonperforming in order to account for that discount -- that discount does flow through the net charge-offs and then we could actually sell the assets.
So if you look at the detail that's listed on Page 26 you'll also see that the payments have risen as well reflecting the cash that's flowing through that.
And reflecting the fact that it's a near par discount the absolute level of charge-offs has been going down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This Page 26 of the earnings release? Of the earnings release.
And we will go next to Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the kind of -- following up to earlier your average loan yield was around 426 this quarter and keeping in mind I know about probably 10 basis points or so of that is due to the lease termination.
Where do you see that normalizing in this interest rate environment? Adjusting for mix and just the time of new lower-yielding loans flowing through the balance sheet? The overall yield in -- the leverage leases impacted the commercial yield.
So that's what I'll focus in on.
Adjusted that actually cost the commercial yields around 15 basis points in the current quarter.
And again I know that we have to look at overall mix and mix does have an impact and so depending on how much is fixed-rate versus variable rate.
But a large portion of our overall portfolio is variable rate and a large portion of that has already been repriced at this point in time.
So there could be additional pressure in those overall yields and that's going to come from continuation of some repricing.
But for the most part new credit has been holding very very stable I think since the third quarter of last year when they had the debt crisis and the European banks also started pulling out of the market here.
The other thing I would say Mike if I would we think the fact that our spreads have held relatively firm is a strong indication of our relationship strategy and it strengthened residents in the market in addition to what Chris talked about earlier relating to our strong FEMIX [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as a follow-up it sounds like it's -- there doesn't sound like there will be a tremendous amount of pressure is what I'm hearing it -- to summit the margin.
If I look out 2 years from now and you get the benefit accruing from CD repricing redemption and repayment of troughs basically the benefit on the liability side and flow through the impact of lower rates on the asset side and then flow in the $150 million to $200 million in savings does this if the environment stays in this -- where it is today which is what I think you and everybody is expecting does that get you to the 60% to 65% efficiency ratio? Or if we stay in this environment as well as this growth are there some other levers you've got to look at pulling? Well we're looking at the cost side more aggressively because we do expect that this rate environment will be here for an extended time period.
So we're not looking for the margin to continue a steady upward climb to our long-term target of 3.5%.
I think as you look at this particular environment we have to look at the cost side.
That's the lever that we're looking at.
And then also looking at where we will be strategic in our overall investments as a company to grow other forms of revenue that we have.
And that may be investing in certain new verticals people et cetera.
But we will be making investments in the future.
But as we said earlier we have to take costs out of the organization.
Those are structural costs that we have to get at to get to that 65% efficiency based upon no change if we had no change in revenue but we're not forecasting no change in revenue.
We're forecasting other forms of revenue that we will continue to grow in this company.
And Mike I would just add it was a 2-year out sort of view to your question.
As you sit here in this current environment I think it is important to underscore that you've managed that which you could control and took some piece of our comments and what we're sharing of our expenses today is to underscore our [indiscernible] fair line of sight around what we can control.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful that -- I mean am I hearing that you think you can get there in this environment or that will be tough? I think what we've laid out here is how we get down into our particular operating environment of 65 basically.
I think it was said by a earlier caller.
If you look at the 150 to 200 it will take 4% to 5% off of the efficiency ratio based on current revenues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry one more follow-up on a different topic.
Just hearing from other banks on the state of really commercial borrowers and really demand have you seen any change quarter-over-quarter reflecting back 3 months? I mean is there a little more uncertainty or just maybe you could characterize how your commercial borrowers are feeling right now? Sure Mike.
It's Chris Gorman.
I would say there is a greater level of hesitancy out there on the part of our commercial borrowers that we've seen over the past 6 weeks.
And I will tell you that while the businesses are performing well while they are delevered and have plenty of cash they feel pretty good about their business.
But they're concerned about macro issues.
And those macro issues depending on the day the rank order changes but it's really kind of 3 issues.
One is the fiscal cliff the second is the election and the third is Europe.
And we have seen a more cautious attitude on the macro side of things from our clients in the last 6 weeks or so.
And we're out in the market a great deal and I think that's pretty consistent.
And we will go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Jake Civiello on for Gerard.
You mentioned that the early termination of leverage leases will accelerate the reduction in the exit portfolio.
But does the reduction come entirely in the commercial lease financing category and is the decline fully reflected in the second quarter results? Well the decline that's reflected in the second quarter results are just those that had early payout along with normal amortization.
So I would -- there's both in the press release as well as on Page 22 of our slides that we have -- you'll see a breakout of that particular portfolio.
It's down to about $3.4 billion at the end of June and we have a number of categories that are just going to have normal amortization associated with them.
So without any acceleration due to early terminations of leverage leases I would expect that we would see that continue to go down $200 million to $250 million per quarter and continue to amortize on out.
And Jake those leverage leases that we bid on in our second quarter are in our exit loan portfolio under commercial lease financing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And just one other question.
With respect to the branch rationalization focus what percentage of all key branches are currently profitable? And how many of those branches reach their profitability targets? Jake this is Bill.
A substantial amount of -- a very substantial amount of our branches on a store-level basis are profitable.
We are focused though on the opportunity cost here for those that are less profitable.
Where is our opportunity to take that same expense redeploy it either in that market or in a different market with different demographics growth profile opportunity? How do we redeploy that same expense in a way that is more impactful to our revenue and strategy in that market.
So that's really how we are thinking about the rationalization effort.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just want to clarify on the question on PPNR $290 million to $330 million range that you had before.
It looks like this quarter if you surpass some of the one-time specials you're closer to the lower end of that.
Are you saying that you're still expecting that that range is achievable and maybe moreso given the expense initiative and then maybe can improve next year? How should we think about that? Well we think that range is definitely achievable because we had some of the leverage lease gains but we also had additional expenses associated in the current quarter with the expense initiative which was around $4 million to $5 million worth of our overall cost as well as what we had for the branch acquisition in upstate New York which was approximately $5 million.
And then other real estate expense was higher also this quarter as we continue to liquidate out that particular portfolio.
I think as we look forward into 2013 we'll provide updated guidance as we get -- as we usually do in the first quarter of the year.
So in January we'd expect to give that as we continue to work through our overall expense plans going forward from this point.
Research Division</strong> And then just a clarification on the expense initiative how should we think about it relative to Keyvolution? Is this a continuation of Keyvolution? Is this -- is there a named one for this? You've done a good job if you go back -- way back you had the PEG initiative.
I mean how do we think about this one? Andrew this is Beth.
It does build on the success of our Keyvolution initiative.
And some of these are a continuation of items that we did under Keyvolution.
I think Jeff mentioned the consolidation of backroom operations.
How do we look at sourcing how do we look at occupancy? How do we look at demand management? How do we generally try and get more efficient and effective? So when we stopped reporting on Keyvolution a year ago we said it created a muscle memory in this company for a continuous improvement.
So we believe it is a continuation of Keyvolution in terms of capabilities and focus.
It is not programmatic.
We don't have a name for it.
It is just a commitment to structurally reduce our costs through the levers that are available to us on to become more effective and efficient and report out on those.
Research Division</strong> Just found this question on capital with the strong Basel III level almost 11%.
How do you think about deployment of capital and the priorities near medium term? Our capital priorities continue to remain consistent and we have always said that we feel like the most important thing we need to do with our capital is continue to use it to support our organic growth opportunities that are within our franchise and for our clients.
Second we talk about dividends as a second priority for return of capital to shareholders.
Third an important recognition in another form of return of capital to shareholders would be share repurchase.
And then fourth make sure that we have adequate capital and appropriately deployed for opportunities for growth for the company.
And we will go next to Allen Charles [ph] with Schroders.
On the share repurchase given where your stock price is is there any notion of not spacing it out for the rest of the year and rather accelerating it over the next quarter or 2? Allen this is Jeff Weeden.
We are following our plan that was submitted as part of our CCAR.
And I think we've talked about that in prior calls and meetings.
And that is that we will continue on this pattern that calls for the $344 million of share repurchases beginning in the second quarter which we did and continuing through the first quarter of 2013.
[Operator Instructions] We will go next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
I mean there's been so much talk about expense in the 60% to 65% targeted ratio et cetera et cetera.
I guess I would ask this.
Given that it's beginning to look like the new normal maybe the forever new normal I guess I would ask is 60% even if you can get down to the lower part of that ratio good enough? I mean I realize that you have special challenges due to sort of the far-flung nature of your branch network et cetera.
But are you going to feel a need to go beyond that if this stuff goes on? Nancy this is Beth.
I would tell you that our target and we have been consistent with this for some time is that 60% to 65% range.
And we have talked accurately about our far-flung nature of our branch network but also the mix of our businesses will also help drive the efficiency ratio.
So we view this as an important for us to articulate our path to 60% to 65%.
And I do think it is incumbent on all institutions and bank management teams to constantly reevaluate what is important and where is the right place for us to position our aspirations and our targets relative to our peers and our performance within the industry.
So I think making steps to clarify our goal how we are going to reach our goals is important to know that we are constantly evaluating our business mix our opportunities and what are our appropriate financial targets.
And we'll go to Matthew Kieding [ph] with Barclays.
I just had a question on your effective tax rate.
It honestly fell considering what we were forecasting or I'm not sure what your expectations were but at least in our model this quarter.
And I was wondering if you could provide some forward-looking guidance on where do you think the effective tax rate will run? Matthew this is Jeff Weeden.
What impacts it and we put this in the financial highlights or the highlights of the quarter on the first page of the press release.
The fact that these leverage lease transactions the gains that we recognized on them are nontaxable under our prior agreement that we entered into with the IRS several years back.
So that's what's impacting the effective tax rate.
If we have more of these transactions it can have further impact on the overall effective tax rate.
But what we try to do is use a GAAP basis and if you look at it from a tax-equivalent perspective the effective tax rate for the year based upon what we have through the first 6 months of the year would probably be in the range of about 25% to 26%.
At this time I'd like to turn it back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And to all of you thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Lammers.
That number is (216) 689-3133.
And that concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders at Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank: Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
And also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Treasurer Joe Vayda; and our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann.
Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure statement.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Slide 3 provides some highlights on our third quarter.
Our results underscore the company's sustained drive to increase revenue reduce cost and grow the franchise.
We recorded net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders of $214 million or $0.23 per common share this morning.
Revenue for the quarter benefited from a 6% improvement in net interest income driven by 17 basis point increase in the net interest margin and continued loan growth.
C&amp;I loans rose for the sixth consecutive quarter and we surpassed our commitment to lend $5 billion to small businesses with up to $20 million in revenue 2 years ahead of schedule in this quarter.
Home equity loans reached their highest level in recent years in part due to our successful borrowing campaign we have launched.
On the cost side we are on pace to reach our targeted annual expense reductions of $150 million to $200 million by December 2013.
These efficiency initiatives will lower Key's cost structure to align with the current operating environment and should improve the company's competitive position in its markets.
During the quarter we took steps to enhance our franchise our product offerings and our profitability.
We re-entered the credit card business by acquiring a $725 million Key-branded credit card portfolio made up of our own clients and by beginning to self-issue cards.
The acquisition provides us with an opportunity to solidify our payments platform while realizing attractive financial benefits.
To strengthen our share of 2 attractive markets in Western New York we acquired 37 branches in Buffalo and Rochester from which we expect to grow current customer relationships and build new ones.
Our underlying credit quality continues to improve and in this quarter we did make provisions to account for our acquisitions and to meet updated regulatory guidance.
Jeff will cover these items in his remarks.
The final few items on this slide highlight our continuing commitment to disciplined capital management.
In addition to leveraging our strong capital position through recent acquisitions we have continued to return capital to our shareholders by repurchasing common stock and through dividends.
Turning to Slide 4.
I'm sure everyone on the call today is aware of the challenges facing our industry.
We have endured a protracted period of slow economic growth and historically low interest rates and we believe these conditions are likely to continue.
That said we have taken steps to position Key for growth and improve profitability.
We are focused on revenue growth improving efficiency and disciplined capital management.
Our results this quarter are evidence of our progress.
First we are increasing revenue.
Organically our relationship model is generating results from new customers and expanding relationships with existing clients who are using more of our services.
We are seeing our lending businesses grow and our market share expand.
And as I mentioned we continue to invest in our businesses.
This quarter included our branch acquisition and reentering the credit card business.
Both provide new revenue streams and opportunities to grow our client base.
In addition we are able to deploy the additional balance sheet liquidity from our branch acquisition into higher yielding credit card assets and into the redemption of the trust preferred securities.
Next we believe one of our most effective levers comes from lowering our expense base and creating a more variable cost structure on the one hand and delivering a high-quality client experience on the other.
As we said earlier we made progress this quarter on our efficiency initiative and we remain focused on reaching our efficiency ratio target of 60% to 65% all this while remaining committed to our relationship model.
Finally we see our capital position as a competitive advantage.
How we manage our capital will continue to be one of the most important decisions we make for this franchise over the next several years.
Overall our third quarter results were another step forward for our company as we continue to make progress on our targets for success.
Now let me turn our call over to Jeff for some further comments on our results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's third quarter 2012 results from continuing operations.
As we reported this morning the company earned a net profit from continuing operations of $0.23 per common share for the third quarter compared to $0.23 for the second quarter of this year and $0.24 for the third quarter of 2011.
There were a number of moving parts this quarter that Beth touched on in her remarks that impacted our results.
First we completed the acquisition of the branches in Western New York.
Second we redeemed $707 million of trust preferred securities.
Third we reacquired our Key-branded credit card portfolio.
Fourth we terminated 2 additional leverage leases.
And fifth we implemented new regulatory guidance on how we were handling certain credits involved in Chapter 7 bankruptcies.
I'll cover how these events impacted our results in more detail in the following slides.
Turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans for the third quarter were up $1 249 000 000 or 2.5% unannualized compared to the second quarter of this year.
Included in this amount was the impact of the loans acquired with the Western New York branches of $223 million and our Key-branded credit card portfolio of $473 million.
In addition to the acquired loans we also continued to experience growth in our C&amp;I and home equity loans.
Our period-ending loan balances were higher than average loan balances by $724 million which should bode well for growth in our fourth quarter average total loan balances.
And our exit portfolio declined $375 million during the third quarter.
The reduction in the exit portfolio was both from normal amortization and the early termination of leverage leases.
On a period-end basis our exit portfolios from continuing operations represented less than 6% of total loans at September 30 2012.
Continuing to Slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet our trend of improving deposit mix continued into the third quarter where we experienced an increase in average balances of non-time deposits of approximately $2.6 billion or 5.2% unannualized.
Contributing to this increase was the addition of $1.6 billion of mostly consumer deposits associated with our acquisition of branches in Western New York.
You can also see here where the deposit funding costs have significantly declined over the past year.
This along with debt maturities and the redemption of trust preferred securities is driving down the cost of interest-bearing liabilities.
As we stated last quarter maturities of higher-costing CDs and debt would benefit the net interest margin in the second half of the current year.
During the fourth quarter we have approximately $540 million of CDs at an average cost of 4.9% maturity.
These maturities along with getting the full benefit of our third quarter maturities will continue to lower our funding costs in the fourth quarter and help offset pressure on the asset yields in this low-rate environment.
Turning to Slide 9.
For the third quarter of 2012 the company's net interest margin was 3.23% compared to 3.06% for the second quarter a 17 basis point expansion.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $578 million for the third quarter up 6.3% from the $544 million we've reported in the second quarter primarily as a result of improvement in funding cost and earning asset mix.
We also had 2 leverage leases terminate during the quarter which negatively impacted net interest income and the net interest margin for the third quarter by $13 million and 7 basis points respectively.
This was the same impact we experienced last quarter in the second quarter on net interest income and the net interest margin.
On deposit front we realized $5 million of accretion associated with our credit card purchase which added approximately 3 basis points to the margin.
Based on continued improvement in our funding costs a change in asset mix driven by higher loan balances and lower investment security balances and excluding any potential impact from early termination of leverage leases we anticipate the net interest margin for the fourth quarter to be in the low 3.30% area.
On the noninterest income front fee income was positively impacted from a $39 million of gains we realized on the early termination of certain leverage leases.
This was $26 million net of the impact to the net interest margin.
As well we also incurred a -- or experienced a $54 million gain from the redemption of trust preferred securities during the quarter.
Gains on loan sales continued to be strong driven by commercial mortgage origination activity in our Real Estate Capital line of business and our pipeline in this business remains solid headed into the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 10.
Noninterest expense for the third quarter of 2012 remained well-controlled at $734 million up $20 million from the second quarter.
Included in our expense for the third quarter was approximately $16 million in costs related to our acquisition of branches in Western New York including $8 million of merger integration costs and $2 million of amortization of intangibles.
In addition expenses associated with our credit card portfolio acquisition were $10 million and included amortization of the purchase credit card receivable premium of approximately $6 million.
As we announced last quarter we are targeting $150 million to $200 million of expense reductions by the end of next year.
We are making progress with implementing initiatives including closing certain branches consolidating operations and adjusting staff levels to meet customer demand.
We remain on track to deliver approximately $30 million to $50 million of our targeted savings by the end of this year with efforts continuing throughout 2013.
We will also continue making investments for future growth.
Our efforts are not all about cost-cutting but they are about improving profitability and ensuring we meet the ever-changing regulatory demands facing our industry and Key.
Turning to Slide 11.
Credit quality metrics and provision for the third quarter were impacted by a number of items.
Net charge-offs for the third quarter were $109 million or 86 basis points of average loans.
Included in this were $45 million of additional charge-offs we recognized as a result of updated regulatory guidance related to consumer loans discharged through bankruptcy.
This $45 million represented approximately 35 basis points of net charge-offs to average loans for the quarter.
In addition the change in guidance also resulted in adding $38 million to our nonperforming loan totals at September 30 2012.
Going forward we do not expect this change in recognition to have a meaningful impact on our net charge-offs or nonperforming loan additions.
During the third quarter we also incurred provision expense of $32 million associated with our credit card portfolio and branch acquisitions and established an allowance for loan and lease losses of $29 million at September 30 2012 associated with these particular portfolios.
We expect provision expense for these portfolios will be significantly less in the fourth quarter.
At September 30 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.73% of period-end loans and 136% coverage of nonperforming loans.
On Page 19 in the appendix we provide our long-term trend of past due and criticized loans both of which continued to show improvement through September 30 of this year.
We remain on track with our asset quality trends of achieving our long-term targeted goal for net charge-offs in the 40 to 50 basis point range of average loans.
And finally turning to Slide 12.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at September 30 2012 at 10.4% and 11.4% respectively.
We have also updated our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common ratio as of September 30 2012 based on the Fed's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on a fully implemented basis at 10.5%.
And during the third quarter we repurchased 9.6 million of our common shares at an average cost of $8.36 per share and we will continue to execute on our share repurchase authorization during the fourth quarter of this year.
That concludes our remarks and now we will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start -- this morning Huntington in their earnings release they said they saw a broad-based change in customer sentiment late in the quarter talking about uncertainty over the economy issues like the fiscal cliff.
Are you guys seeing this shift in your customers as well? And do you expect this to impact growth over the near-term? Sure Steve.
It's Chris Gorman here.
We are.
I was just out with our leasing folks which I think is a pretty good forward look and clearly we have seen a slowdown in terms of for example equipment purchases.
I think the fiscal cliff the election I think all these things play into it but right now we have -- backlogs are strong but I do think there is a fair amount of hesitancy out there in the marketplace in the business community.
And I -- this is Bill Koehler sorry Steve.
I would agree that as we look at middle market and even in our business banking smaller businesses we would see the same amount of cautiousness I guess as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just a follow-up.
Following the news of QE3 and were seeing MBS yields come down we're seeing quite a few banks get even more aggressive on deposit repricing.
We're seeing money market products that we thought where floors go even further.
As you guys look at your deposit repricing strategy are you putting even more aggressive reductions in there right particularly as all these high-cost CDs roll off? Steve this is Bill again.
We have not been any more aggressive.
We believe our relationship strategy helps us attract good customers at deposit levels at pricing levels that make sense and we have maintained a very consistent pricing strategy in the market.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple quick ones for you.
Just as you guys look to continue to improve the payments platform I know you brought in the Key-branded customers the $725 million of receivables.
I'm just kind of curious what kind of revenue opportunities do you see and potential for growth in that portfolio that you might have going forward if you could give some color on that? This is Bill again.
Thanks for the question.
We feel very good about our credit card acquisition because it broadens our product offering in a way that is very consistent with the way clients are choosing to behave in the market and we can also fold it into our relationship awards platform.
So whereas prior to the acquisition we had a debit card strategy and that was impacted by Durbin here we can offer a more -- a broader product offering that give our clients more choices and early days everything is moving according to plan.
And Steve I would just add that as Jeff mentioned in his comments that it did create a more favorable asset mix on our balance sheet as well as strong economics from the use of those credit cards.
This was part of our Durbin mitigation strategy.
And when you couple that with the realignment and the more efficient platforms we have done underneath on the cost structure this is a big step forward for us as we replace some of the impacts of the governmental price controls.
Research Division</strong> Definitely and so we should expect that and those balances to keep growing as we look ahead then right? We're early days -- this is Bill again early days.
We are pleased with the results we are seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then just my last question just in terms of some of the franchise improvement and optimization that you guys referenced in the beginning of the call Im just kind of curious in terms of the timing of maybe some of the pruning of some areas or like you said consolidating or optimizing some of these things.
What's kind of the pace that we should expect as we look ahead? Steve this is Beth.
We will keep you updated as we go through.
We did indicate that we have made progress on what we had targeted of $30 million to $50 million of our total goal this year and I think we announced that we have closed 16 branches in the third quarter and we have another 3 scheduled for closure in the fourth quarter.
We have consolidated some of our back rooms.
We have worked to reduce our staffing levels and we've continued to look at our procurement and vendor relationship.
So as we go into the end of the year we feel good about the $30 million to $50 million that will be coming through in our 2013 run rate and have plans and implementation strategies in line of sight to be $150 million to $200 million by the end of 2013.
Steve this is Jeff Weeden.
Just to give you a little bit more in terms of some proof points on it also.
If you remember last quarter we talked about some of the things that we had entered into and specifically in our Real Estate Capital line of business.
You can see that starting to really show up if you look at the line of business reporting and it's on Page 28 of the earnings release this morning.
You'll see that FTE count is down in that particular area and deposits are up.
So we said it was a combination of what we were also going to be able to do on the cost side but also looking at what we had to do on the revenue side.
So it's a combination.
When we talk about it it's just not about costs.
It's also about revenue enhancements and improvement and improving the overall profitability.
So the numbers are coming through in various lines of business and we're making reinvestments also just as we talked about in card or the branches in Western New York.
And we'll take our next question from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth I wanted to ask.
You had mentioned that one of the most strategic kind of paths which given the excess capital that you have is the deployment of your -- of that excess capital.
Can you give us some prioritization in the sense of how you really want to take that capital and put it to work? And also give us kind of a third dimension of time and a sense of how fast do you want to get it back and/or will you hold some back for some strategic use down the road? Marty thank you.
We have talked about our capital priorities and said that obviously our level of capital we believe is a competitive strength in the coming years.
And as we've talked about our priorities clearly our first 2 priorities -- our first priority is to support our own organic growth of our business model and you have heard in this quarter we utilized some of our capital for the purpose of branch acquisition and the credit card portfolio.
From there we prioritized dividends and second from there would be the repurchase of our shares underneath the CCAR process at these attractive rates that our stock is trading in the market.
And as you correctly pointed out that fourth you would always retain some level of capital to create flexibility for strategic opportunities to enhance the franchise and grow the business over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one more question about this credit card acquisition.
We're seeing this happen more often within the kind of superregional bank group where in the past we had so much loan growth.
We were crowding out some of our assets.
Now that we have all the deposit funding we're kind of looking back and pulling some of those assets back on the balance sheet.
But if you also look at in a sense of the debit card pressure that we have for the regulatory change and then on the flip side you have the HELOC product that's under so much capital pressure.
Do those things just kind of push us right back into this credit card business? And then lastly how about the operations of bringing the portfolio back on the balance sheet? Is there any challenges there? Marty I'll take a first pass at that and then I'll let Bill or Jeff add if they have some additional thoughts.
But in terms of bringing the credit card balances back on one of the big drivers I think for all the regional banks has also been the ability in the cost infrastructure to actually service those cards is dramatically different than it was 10 years ago when many of us exited the business.
And it fits more fully with relationship strategies versus the days when it was more of a mono-line product.
So we see it as attractive client relationship honing that client experience as well as attractive client economics.
So we view it as a good augment to our payment platform as well as our client experience and have plenty of room within our balance sheet for good relationship loans to include equity and card.
I don't think we have any further comments.
And we'll go next to Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question I just wanted to make sure I understood your guidance correctly for expenses.
If we run rate the $734 million that we saw this quarter I get $2.9 billion and then I take off the one -- the midpoint of your guidance and I get to 2.76 run rate for next year.
Can you -- is that a the right way to think it? And b could you keep it that flat and to that level? In other words is the expense program or the expense savings that you mentioned net of any sort of core investments that you'll make into next year? So this is Jeff Weeden.
We're going to continue to make investments and I think we talked about that earlier and I made that in my prepared remarks too is that we will continue in this path down this path.
There's a lot of things that we have to -- all of us do in the banking industry to meet all the due updated regulatory requirements.
And as we're going through and improving the overall efficiency and effectiveness we're continuing also to invest in our businesses and so I think you're seeing top line revenue growth also is what we're driving for.
So we're targeting a 65 -- a 60% to 65% efficiency ratio.
That's one of our targeted items.
Now to get there we have to have expense reduction and also revenue growth.
And one of the things that we are keenly focused on is reducing costs where we can reduce costs.
So we haven't given a specific target for the absolute run rate of expenses for 2013 at this particular juncture.
What we have talked about is reducing our costs from where we were.
You have to add in which is why we tried to show some of the waterfall effect here when we talk about it add in what we're making reinvestments on and what those reinvestments are for going forward.
Erika Jeff referenced the waterfall and that is on Page 10 of our slide deck and I think it will help you understand some of the dynamics of the $734 million for this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes and on just -- on the -- I appreciate the guidance that you gave for the fourth quarter on the margin.
Looking at the average the balance sheet I appreciate the commentary on deposit costs but it still looks like there could be some wood to chop on the wholesale funding side.
I guess could you give us a sense of what the opportunities could be in terms of either the maturities of debt or maybe calling some debt to help support the margin into 2013? Okay so this is Jeff Weeden.
What we have provided guidance on again was for the fourth quarter.
We'll update our guidance for 2013.
We continue to have maturities of CDs.
Here we talked about the $540 million in the fourth quarter.
We'll have additional maturities in 2013 but they go down dramatically.
So while we've been running close to the -- we had $1 billion in the third quarter.
Weve had $500 million here in the fourth quarter.
They start to drop into the $200 million to $250 million per quarter going forward.
So the entire 2013 time period basically the higher-costing CDs are about $1 billion left [ph].
I think when we look at our debt we have additional debt maturities next year but they're not that significant at this particular point in time.
And in 2013 we have $750 million that matures in the May time period next year.
So there's not a lot of additional debt maturities and I think the other thing that we're constantly looking at is what do we need to have for a level of debt that's outstanding also to support just long-term liquidity of the balance sheet.
So these are all the different things that we're looking at.
We'll provide additional guidance as we get into next year.
We think we're well-positioned at this point in time.
The credit card portfolio is only on for a partial quarter at the -- in the third quarter.
We'll have the full quarter benefit of it.
You'll see that in the average balances for what we talked about.
I think it's about $773 million over the average -- or the ending balances.
If you look at the average balances they were basically in that $470 million range so significantly different.
We'll get about $300 million pickup there in terms of balances at a much higher yield.
And we'll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> The card acquisition and branch acquisition that must have added to expenses in excess of the one-time charge what was that number? Okay.
So what we have on an ongoing basis if you -- on Slide 10 in our deck we tried to point this out.
So the $16 million that we incurred in the branch acquisition Mike of that we had $8 million of one-time expense and we also had $2 million of amortization of the core deposit intangible that was embedded in that.
So about $6 million were the ongoing costs.
If you look at the card portfolio...
Research Division</strong> Before you leave the branches so another -- just the cost of running branches goes up $6 million due to the acquisition? Cost of -- roughly yes.
Research Division</strong> In other words other than the one-time the permanent step-up in expenses due to the branch acquisition would be $6 million? Approximately yes.
And then if you look at the card portfolio we have the ongoing costs associated with the processing of the cards and we also have embedded in that are the purchased credit card receivable amortization.
In the third quarter that number was $6 million and it will increase in the fourth quarter as we have an entire quarter.
So it will go up approximately $2 million.
So on a quarterly basis the $6 million will go to approximately $8 million going forward and then we have just our normal processing costs that go along with that particular card portfolio in addition to other services.
Research Division</strong> So all I'm trying to get to is if you hadn't done these acquisitions how much would your expenses have gone up? If we hadn't done these acquisitions compared to the prior quarter expenses would have been down.
Research Division</strong> Down how much? Approximately $6 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So core expenses then are down $6 million and doing the same logic if you hadn't done either of these acquisitions what would have happened to the margin? Well its very dynamic Mike.
I think as you look at it we use the deposit funding here to really offset the maturities that we had in terms of the $707 million worth of trust preferreds.
We also had additional debt maturities of about $650 million during the third quarter that were outside of the calls and then on top of that the investments of -- in terms of the card portfolio.
So it was really used to help fund that particular investment along with just lower levels of investment securities.
So the balance sheet changed on the asset side as well as the liability side.
Research Division</strong> However you want to look at it but the margin was up 17 basis points.
If you hadn't done these deals in your estimate it would have been up 10 5 flat down? Well our -- in our analysis that we talked about it probably would have been up about 10 basis points without the -- without it...
Research Division</strong> And the loan -- okay and the loan growth what would loan growth have been without these acquisitions? Loan growth we still would have had very strong loan growth on the C&amp;I book and so we've really given the breakout of the overall loan growth without it.
I think we were up about 1.1% excluding the acquisitions but that's because a lot of this -- that's on an average balance basis Mike.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And NII if you hadn't done the deals? Net interest income if we hadn't done the deals I guess I don't have that number right off the top of my head Mike.
We'll have to do the math on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's -- my big question is I recall -- or maybe if you can just talk about the history of KeyCorp in the credit card business because you have to appreciate over the last 2 decades KeyCorp has expanded its product line many times only to contract.
I recall 1997 KeyCorp sold off some credit cards and what I just don't understand is how KeyCorp has the capabilities and the portfolio to compete with the likes of a J.P.
Morgan American Express and Capital One and others that have made huge investments in brand loyalty and partnership.
So KeyCorp getting back in the credit card business I'm sorry it's a little bit dj vu and I'm just wondering if that makes sense.
Clearly you've thought about this long and hard and what can you say to reassure those of us who've been around for a while and seen a few of these cycles? Mike this is Beth.
I'll go ahead and take that.
I do think the credit card industry and the ability for regional banks to compete in the credit cards space as a relationship product is very different than it was 10 years ago.
I made reference to that in an earlier answer that I provided.
We look at to this as an augment to our relationship strategy.
This product offering will be embedded in our relationship rewards which is our primary account offering right now for our mass affluent client base and the underlying cost structure as Jeff said we can outsource the processing of that.
So it's a volume variable expense for us so that we have created a nice profitable spread by reentering.
So this is not a business line that we intend to re-embark as a growth strategy for client acquisition or a lead product.
We see it as a complement to our existing portfolios.
Many other regional banks have also gone back into this and we can own and control the client experiences.
We've offered cards but through a white label relationship.
So this client base also has as we -- on August 1 when we announced this transaction had substantial deposits and investments with us and loans.
So this is a well-seasoned and mature set of clients that we acquired.
Research Division</strong> And then last follow-up.
I ran over to our credit card analyst and I said what you were doing.
And he said that the key to the credit card business today is what makes them sticky -- the most sticky is the rewards that you offer as opposed to the issuer as opposed to being KeyCorp the offer you present to them.
So how is your credit card offer going to be strong enough to be sticky so that the other credit card players with enormous scale don't pull them away? I'm going to let Bill Koehler augment that.
But as I said we are embedding this into our Relationship Rewards program that we have with our client base.
We have already got a very strong relationship rewards.
And a year ago when Durbin was enacted one of the things Key did that was differentiating in the market space was we reaffirmed and relaunched our rewards and this was a product gap.
And we obviously as we looked at our Durbin mitigation strategies reacquiring that card portfolio putting it in our existing relationship reward product to make it more robust get the attractive client economics the attractive usage economics as well as being able to process it on a variable cost basis was a significant part of our strategy to mitigate Durbin.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The C&amp;I growth was quite strong this quarter and frankly we're seeing slowdowns for most other banks and I'm just wondering what is driving that.
You mentioned some of your real estate lines of business within the broader C&amp;I bucket but maybe a little more detail in terms of what's driving that.
Is it chunky? Is it broad-based? And then I think you had said the pipeline at the end of the quarter looked pretty good.
So a little more flavor going forward as well please? Well Matt it's Chris.
I think what's driving it is our strategy enables us to really take share.
For example in the corporate bank in terms of new clients of this year we have 450 new clients that have generated around $63 million or so of revenue.
And so while there are some challenges in the marketplace and I think there's a lot of concerns out there we do see ourselves continuing to take share.
The other thing that I would remind you of of course is that our business model -- 54% of our revenues are noninterest income.
So that gives us we think a lever that's a little differentiated from some of our competitors as well.
And I would add -- Matt this is Bill.
I would add on the smaller end what we've seen throughout the year is a general trend of smaller companies getting stronger and having an opportunity to strengthen their balance sheet strengthen their business and although it's smaller dollars in terms of its impact on the whole we have seen our loan volumes in business banking migrate up and our pipelines remain consistent as a result.
And Matt this is Bill Hartmann just maybe to add a little bit to what Chris and Bill have said.
We've actually seen pretty good growth across the geographies and across our major segments of business.
This is the result of a lot of effort that went into identifying who the customers were that we wanted to do business with and then decking bankers against those clients and understanding what our appetite for risk was and then just going out and executing.
So it's a concerted strategy against the defined customer base.
Research Division</strong> And was there anything in particular that happened this quarter where again it just seems like you had an acceleration of growth versus deceleration for others? And sometimes these initiatives and efforts take a while to bear fruit but they just kind of all come together at once? Or there's always some puts and takes and this quarter it kind of all went in the same direction? So Matt its Chris again.
There's always -- it's always a little bit lumpy.
Here in the corporate bank we on a quarter-over-quarter basis we were up about 1.9%.
That would compare to say 11% over the last year.
So there was really nothing particular in this quarter that was any huge piece of business.
But what we do see is Bill Hartmann mentioned the notion of being very targeted in certain industries and knowing exactly who we want to do business with.
We've been at this pretty hard for a couple of years now and we are getting our shots with our targeted customers and so that's really whats driving it.
And Matt as we looked at the quarter one of the things we did say in our second quarter call is that we went into the third quarter with solid and strong pipelines and some piece of what we talked about was what was going to be the pull-through rate because it really was based in client and business sentiment.
And so to your question is this episodic or is it the trend I think it was the pull-through of a strong pipeline into the second quarter broad-based geographically from a client base and reflects our targeted relationship strategy.
And as we said we are taking share.
There is a lot of new client acquisition that is on average better credit quality and has more revenue associated with it in many ways than our average loans in our current book.
And we'll go next to Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide us some perspective on capital deployment here? Just looking how high your capital levels are versus peers and regulatory ratios and that's not really that new.
But I'm wondering if you can provide us any perspective on how capital deployment could potentially change into next year or in the future given -- kind of given your conversations with regulators? Craig this is Beth.
As you know we are at the front end of the 2013 CCAR process and really have not yet received the guidance from the Federal Reserve on scenarios they want to use.
And so we like the other banks who can comment on any near-term capital actions it will be subject to our CCAR submission this year.
And clearly we enter that with a strong level of capital and we're pleased this year that we were able to pass through a dividend increase as well as a share repurchase program for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe turning over to reserve balances on a dollar basis it looks like they've stopped falling here.
Your loan growth is positive.
That's one driver.
I'm wondering if there's any regulatory pressure on the other side.
How should we think about reserve-to-loan ratios because it's still the -- on that base it still declined by a little bit but should we expect it to decline further potentially under 15? Well I think what we have to look at is -- this is Jeff Weeden.
Each and every quarter Bill Hartmann's area and the risk management area go through and build up the overarching reserves.
So it's going to be -- it's going to depend upon the credit migration and overall quality the size of the portfolio and it has to be built up in that particular regard.
So we said earlier this year that we expected to see charge-offs continue to come down.
Now in the third quarter here we had the regulatory adjustment that took place that it was an industry-wide event.
That added to our provision and charge-offs about $45 million in the third quarter.
We don't expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.
So our long-term target of 40 to 50 basis points remains intact and we said that provision expense would migrate towards our long-term targeted rate of net charge-offs.
So in terms of reserve I can't tell you it may come down a little bit may go up a little bit.
It's going to depend upon how we build it up each and every quarter.
This is a Bill Hartmann.
Just -- there's obviously been some press out there about specifically I think the OCC who has been talking about the level of reserves.
If you read what they're really saying is they want to make sure that firms are diligent in the way that they document the level of reserves and so we obviously have talked with them about the level of our reserves and we're comfortable that we're showing the right level of reserves.
Research Division</strong> At this point do you think reserves are more relevant relative to NPAs or forward charge-off expectations? It's probably more indicative of forward charge-off expectations.
And of course you always have to have a degree of what might be the embedded losses in the loss confirmation period for the credits that you have on your books today.
If you look in some of the material in the appendix of the slides there's a credit quality trends on Slide 19 and that gives you an indication of where things have been going.
And we'll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
My question is on the CRE loan portfolio.
So that's flattened out this quarter actually showed a little bit of growth quarter-over-quarter.
Could you just comment on some of the trends you're seeing there? And should this -- would you expect this to be the bottom for that portfolio and we could actually see some growth going forward? Sure Bryan it's Chris Gorman.
There's a couple things going on in that portfolio.
First of all we talked earlier today about de-risking and making sure we're doing business with the people that we want to do business with and there is still some planned and thoughtful run-off in that portfolio.
The other thing that's been going on Bryan is our mortgage banking business had been quite robust and obviously that cannibalizes that portfolio to some degree.
Having said all of that we do think it's a bottomed out and we do think it will grow modestly from here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then Jeff typically you give a pre-provision net revenue outlook on where you think you could run near-term.
Last quarter it was $290 million to $330 million.
What would your near-term outlook be as we go forward? Yes Bryan we're really not changing our near-term outlook at this particular point in time.
We're still going through and I think in terms of where that would be it might be again $300 million to $330 million in that particular range.
And we'll go next to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth in regards to your comments about the credit card portfolio is there any way -- or can you point us to a metric that we outsiders can look at to determine the success that you're having with that portfolio or contributing to a higher ROE for this organization? Gerard I think the way we will realize the benefit of the credit card portfolio that will translate into obviously our returns is the revenue we receive from the balances our ability to extend that into our existing client base with our Relationship Rewards the transactional fees that we receive on the interchange as our clients use those coupled with a very like I said variable cost base and a well-performing credit profile given that it is a well-seasoned portfolio.
So it will be generally accretive to our revenue growth as well as help us with client acquisition and broader client experience.
So we see it as a positive to the performance as you look at how we are deploying our balance sheet and building revenue.
Gerard this is Jeff.
Near-term of course we have the amortization of the purchase credit card receivables that's going to be going through.
So that runs through basically on a sum-of-the-months or sum-of-the-years digits basis.
So it's much more front-end loaded.
We have some of the accrete-able income that's coming in.
It was about $5 million in the third quarter.
It will be slightly less than that in the fourth quarter and that part of it burns down relatively quickly.
The amortization will continue on.
So from a net P&amp;L in the very first year or so that we have of this its not what I would call accretive to the overall bottom line because of that.
It's really the long-term view that we have of the portfolio and we've done all of our returns based on that.
And I would -- the other thing I would say this is a Bill Gerard accretive to the client experience that is the important thing to take away here.
LLC Research Division</strong> As outsiders because we hear this -- to the comments made earlier for the folks who have been following KeyCorp for a long time we've heard strategies like this from other banks or could you guys -- some of our big banks have obviously the big credit card businesses and they break it out separately so you can really look at how successful they are.
Any chance that you guys would break the credit card business out separately? Or is that just going to be engrained into the different banking lines and we won't to be able to see it? Gerard this is Jeff.
It's going to be embedded into the various banking lines.
What we're talking about starting off here is a portfolio of about $0.75 billion.
We will grow that portfolio over time but that is probably not a "significant standalone line of business" for us.
We also have our enterprise commercial payments and that was part of our announcement too in July.
So we talked about what we're doing on the merchant side of the business and these are in -- and across the entire payment stream.
So we are investing in payments within our company.
But as far as breaking this one specific area out that's probably not going to happen.
We do break out on the margin analysis.
You'll be able to see that.
We'll break out additional line items going forward with respect to the fee revenue that comes from it and so you could construct some type of a P&amp;L from probably our publicly available disclosures on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And have you guys given us -- and I apologize if you already did it on the call what the targets are for the size of this portfolio in 12 months and 24 months out? No we have not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on the capital side of the balance sheet you guys have a very strong Tier 1 common ratio obviously under Basel III.
Assuming that the regulations when they -- we get the final numbers in the spring of next year hopefully that 7% Tier 1 common ratio is the number everybody has to manage to plus a SIFI buffer and if we assume for a moment your SIFI buffer will be 50 basis points on top of that.
So I'm assuming you're going to be required to carry 7.5% Tier 1 common and you're obviously well above that.
What level are you comfortable with in carrying if those are the rules 7.5% is your bogey? And then second how -- once you give us that number of your comfort level how quickly would you move to bring that number down to that comfort level? Gerard I think in terms of overall capital levels it's something that we have discussions with our board on as to what that level ultimately will end up being until we see the final rules and the NPR is just out at this point in time.
It's still in the comment period.
I know it's supposed to end here I think next week.
So we'll see where we ultimately end up with.
Clearly we have more Tier 1 common than we believe that is necessary and that we would like to deploy that.
However it's a deployment that takes place between the board management and the regulators as to how that will be ultimately repatriated into the future or utilized.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> On your about $17 billion securities portfolio what's sort of the plan for that? It seems to be continuing to run off.
I know a lot of the proceeds are being used to repay TruPS and CDs.
And then also what are the reinvestment rates? And what's the -- remind me what the duration on that is.
Okay.
Well this is Jeff Weeden.
The portfolio at the end of the quarter was actually between the available-for-sale and the held-to-maturity portfolios were down to about $16.1 billion.
And so we're getting close to kind of the floor level of maintaining a portfolio of right around that particular size just for overall liquidity management as we've talked about pledging et cetera what we will use that portfolio for.
In terms of the duration it's around I believe 2.1 2.2 years at this particular point in time.
We've provided a disclosure for it.
I guess I could go directly to that particular slide which is Slide 15.
2.3 years is the average life.
And in terms of what reinvestment rates are and what rates are going off at.
So the overall yield on the portfolio combined is about 2.78%.
I think if you look at what comes off currently it's fair to say it's coming off at around 3% and new reinvestment yields at this particular point in time on the product that we structure in the marketplace is about 1.4% to 1.5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then just to follow up on expenses.
Of the $30 million to $50 million you expect to realize at the end of this year how much have you already booked through the third quarter? We haven't disclosed how much we have booked already through the third quarter.
I think though if you look some of the things that we have changed in terms of our shifting our FTE count around.
So we've actually taken FTEs out of certain areas of the company.
We've consolidated some of our operations.
You can see that if you look at some of the specific line of business information I was pointing to on Page 28 of the press release.
Those items have already taken place and we've continued to work on overall occupancy costs and we are continuing to invest though too in occupancy.
And if you look at the third quarter we added the 37 branches in Western New York.
Those costs are on yet occupancy cost remains relatively stable for us.
So we're taking costs out.
We're making reinvestments.
It's a dynamic process that we're going through.
We'll provide additional information as we get into the fourth quarter earnings call.
And we'll take our last question from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarification questions.
In terms of asset quality and credit costs could you just clarify this quarter you had $109 million of provision but that sounds like it included the $45 million from the change in regulatory reporting requirements and then also some reserve build from the card and branch acquisitions of $32 million.
So if we adjust for those I mean should we think the kind of a more normal kind of core run rate on provision being in the mid-to-low 30s? Am I thinking about that right? In terms of basis points or in terms of dollars? Research Division</strong> Dollars.
Dollars so if you were to look at the third quarter that's how you would have looked at the third quarter.
It would've been in kind of that low-to-mid $30 million range.
That's correct.
And longer-term we've said that it'll migrate closer in terms of basis points now in terms of -- to the 40 to 50 basis point range of charge-offs which is where we're headed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So coming -- but the base should be kind of -- were in that kind of mid-to-low 30s and maybe migrating a little bit higher on a provision ratio basis.
Is that fair? That's where we were for the third quarter.
Again we don't provide that specific type of a guidance with respect to the level of provision because it becomes more problematic as you just look at the overall credit quality trends which are continuing to show improvement and again I don't want to get in front of ourselves until we actually close the fourth quarter on out...
And Slide 11 I think gives some good color and context on that Andrew.
Research Division</strong> Thanks Beth.
And then just lastly on the margin and also obviously the other drivers on pre-pre because the margin obviously is going to hold up for another quarter or so.
But then it becomes maybe tougher in terms of less levers in terms of liability as you've noted next year.
But is it possible given the other initiatives to improve your pre-pre from the kind of low-300s this quarter next year just given still all the headwinds that you and everyone are facing? So we provided guidance for the fourth quarter at this particular point in time.
We'll update that guidance as we get into the January time period when we do our fourth quarter earnings call.
I think it's fair to say that we have -- in heading into the fourth quarter we feel very good about the direction of the overall margin.
So in that 3 -- the low 330 area.
I think as you look further on out and we start talking about all of 2013 '14 if the rate environment stays exactly where it is today assets are going to be pressured.
Liabilities will continue to reprice but there's less levers that we're talking about there.
So I think in terms of longer-term the margins for the industry and for us will be pressured as we go further out the spectrum.
Research Division</strong> And then on pre-pre you had said 300 to 330 was your goal.
Can you remind us what the time frame is for that? That's what we're operating in today.
I mean we are above that for the third quarter but we had the trust preferred gains out there.
That was for the fourth quarter.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today and if you have any follow-on questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Lammers and their number is (216) 689-3133.
And that will conclude our remarks for today.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp 2012 Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Ms.
Mooney please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer; and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler; and also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
On Slide 3 are some highlights of our 2012 results.
Again I'd like to make some general comments about the year more broadly.
I'm very pleased with the measurable progress we made during the year on our strategic and financial goals.
Although the operating environment remains challenging our results reflect our success in executing on our strategies and further refining our relationship-based model.
Some of our key proof points would include revenue which was up 4% from the prior year as loans grew net interest margin improved and fees increased.
Our average C&amp;I loans were up 21% over last year and led our year-over-year loan growth.
Our net interest margin improved in 2012 including a 24 basis point increase in the fourth quarter from the same period a year ago.
And I would point out that our margin improvement and C&amp;I loan growth were among the best in our peer group.
These were also a positive story.
Our commercial real estate mortgage banking group had its best year ever and it was also a record year for KeyBanc Capital Markets with strong fee growth from loan syndications investment banking and debt placement.
On the expense side we achieved $60 million in annualized savings in 2012 a strong start to our expense initiative which exceeded our original goal we had set for the year.
With that momentum we are on track to realize cost savings of $150 million to $200 million on a run rate basis by year-end 2013.
I remain committed along with the rest of my management team to achieving our targeted efficiency ratio of 60% to 65% by 2014.
Expense levels for 2012 reflect our acquisitions as well as upfront cost for our efficiency initiative and for technology including a new trust and risk management system along with the development of new payment and merchant processing capabilities.
We closed 19 underperforming branches last year as part of a plan to rationalize our branch network.
Another 40 to 50 branches are targeted for 2013.
We also launched programs aimed at streamlining our backroom and support operations so we can achieve a more variable and efficient cost space.
Our capital management remains focused on value creation.
To that end in 2012 we returned approximately 50% of our net income to shareholders through both common share repurchases and dividends.
We also used our capital to acquire market share in Western New York and to develop new revenue streams in the credit card and payments businesses.
Turning now to Slide 4.
In 2013 our strategic themes remained the same.
In the coming year we are focused on 5 critical areas consistent with the long-term growth priorities shown on Page 14 of our deck.
Specifically we will continue to leverage our focus and expertise in our targeted client segments to acquire and expand customer relationships.
This is most apparent in our middle market and corporate bank where our mix of distinctive product capabilities with local delivery has us well positioned to take advantage of the business and economic recovery.
Next we will maintain a moderate risk profile.
We have substantially improved our credit quality over the past several years by adhering to a robust set of enterprise-wide risk practices.
Jeff will have more on credit quality in his comments.
Third we will invest in opportunities to accelerate our revenue growth.
In practical terms this means finding ways to leverage our franchise as we did in 2012 when we deepened our retail footprint in Western New York enhanced our payments capabilities with credit card and merchant services and invested in online and mobile banking.
And just a quick comment on that point.
We've been asked about the net impact of our efficiency initiative in the amount of reinvestment of those savings we expect.
What I can commit to you is that we are rigorous on our investment decisions being mindful of the size timing resources and prioritizations that they will take.
And we will make the right trade-offs to ensure we deliver on our efficiency ratio commitments.
However when we see the opportunity to make an investment that is consistent with or additive to our strategy and it has the right return profile we will make that investment.
There's an old saying that you can't shrink yourself to prosperity and we must continue to find ways to generate more customers and more revenues.
We are committed to doing that and doing that in the way that delivers profitable growth.
Fourth we will improve our operating leverage by growing revenue and creating a more efficient cost structure that is aligned with the current operating environment.
As I just said this is a two-sided equation.
We need to be focused and rigorous in both our revenues and our expenses.
And finally we will work closely with our board and our regulators to manage capital to support our client's needs and create shareholder value.
Our capital remains a competitive advantage for us in both the intermediate and long term.
We continue to imbue the environment for our industry in 2013 as challenging.
Nonetheless I'm encouraged by the fact that our employees have never been more focused on delivering outcomes for clients and that in turn is giving us real traction in our market.
Customers are coming to us and staying with us because we are executing on our strategy and delivering a truly distinctive experience.
We had a strong 2012 and one that I am very proud of.
But it's not enough and we all know that.
Along with my team and all of the employees at Key we are focused on sustaining our positive momentum and continuing to drive our performance in 2013 and beyond.
I'm confident that our strategies are working and that we are on the right path forward.
Now let me turn the call over to Jeff with some further comments on our results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's fourth quarter 2012 results from continuing operations.
As we reported this morning the company earned a net profit from continuing operations of $0.21 per common share for the fourth quarter compared to $0.23 for the third quarter of 2012 and $0.21 for the fourth quarter of 2011.
There are a couple of items I will touch on before moving to the more detailed discussion surrounding the quarterly results on the following slides that impact the current quarter.
First the net interest margin expanded to 3.37% an increase from both the third quarter of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011.
Second we incurred cost of $16 million or approximately $0.01 per common share associated with our Fit for Growth efficiency initiative.
Third credit costs decreased to $58 million or 44 basis points of average total loans.
And fourth we had strong revenue results from our commercial businesses in both investment banking and mortgage banking.
Now turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans for the fourth quarter were up $1 164 000 000 or 2.3% unannualized compared to the third quarter of 2012.
And compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 average total loans were up $3.2 billion or 6.6%.
We have continued to have success in growing our commercial loan portfolio from both acquiring new clients as well as expanding existing relationships in our focused industries as demonstrated by the approximate $3.8 billion or 21% increase in C&amp;I loans over the past year.
On the consumer front average loans grew by $312 million aided by the increase in credit card balances which were up $282 million from the prior quarter reflecting the full quarterly impact of the acquired balances from the third quarter 2012 acquisitions.
As we look out at 2013 we anticipate average total loans to grow in the mid- to upper single-digit area continuing to be led by growth in our commercial and industrial loans as we capitalize on our success in our targeted approach to certain industries where we offer a full complement of products services and advice to clients.
Continuing to Slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding foreign branch deposits grew $1.1 billion from the third quarter.
And our trend of improving deposit mix continued with an increase in average balances of non-time deposits of approximately $1.9 billion or 3.6% unannualized.
And our finding cost continued to decline contributing to our stronger net interest margin experienced in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 9.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 the company's net interest margin expanded to 3.37% compared to 3.23% for the third quarter of 2012 and 3.13% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $607 million for the fourth quarter up 5% from the $578 million we reported in the third quarter.
The improvement was a result of a 10 basis point decline in funding costs for interest-bearing liabilities and a 7 basis point improvement in earning asset yields.
Recall from last quarter we had 2 leverage leases terminate during the third quarter which negatively impacted net interest income and the margin by $13 million and 7 basis points.
Aiding the fourth quarter margin were stronger fees and an additional dividend on other investments.
These 2 items benefited the margin by approximately 4 basis points.
Our current expectation assuming a policy of low interest rates by the Federal Reserve continues is for the net interest margin to trend lower from the fourth quarter level throughout 2013.
For the first quarter of 2013 we anticipate the margin to be in the range of 3.30% and for continued modest pressure in the 1 basis point to 3 basis point area per quarter throughout the year.
With respect to average earning assets we expect to see growth tracking in line with our overall loan growth and would not anticipate any material change in the size of our investment securities portfolio.
We remain approximately 1% asset sensitive at December 31 2012 to a gradual 200 basis point rise in interest rates with the forward view that asset sensitivity will increase during the next 12 months given normal funds flows positioning us to benefit if short-term to intermediate-term rates begin to rise.
On the noninterest income front we saw continued solid performance from investment banking and net gains on loan sales driven by higher origination volume from commercial mortgage banking in our Real Estate Capital line of business.
As Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler can comment on later on our pipelines remain good headed into the first quarter.
In total noninterest income was down in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter due to gains realized from the early termination of certain leverage leases and from the redemption of trust preferred securities during the third quarter in the amounts of $39 million and $54 million respectively.
Turning to Slide 10.
Noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2012 increased to $756 million up $22 million from the third quarter.
All of these increase was in the personnel area and relates to higher employee benefits up $11 million; increased severance up $5 million; and higher contract labor for implementing new technology projects currently underway up $8 million.
In total these 3 items were up $24 million in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The increase in employee benefits was due to higher medical claims and an accrual for the annual employee retirement contribution.
We expect employee benefit cost to decrease in the first quarter from the elevated fourth quarter level more than offsetting the normal seasonal increase that we typically experience from higher employment taxes.
Severance and other costs associated with our Fit for Growth efficiency initiative are expected to remain elevated throughout much of 2013.
And technology related costs are expected to remain at the level we experienced in the fourth quarter through the first half of 2013 before starting to decline as we implement new systems for trust accounting risk management information systems Treasury management and card services.
Also included in our expense run rate for the fourth quarter was approximately $30 million in cost related to our acquisition of branches in Western New York and our credit card portfolio.
These costs were up approximately $4 million from the third quarter and of this increase approximately $3 million represented additional intangible amortization expense.
As Beth commented on earlier we remain committed to achieving our targeted efficiency ratio of 60% to 65% through planned cost reductions by 2014.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our net charge-offs declined to $58 million or 44 basis points during the fourth quarter down from the elevated level of the third quarter when we implemented new regulatory guidance for consumer loan Chapter 7 bankruptcies.
The provision for loan losses in the fourth quarter was $57 million.
Both net charge-offs and the provision expense were within our long-term targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points for the fourth quarter.
And for the entire year provision expense represented approximately 45 basis points of average total loans.
Our expectation for charge-offs and provision expense during 2013 is to remain within our long-term targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points.
Also at December 31 2012 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.68% of period-end loans and 132% coverage of nonperforming loans.
And turning to Slide 12.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio remained strong at December 31 2012 at 10.2% and 11.2% respectively.
We have also updated our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio based on the Feds NPR on a fully implemented basis at December 31 2012 to be 10.2%.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 10.5 million shares of common stock at an average cost of $8.37 per share and we have $88 million remaining authority under our current repurchase authorization for the first quarter of 2013.
We also filed our updated CCAR capital plan with the regulators on January 7 of this year and expect to hear back on those findings from the submission at the same time as the rest of the industry during the month of March.
That concludes our remarks and now I'll turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the expenses.
X the severance charges core expenses are running around $740 million.
And if I look at your comments that $60 million of cost saves are now realized out of the $150 million to $200 million.
This would imply a run rate right of somewhere around $705 million to $718 million for expenses with all the cost saves.
Now I know you're saying expenses are going to stay high in the first half of '13.
But as we get towards the last quarter 2013 is that how we should be thinking about expenses sort of $705 million $718 million with some adjustment for growth rate of core expenses? Steve this is Jeff.
I think as we look at how the year plays out is that expenses will trend down in the second half of the year.
We're not giving that specific of a number but I would say in general terms you're thinking of it how we're looking at those overall expense trends.
And I think we do have to factor in what other investments in terms of business opportunities that may exist.
If we see opportunities in the market to add bankers we will add bankers to grow revenue.
So we're really trying to look at it on a net basis too in terms of not just the expenses but also focusing on the revenue side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to follow up on that in terms of the shift on this one slide to the cash efficiency target could you give us some color on that shift? And should we read into that that the timing of getting into the 60% 65% GAAP efficiency ratio range has maybe been extended a bit? Steve I think the cash efficiency ratio of the 60% to 65% just simply excludes the intangible amortization expense that we have.
That was an item that also will decrease over time on the purchase credit card receivable amortization.
Of course it's heavier in the first couple of years and the other core deposit intangible amortization is also heavier in the first couple of years.
That will start to decrease over time.
So what we wanted to get to is what's the efficiency ratio x the intangibles.
I think that's where we're focused on and we know we have to -- 65% is the first step.
Then we have to figure out how we're going to also continue to step down those overall expenses as well as grow revenue to get it down closer to the 60% level.
Our next question comes from Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to kind of follow up on the expense question.
How -- when you think about it and kind of in tandem with the revenue outlook I mean do you guys think you'll be able to generate positive operating leverage in 2013? Kind of where does that ultimately fit into sort of your priorities? And then I had a second question unrelated.
If you could just provide a little more color on the revaluation of the home equity guidance just so if you can talk a little bit more about kind of what drove it and sort of where the charge-offs flushed out to? Okay.
So as we look at again I think in terms of positive operating leverage that is our mission is to grow revenues faster than expenses.
That is our outlook as we look at 2013 and beyond.
And I think that's one of the things that we're very focused on as a management team.
And we're getting some of the lift of course not only from a better margin in 2013 than what we had in 2012 but also as we look at overall average earning asset growth now is starting to come into play.
Last year we were very stable in that around $72 billion of average earning assets for the year.
This year our expectation is that average earning assets will trend up with the general overall growth in the loan portfolio.
So from that perspective we feel very positive.
I think if you look at the -- then your second part of your question was on home equity.
In the third quarter we like everybody else that was a national bank had to make some determinations on the level of Chapter 7 bankruptcies and the amount of a charge-off that we would take.
And we work through all of those particular charge-offs in the fourth quarter and actually got down to applying on a loan-by-loan basis across the entire portfolio group.
That's what led to some of the shifting around.
We took a charge to the home equity book in the third quarter.
And as we reapplied on where those charge-offs actually came out in the fourth quarter that resulted in that adjustment that you saw there.
So in total charge-offs related to the home equity book about $10 million less across all portfolios related to that Chapter 7 in the fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the cost-cutting program but you said you're thinking about investments also.
So as you think about the trade-off versus cost cuts versus investing whether it's investing in people or equipment how do you think about the minimum payback period for such an investment? Josh this is Jeff.
As we look at payback periods as one item but as also looking at what's the internal rate of return over time and we want to strive for something that's in the at least the mid- to upper-teens on IRRs related to our investments.
We talk about some of these investments that we're really looking at.
We really look at the technology side of the equation remaining at these elevated levels through the first half of 2013.
So if you go back and look we were up basically from where we were in the second quarter.
That investment went up about $10 million.
It was up $2 million in the third quarter.
It ramped up an additional $8 million in the fourth quarter.
We expect it to remain at that level for the next couple of quarters as we deliver now some of our systems.
And those systems then will help us also make some moves that we have with outside parties currently to bring those on to our own platforms and reduce cost elsewhere.
So those are very positive on the payback time periods.
Certain other investments you have to look at your trust accounting system.
It's an older system.
We're going to a more modern system.
It will give more feature and function to our clients and to our bankers internally so that's a necessary expenditure that we have to make.
And again that will be implemented here in 2013.
Josh this is Beth.
One thing I would also add in addition I mentioned the rigor with which we will make those investments.
And I'd like to share that part of what we developed in our operating rhythm in 2012 with the [ph] project management office that that's the business cases and make sure that we're clear about the resources the staging the timing and the prioritization we give.
And then rigorously also tracks the business value realization.
So as Jeff talked about some of the metrics with which we would evaluate the return profile that we also clearly track that we're realizing the benefit.
And Josh it's Christopher Gorman.
The other area where we've invested and invested successfully is in people.
We think we have a unique business model focused on these targeted middle market companies.
And if you look at the 82 people that we brought on that were kind of senior level calling people from the beginning of 2010 until present that has been a good investment.
We also invested in 2010 in mortgage banking personnel and we're seeing the fruits of that as well.
So that's another element of the investment program.
Research Division</strong> And you had strong loan growth in the fourth quarter.
As you look at the first quarter and into the rest of the year do you have a sense that your loans can continue to grow at that rate? Or do you think there might have been some pull forward like other banks mentioned in the fourth quarter? So Josh a couple of things to keep in mind.
One there was some activity late in the fourth quarter but we don't think it was driving or overriding our business.
Clearly there were some tax-driven activity.
With respect to going forward I think Jeff mentioned that we're comfortable kind of mid to high single-digit numbers and as we look at our backlogs as we look at our ability to penetrate new clients we're comfortable with that on a going forward basis.
And I would say -- Josh this is Bill.
As we look at our pipelines in the Community Bank especially in our commercial businesses the pipelines are significantly stronger than they were the same time last year.
Our pull-through in the fourth quarter was good and yet our pipelines are still strong and I would say importantly more balanced regionally.
We'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question -- I'm sorry to continue to focus on expenses but I just wanted to make sure we're thinking about the first half of the year the correct way.
So the GAAP expense number is $756 million and you mentioned that severance expenses would remain elevated near term.
If I back out the amortization expense the credit for lending-related commitments as well as the $16 million in Fit for Growth-related expenses I get to a core run rate of $742 million like Steve said.
So in the first half of the year is it flat to the $756 million GAAP number? Or is it flat to that $742 million GAAP number -- or sorry $742 million core number? I think the way that we are looking at this particular number Erika is that it will be within that kind of that fourth quarter range for the first half of the year and that has the additional technology spend in there as well as severance-related costs and other costs associated with our Fit for Growth initiative.
So could -- it will be within a range of that say $750 million in that particular range for the next couple of quarters.
That's the expectation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just my follow-up question is long term in terms of your efficiency goals.
So if I strip out all the noise and say that your core run rate right now is $742 million and I think about your expense goals if I sort of calculate the midpoint of the 60% to 65% it would imply an additional $460 million of annual revenues or expense cuts to get to the midpoint.
And could you give us a sense in terms of where we could get that $460 million from? Is it because the balance sheet is growing much faster than you think? Or are there additional expense cuts beyond '13 that we should look forward to? Well Erika I think we have to manage expenses.
After we take these particular expenses out of the organization we have to effectively manage the expense base of the company.
But we have to have more revenue.
So I think that's really where we're becoming much more focused all the time in terms of what we are attacking in the marketplace.
Our exit portfolios are getting smaller and smaller all the time so that's less of a drain that we have.
And I think in terms of if once we start to look at the overall core growth and it's not just the loan portfolio because it's really looking at client penetration and getting more of the overall business from those particular clients.
So Chris do you have [ph]...
No I think Jeff you're exactly right.
We've had a fair amount of success in terms of adding relationships.
So for example this year we added 669 new relationships.
So that will set the stage for future growth.
They average about $169 000 or so in revenue.
But to Jeff's point because of our model we're able to really penetrate the relationships that we have.
We talk about expanded relationships.
Those are relationships that we do $100 000 more than we did in the first measurement period of 12/31/11.
In that case we had 425 expanded relationships but in the aggregate generated about $263 million.
So those will be some of the areas getting deeper with these highly focused clients and bringing new clients on to the platform because as we mentioned we think we can leverage the platform.
Erika this is Beth.
I would just add one thing for the Community Bank that as we go through 2013 as Jeff indicated we will burn through some of the amortization related to the credit cards of [ph] HSBC and that will be more -- so the operating leverage of that will come through more fully.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just wanted to make sure I wrapped up on the revenue side.
I mean I got the message in terms of getting to that revenue growth number of around $450 million $460 million.
I guess that would be sort of obviously some NII growth as you have loan growth coming in but also fee growth as you penetrate more deeply into the relationships.
Yes it has to come from both.
It's not just balance sheet-driven.
Particularly in this particular rate environment I think you've got to have both.
You've got to get paid for your balance sheet not only in some form of spread but you also have to have ancillary businesses in today's environment.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now take our next question from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question or my only question is for Beth.
You mentioned the saying that you can't shrink yourself to prosperity.
The question I have though is there's a lot of very highly profitable banks that are much smaller than Key.
I would -- could you just walk us through your thought process on why growing is the only viable solution for Key to become more profitable? Yes Ken this is Beth.
I think what we have articulated is we've spent what I would call the last couple of years as we really repositioned and refocused our company around this core value proposition between our Corporate and our Community Bank where we're clearly built our capabilities distinctively as we've talked about within Corporate Bank with our various vertical strategies our investment banking debt and capital market capabilities mortgage banking capabilities with our local delivery of our Community Bank.
Clearly leverage to a business and economic recovery and I think we have the proof points in 2012 that shows real momentum in returns from that strategy.
I think we have realigned repositioned and hit what I would call the sweet spot capabilities and clients that will provide growth.
So my thinking is that much of the repositioning shedding that we needed to do for a lack of a better term I think has been accomplished.
And now it is our time to continue the momentum you saw in 2012 execute that strategy drive improved performance and valuation.
We'll take our next question from Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my questions have been asked.
I'm wondering about what you're looking for in a tax rate in 2013? Okay.
So on the tax rate on a GAAP basis would be somewhere between 26% and 27% and on a tax equivalent basis would be somewhere about 100 basis points higher than that 27% to 28%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just curious if -- in terms of fee income growth in '13 and probably into '14 as well what do you see as the major drivers? Is it primarily Treasury management investment banking et cetera? Yes I think it will be -- Jennifer it's Chris Gorman.
It'll be across-the-board.
But again our strategy where we target in these 6 verticals in the Corporate Bank enables us to sell a wide variety of advice and solution.
So payments our enterprise commercial payments business that's an important business and it's very very sticky.
We also continue to grow our investment in debt placement fees.
That's another real area of focus.
We also have been raising a lot of capital for these mid-cap companies.
So right now in terms of mix we're about 57% noninterest income the balanced interest income and we don't see that deviating much.
We kind of like that mix 55% 45%.
So it will be across-the-board focused on these very targeted companies.
That makes us for the Corporate Bank.
Overall we're about 43% on the fee revenue.
So I think the Corporate Bank is clearly an important driver of fee revenue for the organization.
And Jennifer this is Bill.
In Community Bank in addition to some of the fee items that Chris talked about we have additional opportunity in -- with some of our new payment capabilities; so the card that we've already talked about.
But also we're seeing momentum in our private banking investment management and trust origination so that our fees generated from investment continue to improve over time.
And we think that is a very interesting opportunity long term and highly complementary to our business model and focus on working with privately-owned companies in the middle market.
Jennifer just to give you one kind of proof point on kind of our mix of fee versus interest income.
Well a great case study would be our Real Estate business that we've completely repositioned.
The actual balance sheet is about half today what it was in the financial crisis.
And as you look at loan origination this year loan origination is up 22% but 57% of that is off balance sheet.
So you can see that we continue to look at that mix and how we can use our balance sheet as a lead 70% or so of the syndicated financed deals we lead but how we can utilize that to really drive some of the fee income streams you were referencing.
We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My main question is how can you be content with an efficiency ratio target of 60% to 65%? I guess it was 69% in the fourth quarter and I suppose 68% or so for the year.
So it's certainly an improvement.
But when I look back over time with all the efficiency initiatives KeyCorp has had and some of this predates you Beth but you have Fit for Growth now.
You finished Keyvolution Resource 2000 PEG.
When I look all the way back to 1994 your efficiency ratio was 58%.
And after 2 decades of all these programs and all the technological advances and all the hopes for economies of scale you're now targeting an efficiency ratio that's above what you had 2 decades ago.
So should you be content with the ratio of 60% to 65%? Yes Mike.
This is Beth and I'll go ahead and just reiterate obviously our commitment with Fit for Growth which is to reduce our expenses by $150 million to $200 million and also to use those to drive revenue in addition to our efficiency plans that get us to that 60% to 65% by 2014.
So in addition to the business mix which we are driving enhanced performance I believe through that mix of business and those differentiated capabilities we're also incurring costs that include regulatory and compliance.
We have some costs related to investments that are still early in the days of their return.
The examples in 2012 would be Western New York credit card.
Jeff mentioned and I mentioned technology as an enabler of our business and investments in that regard.
But I couple those in the context of the improvement in our business performance that is evident in 2012: loan growth fees growth in deposits but awfully a significantly different mix and cost of those deposits.
We've had meaningful improvements in our operating results of our Corporate Bank and we've got many initiatives aimed at improving the performance of our Community Bank perhaps most notably kind of the headline would be around rationalizing some of our branch networks.
So I think we've been are and will be diligent in considering every meaningful idea.
Nothing is off the table and we are working a portfolio of ideas that fit our strategy and are designed to improve our performance both in the immediate near term as well as over the long term and we've got a nice mix of ideas in that regard.
So I believe we're executing a very sound plan.
It will improve our performance and enhance our valuations.
Research Division</strong> If I could just have one follow up and that was helpful.
On the one hand Beth you said you're -- or KeyCorp is done shedding assets.
And on the other hand you said nothing is off the table.
So given underperformance again that predates you and efficiency ratios versus the best-in-class players 52% versus your target of even 60% to 65% why not have an independent board committee reassess the strategy to create more shareholder value such as by optimizing the geographic footprint? And the reason I asked that is in my mind having covered the company for 2 decades again obviously predating when you got to the company Beth but it seems to be so spread out from Maine to Washington to Florida to Alaska that maybe that's the root cause for not being as optimized as say a U.S.
Bancorp or several other banks large and small.
So would you consider having an independent board committee take a look at how to create more shareholder value such as by optimizing the geographic footprint since you said nothing is off the table? Yes Mike.
I think it's clear that Key has a very experienced Board of Independent Directors and they regularly evaluate our strategies our position in the industry and our markets.
They look at our plans our performance and balance that we're doing the right things for our constituencies and that our plan will drive value for our shareholders.
So we believe there's tremendous value in our company and our job as a management team is to execute on those plans and strategies that we believe will be successful for us.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Research Division</strong> I guess loan sales you mentioned the leverage to the improvement in commercial real estate.
Is that a line item you can continue to grow from here? Or how should we think about the near-term outlook for loan sales revenue? Sure.
It's Chris Gorman Brian.
We have a solid pipeline.
Our pipeline is frankly every bit as big as it was going into this year.
If you look at kind of the line items that go through there which are basically mortgage banking to Fannie Freddie FHA and the life companies we're up from say $1 billion in 2010 to just call it $3.9 billion this year.
We think it's -- we don't think we can continue probably on that trajectory.
But as we look at our pipelines our pipelines are actually greater today than they were a year ago.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] business segment and as we know that's an increasingly competitive segment.
Could you just speak to your results in small business? And whether small business customers are sort of demanding things that are different than what they wanted in the past? Nancy this is Beth.
I apologize but the very early -- probably about half your question did not come through.
Can we ask you to repeat your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I just said that KeyCorp has always been recognized as a good small business bank.
And if you could just speak to your results in small business since that segment is becoming increasingly competitive and whether -- what the demands of small business are now that perhaps are different than they have been historically? Nancy this is Bill Koehler.
A couple of comments.
In the past year or so we have seen the tone of small business improve.
People are beginning to invest more and we've been able to serve them in 2 ways through providing loans and deposits and other operating capabilities as you normally would.
But also by using our SBA capabilities and we have leveraged them very effectively to support a wide range of small businesses in our footprint to the point where we're even acknowledged by the SBA in May I believe or June for -- as a leading SBA lender to middle-market companies in the country.
So we feel very good about where our clients and prospects are in terms of wanting to build their businesses and invest in them.
They're still a little cautious but they're stronger.
And we have proven an ability to continue to serve them.
We see opportunity ahead.
Chris mentioned payments as an opportunity to further penetrate our clients add more value and generate more revenue over time.
But we feel good about the progress we're making.
And Nancy this is Beth.
I would add that one of the things as we track various levels in business volume and pipeline this particular market segment has been perhaps the slowest to regain confidence and really start borrowing and lending again.
And we noted what I would call the inflection point in the fourth quarter of 2011.
But as we close out 2012 there's been a notable increase in pipelines in new business volume and business banking coupled with some behavior that's similar to middle-market clients while retaining more cash.
And we have really also worked to make sure not only we have the business capabilities that we'd also connect those business owners to our private bank to help them maximize and optimize both their business assets of their personal assets.
We'll now take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet from Matt's team.
I was just curious how meaningful could fee revenue opportunities be from the recent deals and investments you guys made in credit card and payment areas? I guess -- this is Bill Rob.
We feel very good about the progress we are making in both cases.
In credit card we are growing our accounts at a faster rate than planned.
We're seeing improvement in fees -- or I should say dollars transacted per -- dollars per transaction.
So we're seeing a lot of evidence that our integration process is working well.
We think we can grow that nicely over time.
And in the case of HSBC within that franchise we're seeing similar positive dynamics.
Retention rates of those clients have been better than planned.
Employee retention is better than planned.
So we see some momentum building and we think we can continue to grow it.
And Rob this is Beth.
I would give you kind of a particular metric that I look at when I think about it specifically about the income opportunity.
Not having been a credit card issuer our platform would have been more debit card-focused: freebies [indiscernible] and obviously in a different environment before Durbin.
And we have 70% penetration in our checking account of debit cards.
Now granted people use debit cards in a variety of ways and a variety of reasons but bringing back in credit card and becoming a credit card issuer our penetration on credit card currently is only 12%.
So if you think about the opportunity to align that with our relationship rewards and all our core product capabilities and create more choice of how people exercise payment capabilities between debit card and credit card both for transactional needs as well as revolving credit.
There is a significant fee opportunity that will come from that both through growth but also through just penetration with our own client base.
And Rob one other thought.
We just spoke about the revenue side here.
As part of our integration plans there are opportunities to improve our infrastructure costs as well which end up flowing through to the bottom line.
And we'll take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth can you share with us when you guys look at your capital clearly it would appear to most of us that you're very well capitalized especially when you look at the Tier 1 common ratio and the Basel III.
I assume you guys will be around the 7.25% to 7.5% requirement.
What level above that are you willing to carry the bank at? And second to that in terms of what the CCAR in terms of your application can you share with us if you applied for more of a return of capital than what you did last year? Yes Gerard I'll go ahead and start with that and then I'll let Jeff talk about relative capitalization levels.
On CCAR I would tell you that we very much did like the starting point that we went into this year's process.
As you noted we had strong capital solidly profitable rebalanced derisked our balance sheet and I think we've got very strong process and strong models which are all important to that process.
Our capital remains solid even after the plans we submitted and what we submitted would be consistent with our capital priorities.
And as we've talked about them if the opportunity to increase our dividends to our shareholders an opportunity to look at share repurchases an opportunity to have a return of capital so everything we submitted would be consistent with that and we like the rest of the industry will share more broadly in March with the expected announcement of the results with the Federal Reserve.
And Gerard on Basel III I think we have to wait until we see the final rules to come out to determine where we're going to operate and where the industry is going to operate.
Clearly at this particular point in time we start with a very solid position and of course that will be something that we'll have to manage to whatever those targets are over time.
It's not our expectation that anybody is going to be allowed to do a major step change in their overall capital.
So I think consistent with what Beth is talking about the capital plans are filed we go through the process and we wait to hear back in March on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth I don't know if you want to disclose this some of the other banks have -- that they've applied for more of a return of capital this year than last year.
Did you -- would you guys be able to tell us if your number is going to be greater than the 50% I think you mentioned earlier in the call? Gerard this is Jeff.
I think in terms of the 50% that was in 2012 it was really for 3 quarters because we did not have any share repurchase plans in place in the first quarter of 2012.
So last year's CCAR covered a period of the second quarter through the first quarter of 2013.
And I believe we talked about we have $88 million remaining under that authorization at this point in time.
We evaluate share repurchase dividends and all the rest of the potential needs for capital when we put together our capital plans and submitted it.
And I think we will simply wait until the findings come back from the Federal Reserve and disclose that information at that particular point in time.
We'll take our next question from Alan Straus with Schroders.
I was just kind of following up on Mike Mayo's question.
Why is the target of 60% to 65% the efficiency ratio so much lower or actually the ratio is higher than some of the leading banks? And where did that number come from? Yes this is Beth and I will start with a piece about our business mix and our business model does have differences.
And from where we start we're targeting 60% to 65% by 2014.
And I think some of the tenor and the tone of what we try to convey today is that will reflect the demonstrable progress we intend to make in 2013.
But we're also committed to being a company that works continuous improvement and has a business model that will also have more opportunities for revenue growth over the intermediate and long term as well.
Okay.
Just one last question.
Do you guys give out average -- ending assets not average assets at the end of the quarter but ending assets? It's there in our balance sheet so theyre directly in the press release.
You can look at ending average all different -- they're in the press release.
We'll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back on the efficiency ratio question.
Beth when you mentioned 2014 and you mentioned 60% 65% I just want to make sure we're all super clear.
60% to 65% is you're expecting that to be on a cash basis or on a GAAP basis when you speak about 2014? It's on a cash basis.
But if you look at the amount of amortization that we have in any given year what we're currently running at would amount to about $45 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So it's not that much.
And then the second clarifying question is are you talking about getting there on a full year basis or by the end of the year? We talk about entering 2014 at that level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Entering okay.
So -- and does that mean in the fourth meaning you're there at the end of the fourth when you report fourth quarter earnings or you mean first quarter? These are the questions that were coming in there.
So I just want to make sure everyone is super clear.
We mean in the first quarter of 2014.
So 2013 is our year to show that we are making that step improvement that we're taking cost out of the organization and we're growing the franchise at the same time.
So as we go through the year the expectation in the second half of the year is you'll see improvement over what we're running at in the first half of the year and then we will have the full benefit as we enter 2014.
We're trying to be as aggressive as possible in addressing our cost in the first half of the year to get as much as we can.
And we'll provide obviously updates as we go on through this calendar year.
That is our current plan.
And I think we've been pretty transparent in our previous comments that we've made about other forms of expectations in the past whether it's been on margin expense levels et cetera.
So that is what we are targeting in the year starting next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So first quarter '14 cash efficiency ratio get breaks into 60% to 65%.
We'll take our next question from Steve Scinicariello from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a big picture question for you Beth.
As I kind of look at all the focus areas that you have for 2013 and all the opportunities that you have whether it's increasing the revenues through the fee income and average earning asset growth continuing to manage the expenses optimizing the franchise deploying capital all these things.
I was just curious as you look at the year how do you rank these opportunities and which ones give you the most bang for the buck? Yes Steve.
As I look at it I think several of the priorities we are well in flight.
I mean it's a matter of continued rigorous focus that would be and maintain our moderate risk profile.
I think returning within our targeted range on charge-offs and having realized significant benefit of quality of improvement in our balance sheet is something we just need to stay focused on.
Our distinctive business model I think is already showing results and has been in our 2012 proof point.
So I think continuing to invest smartly and drive our business outcome is a momentum we take into 2013.
So I think the 2 areas that are highest on our radar screen would be aligning our cost structure and delivering on our Fit for Growth commitments in a way where our targeted investments as well as our business strategy creates a trajectory of revenue to meet that 60% to 65% cash efficiency ratio as we start 2014.
Research Division</strong> Makes total sense.
Sounds like 2013 should be one of playing a lot more offense rather than defense and definitely look forward to that.
Due to time constraints that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Yes thank you operator and thank you for taking your time all to -- out of your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations group Vernon Patterson or Kelly Lammers.
Their number (216) 689-3133.
And that concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and good morning and let me add my welcome to KeyCorp's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Jeff Weeden our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Slide 3 shows some of the highlights of our first quarter results.
There are 3 important takeaways this quarter.
First our business model is producing results and positions us well in the current environment and beyond.
Second we are becoming a more efficient company and our expense initiative continues to show traction and gain momentum.
And third our shareholders are benefiting from our disciplined approach to capital management.
Let me start with our business model.
In the current environment of economic uncertainty and excess liquidity we are seeing more competition for lending opportunities.
In some cases this is leading to more aggressive behavior from competitors be it on price terms or other structural considerations.
At Key we have remained disciplined and we are relying on our value-added relationship-based approach to win new business expand relationships with existing clients and generate robust fee income to go with our strong C&amp;I performance.
We are confident that we are well positioned to grow and take share in our targeted markets.
In the first quarter average loan balances were up 6% from the same quarter last year.
And within that the exit portfolio continued to run off and average C&amp;I loans grew 16%.
While our loan growth has been a positive story we did see clients remain cautious in regards to the overall strength of the economy particularly towards the end of the quarter.
Second on efficiency.
We continue to deliver on our commitment to reduce expenses and move our efficiency ratio to the 60% to 65% range.
Through the first quarter we have realized annualized run rate savings of $105 million against our targeted goal of $200 million in expense savings.
It is our expectation that we will continue to incur costs related to our initiative especially in the first half of the year and we would expect this to impact our second quarter expense levels.
Overall our plans to deliver these savings are right on track and by the first quarter of next year we expect to be within our targeted efficiency range.
And it's important to note that this is not an endpoint but an important milestone for Key.
We are already working hard to identify new revenue and expense opportunities that can improve our efficiency ratio even further and deliver positive operating leverage.
And third as we have said before how we deploy our capital will be one of the most important decisions we make.
As part of our disciplined approach to capital management we have continued to actively manage our businesses to focus on our best growth opportunities.
We also identify businesses that do not fit our relationship-based strategy and would not be the best place to continue to make ongoing investments.
And as an example in the first quarter we announced the sale of Victory Capital Management and we are requesting a no objection from our regulators to return the net after-tax gain to our shareholders through share repurchase.
In addition to actively managing our business portfolio we repurchased $65 million in common shares in the first quarter.
And over the next 4 quarters we expect to return a significant portion of our net income to shareholders through the capital actions we announced last month at the conclusion of the CCAR process.
Our plan which received no objection from the Federal Reserve included a stock repurchase program of up to $426 million which our board has approved and a 10% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend which the board will consider at its regular May meeting.
Slide 4 highlights our 2013 priorities which have been consistent areas of focus.
They include continuing to leverage our business model taking advantage of our competitive position in the market improving our efficiency and remaining disciplined in the way we manage our capital.
We believe that by executing on these priorities we can continue to grow take share and deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
Now let me turn the presentation over to Jeff for some details on our first quarter results.
Jeff? Thank you Beth.
Slide 6 provides a summary of the company's first quarter 2013 results from continuing operations.
During the first quarter and for all periods presented we moved Victory Capital Management to discontinued operations due to the pending sale which is scheduled for the third quarter.
As we reported this morning the company earned a net profit from continuing operations of $0.21 per common share for the first quarter compared to $0.20 for both the fourth quarter and the first quarters of 2012.
Before moving to the more detailed discussion surrounding the quarterly results on the following slides I would note that seasonality does come into play when looking at our first quarter versus our fourth quarter and as a result we will also make reference when appropriate to the same period last year for comparison purposes.
Now turning to Slide 7.
Average total loans for the first quarter were up $767 million or 1.5% unannualized compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
And compared to the first quarter of 2012 average total loans were up $3.2 billion or 6.5%.
During the first quarter of 2013 commercial clients were somewhat cautious following the very strong demand we experienced in the fourth quarter of last year.
We also saw normal seasonal activity with respect to consumer lending in the first quarter as consumers paid down their debt they drew on last year along with normal amortization of loans in our exit portfolios.
As Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler can comment on later our commercial loan pipeline still remains solid and we are fully engaged in our spring borrowing campaign on the consumer side.
Last quarter we provided an outlook of the average total loan growth for 2013 in the mid to upper single-digit area.
And today we still anticipate average total loan growth for the year in the mid single-digit area led by strong commercial lending.
Continuing to Slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding foreign branch balances were up $120 million from the fourth quarter and up $4.3 billion from 1 year ago.
During the first quarter we believe we experienced the same trend as the industry with deposits declining in January and then coming back in the latter part of the quarter.
Over the past year our mix of deposits has significantly changed with CDs declining and lower-cost transaction accounts increasing over 14% from 1 year ago.
As a result our deposit costs declined to 29 basis points for the first quarter of 2013.
Turning to Slide 9.
For the first quarter of 2013 the company's net interest margin was 3.24% compared to 3.37% for the fourth quarter and 3.16% for the first quarter of 2012.
The net interest margin declined more than expected during the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Back in January during our fourth quarter earnings call we anticipated the margin declining to the 3.30% area for the first quarter as a result of approximately 4 basis points of onetime benefits in our fourth quarter numbers and normal downward repricing pressure on assets.
Our actual margin declined to 3.24% as a result of not only these anticipated items but also from higher-than-expected levels of short-term investment securities resulting from softer loan demand than anticipated higher levels of deposits and a change in mix of funding.
We deployed some of this excess liquidity in the form of added investment securities late in the quarter which should benefit net interest income next quarter but this will continue to place some degree of pressure on the net interest margin.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $589 million for the first quarter compared to $607 million for the fourth quarter and $559 million for the first quarter 1 year ago.
Compared to the first quarter of last year net interest income increased $30 million or 5.4% due to both growth in average earning assets and an improvement in the net interest margin as funding costs declined.
Compared to the fourth quarter net interest income declined $18 million due to 2 fewer accrual days and a decline in the net interest margin from asset repricing and higher levels of short-term investments more than offsetting the overall increase in average earning assets.
Our current expectation given the outlook for little change in interest rates is for the net interest margin to trend lower from the first quarter level throughout 2013.
We anticipate the net interest margin to decline by approximately 4 to 7 basis points in the second quarter and continue with modest pressure in the 1 to 3 basis point area per quarter in the second half of the year.
We do have $750 million of debt maturing in May with some additional benefit coming from CD repricing.
However we also recognize that asset yields remain under pressure and we have higher levels of liquidity as clients remain cautious in committing their capital.
We anticipate average earning assets for the balance of 2013 to be in the range of $74 billion to $76 billion.
Non-interest income in the first quarter was $425 million down from $439 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and $442 million in the first quarter of last year.
The first quarter is typically down from the fourth quarter due to seasonal factors as well as the strong performance we experienced in the fourth quarter of last year.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 investment banking and debt placement fees are up 30% as we continue to do more business with our commercial clients and win market share.
Cards and payments income is up 28% compared to the same period 1 year ago reflecting our reentry into credit cards during the third quarter of last year.
I would also note last year's first quarter there were higher gains from principal investing as well as we benefited from the early termination of a leveraged lease which resulted in the recognition of a $20 million gain.
Turning to Slide 10.
Non-interest expense for the first quarter of 2013 decreased to $681 million an improvement of $53 million from the fourth quarter and better than our expectations.
Compared to the same period last year expenses increased $2 million and included in the current period expense was an $11 million increase in amortization expense plus other costs associated with our acquisitions completed in the third quarter of last year.
Overall we are seeing the benefits from our expense initiative come through to the bottom line.
As Beth commented on earlier we have captured approximately $105 million in annualized savings as of March 31 2013.
We expect expenses to be higher in the second quarter as we close 33 more branches and continue with our other expense initiatives.
In the first quarter we incurred approximately $15 million of expenses associated with Fit for Growth.
In the second quarter we expect these costs to increase to the $34 million to $38 million range as we move forward aggressively with our implementation plans.
In addition we expect to incur additional expenses from marketing associated with our spring borrowing campaign and also for contract programming as we continue to implement new technologies.
In total we anticipate expenses for the second quarter of 2013 to be in the range of $720 million to $730 million and then decline to the $680 million to $700 million range by the fourth quarter of 2013.
Included in this forecast are charges related to Fit for Growth however at a much lower level than those anticipated in the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our net charge-offs declined to $49 million or 38 basis points of average total loans in the first quarter of 2013.
Total commercial net charge-offs were $5 million or 6 basis points of gross charge-offs as gross charge-offs declined and recoveries remained strong.
The breakdown of asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on Slide 16 in the appendix.
We anticipate that net charge-offs will remain at or below the lower end of our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points for the balance of the current year and for provision expense to be near this same level.
At March 31 2013 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.70% of period-end loans and 137% coverage of nonperforming loans.
And turning to Slide 12 our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at March 31 2013 at 10.24% and 11.39% respectively.
We have also updated our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio based on the Fed's NPR on a fully implemented basis at March 31 2013 to be 10.28%.
During the first quarter we repurchased 6.8 million shares of our common stock at an average cost of $9.56 per share and reissued 3.6 million shares for employee benefit plans.
These actions completed our 2012 CCAR activities.
As Beth mentioned our 2013 capital plan includes an increase in our common share repurchase authorization for the next 4 quarters to $426 million.
In addition our plan includes a 10% increase in our common dividend to 5.5% -- $0.055 per share beginning in the second quarter which management will recommend to the board next month at their -- our scheduled meeting.
And we are working with our regulators to obtain a non-objection to the use of the estimated $145 million to $155 million net gain from the pending sale of Victory Capital Management to repurchase additional common shares in the open market.
The determination of the gain and the closing are subject to certain terms and conditions of the sales contract.
The process remains on track for a third quarter closing.
That concludes our remarks and now we'll turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Mr.
Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just within the net interest margin as we look at some of the moving pieces the commercial loan yields actually seem to be holding up quite well versus some pressure elsewhere and I'm just wondering if you can elaborate on that in terms of what you're seeing in the marketplace and how they're kind of relatively stable or even up a basis point quarter-to-quarter.
Matt this is Jeff.
I'll comment a little bit about some of the geography in the margin and then Chris and Bill can comment more fully on what they're seeing in the overall marketplace.
In the first quarter we've redirected some of the interest rate swaps and so that had a positive benefit on the commercial C&amp;I loan yields.
And so that added approximately 11 basis points to that particular yield.
I think where you see it come out of is really down on the other consumer loans.
That particular yield dropped.
I think a better way to look at it is looking at it from a -- the overall yield perspective on total loans.
Total loans were down about 11 basis points for the current quarter.
And Bill and Chris you want to talk on it? Sure.
Matt it's Chris.
You're correct.
Our spreads we've been very pleased that our spreads have really held in nicely.
But make no mistake as Beth mentioned in her initial remarks there is a fair amount of pressure out there from a structural perspective and from a pricing perspective.
And what's really going on is there's really an imbalance in kind of the supply-demand.
If you look at -- the loan market has had record inflows of new money.
There's been more CLO issuance in the first quarter than all year in 2012.
There's been 3 mid-market CLOs that have been raised.
So it's something we're watching very closely.
We've been pleased that our relationship strategy has enabled us to continue to gain clients.
And our strategy is going to be going forward what it's been and we'll continue to do what we need to do to take share.
Keep in mind a lot of our business -- half of our business is non-interest income so we have some other levers that we can pull.
And on that front if we choose to we can act as agent instead of principal which we think gives us a fair amount of flexibility.
And the other thing we're focused on a lot here at Key is -- on this very focused who we want to do business with in terms of garnering new clients but doing more with our existing clients.
So we feel like we fared pretty well to date.
But make no mistake there is a -- there's a supply-demand imbalance out there.
And Matt this is Bill.
The only thing I would add to that is where we see the most competition are some of the strongest credits where -- that are likely to be fully funded so people who are looking to put their excess deposits to work.
Again where we are -- where we can find opportunities like that but within the context of a broader relationship strategy we will compete as well as anyone.
At the same time if it's just an asset play that's not the strategy we're trying to employ.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately quickly Jeff the timing of when you would expect to hear back regarding the buybacks of the Victory relay gain? The timing kind of remains open at this particular point in time.
We may not hear back until the actual closing of the transaction which is scheduled for the third quarter.
So as soon as we hear something Matt we'll be sure to communicate that.
We'll take our next question from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So last quarter you were looking for $150 million to $200 million of cost saves for this year with most of that realized in the second half of the year.
And now we're a quarter later and you've taken the range to the upper end and half the cost saves are already in the run rate.
Can you help us think about what's driving this incremental cost save opportunity to the upper end so quickly? And the timing seems to be coming in a bit faster than expected.
This is Beth.
I'll go ahead and answer that.
And what I will tell you is we did as we came into the quarter firm up our expectations that we would reach the higher end of our range of -- at $200 million and announced that within the quarter that we had gone to the high end of the range.
That was a combination of as we announced at the end of the year that we had realized $60 million worth of run rate savings and had a conscious effort to try and accelerate the timing of the benefits for improved performance.
And within the first quarter we garnered an additional $45 million worth of run rate savings so we did get ourselves halfway to the goal as it were through the first quarter.
A variety of things happened one was just concerted effort to accelerate timing.
We have had success in our vendor and spend management areas both within contract renegotiations as well as just generally recasting how we use them.
I will tell you that we have gone heavily after process improvement and looking at more efficiently how we can support our growing business demand.
We've talked about variabilizing our expense base and other things.
And then I would tell you that is in all things just focused attention brings improvement across a multiple of areas.
As we go through the balance of the year we have in the second quarter accelerated for our branch closures will be happening in the second quarter and several other big saving moves.
So these are opportunities that we have realized and gave us more confidence on the upper end of our range and continue to position us for the 60% to 65% commitment by Q1 '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And Beth if I could ask a follow-up was the sale of Victory part of a broad-based sale evaluation of all the business lines? Or was that just a one-off situation? I would describe it as a asset within our company that we have questioned its strategic fit with our relationship strategy over the last several years.
And as we looked at its client base which is largely mandated institutional investors it did not really fit with our client base and there was not a lot of linkage to what we are doing in terms of assets under management and our private bank.
So we determined that we were not the best owner for that asset and not the best owner to continue to invest in that asset for its own growth.
So we made a strategic decision as we look at our mix of businesses that Victory was a good one to sell and with step one announcing that and then that as we said created an opportunity to request an additional return of that net after-tax gain to our shareholders.
We'll take our next question from Keith Murray with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk on the revenue opportunity side? I mean you guys have plenty of capital.
You're making progress on expenses.
It just seems like to get the returns in the place that you need them are there revenue opportunities that we're not seeing? Yes Keith this is Chris.
We're seeing a lot of revenue opportunities actually.
Our business as Beth pointed out very very relationship-focused.
And whereas Victory we couldn't leverage the relationships because consultants controlled it or our clients no longer had defined pension plans there are a lot of adjacencies that we've frankly been looking at.
And there's a fair amount of deal flow externally right now that we've been looking at.
So that's sort of to augment our whole relationship strategy.
The other areas where we've been investing heavily with a fair amount of success is people.
We feel like we have a unique business model that's underleveraged.
And we've been hiring senior-level people that can help us leverage our platform.
And we've hired 85 or so such people since the beginning of 2010.
And we do a lot of metrics around here and those have been very accretive.
The other 2 areas where we've been investing and will continue to invest one is in our payments business what we call enterprise commercial payments.
As you know that's a very sticky business.
That's a business that enables us to talk to our clients all the time.
Mid-market companies are very much looking for not just the ability to execute but information about their working capital.
We've made some significant investments in that area.
And then lastly is health care.
One of the things that we're really proud of is we've put together along with the Community Bank really a bank-wide industry group focused on facilities-based health care.
And we've invested a lot.
We have -- right now we already have a lot of clients.
We've rationalized those clients and we've invested in some more talent and some specific product offerings around facilities-based health care.
And Keith this is Bill.
I would add a couple other items.
Our past calls and comments about our investment in credit card that's a new and emerging opportunity that we're really excited about.
Client penetration is improving.
New account growth is improving.
We have opportunity to focus on the utilization and activation of those cards as we move forward.
And we see a lot of opportunity to improve our penetration over time in the client base.
And then we are very pleased with the momentum we're building in our private banking business.
As we see our value proposition in working very actively with middle-market companies not only within the Community Bank but also privately held and publicly held companies in the corporate bank we think there's an opportunity to cross-sell that product in a very impactful way.
And our clients are telling us they like the combination of the ability to talk to them about their commercial needs as well as their personal investment needs "at the same time." And we think that's very relevant and very impactful and we're -- that's what our clients are telling us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears to the stress test process.
One was there any surprises in the process this year as you went through it? And then two can you guys see a period where you can feel comfortable asking for more than 100% of net income as a capital return given your high starting point? Well I think the -- Keith this is Jeff.
I think in terms of the overall process that both sides are learning and that I think we are getting better at our stress testing and our modeling capabilities and being able to really fully understand the balance sheet the flows of the balance sheet et cetera under various stressed environments.
So from a perspective I wouldn't say there were any major surprises on our part as we went through 2013's stress test process.
I think the other part of your question I think the future is still something that we'll have to see play out over time and I don't think we can make a representation at this point in time about future capital actions.
That's something that we will discuss obviously with our Board of Directors and go through also with our regulators.
And Keith this is Beth.
I would just add that we were satisfied with our outcome of the submission of our CCAR this year.
We have the opportunity to increase our dividends 10% share repurchase by 24%.
We are making the request for the gain on Victory Capital.
So this continues to be a priority of ours to manage our capital in a way that includes a return to our shareholders.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Nick Karzon standing in for Craig this morning.
I guess the first question on the non-interest-bearing deposits it looks like there was an 8% decline quarter-over-quarter.
And I was wondering if there is some seasonal volatility there or if tag or something else was in play? Yes there is definite seasonal volatility that -- in that particular line item.
We had both plants that borrowed in the fourth quarter and left deposits with us and then deployed those deposits in the first quarter.
So there's some of that particular activity that's in that -- both the spot balance can go up but also in the average balances in the course of the quarter.
So people are raising capital and then deploying that capital.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as a follow-up just a quick question.
On the average total loan growth guidance I guess the previous guidance was mid to upper single digit.
Is that coming down to mid single digit if I heard correctly or is it still mid to upper single digit? Mid single digit is what we commented on this morning.
We'll take our next question from Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just make sure I understand the -- kind of the expense commentary correctly.
It sounds like if I heard you correctly it sounds like the range toward the end of the year is $680 million to $720 million a quarter.
So I think that the first quarter then once you remove the Fit for Growth cost it sounds like that's going to be kind of the low watermark for the year.
And even though things will be pretty well contained the cost base will be -- kind of be higher than here on kind of a run rate basis going forward.
I mean does that mean all of the future savings are going to be kind of reinvested elsewhere? Or -- I mean are there some additional opportunities to bring down that run rate cost base as we go forward? How are you guys thinking about that dynamic? Well Scott I think in terms of looking at the expenses and how they progress the fourth quarter still has Fit for Growth charges in it so we still have other initiatives that are decked out for the fourth quarter.
So the range we gave of $680 million to $700 million that includes Fit for Growth charges that are in there.
And I think the other thing that we always have to look at is there is seasonality associated with our overall activity.
And generally we have increased business activity particularly on the commercial side in the fourth quarter and then that will drive additional activities.
I think Chris talked about the other investments.
We talk about investing we're talking about people that we're investing into to drive more revenue growth for the company on a go-forward basis.
So we won't really get to our full what I'd call run rate benefits until we get into the first quarter of 2014.
So we're being very aggressive on moving through 2013 with getting our initiatives in place.
There's a lot that's going to happen in the second quarter.
During the call we announced this in the -- at the end of the second quarter of last year.
These initiatives do take time to go through and plan and they -- we've been doing that aggressively.
And I think we're in a pretty good place right now with all those particular things that are decked out to go.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that sounds good.
I appreciate that color.
And then separately Beth you gave some good color on just sort of the way some of your customers that are feeling it on the commercial side.
I wonder if Chris or Bill if you might give some additional thoughts on sort of what you guys are seeing either geographically or kind of by client size where you see things particularly strong or weak if there are any distinctions? Scott this is Bill.
I would say on the commercial side we are seeing some leasing strengths in the Northeast in our pipelines.
Now the first -- the fourth quarter it was a little slower for them.
We've seen consistent activity in the Great Lakes at nice healthy levels for a number of quarters now.
And the West has been a little softer but still at pretty good levels relative to certainly a year or 2 ago.
So that's on the commercial side.
I would say on the consumer side it's continually improving tone but I think -- I still think there's in the overall context some work to be done in terms of consumer confidence still.
Our home equity pipeline continues to build.
Spring borrowing early days in the pipeline is building around what we expected.
And I think that's a function of improving home values and general improving confidence.
But I think it's at a moderate pace is the way I would describe it.
And Scott this is Chris.
I would say -- so Bill covered it from a geographic perspective.
As you know our business is by industry sector all domestic I might add.
So here's what we're seeing.
I don't think there's a lot of consistency.
I think it's spotty.
I think the people that are doing well most of the positive activity is domestic when you look at some of the factors out there.
I think there's still a lot of excess capacity in the system.
I don't see a lot of people out there hiring.
What we do see is an extension of overtime.
We see that fairly regularly.
And I think the biggest challenge out there from a business perspective is there's no huge impetus to go long so to speak.
I mean commodity prices are under pressure.
Throughout the entire supply chain there's availability.
So while our clients are in great shape from a financial perspective the profitability is there they'd like to do something strategic.
I just think that there's not a huge impetus to do so based on sort of the economic environment that we're operating in.
We'll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions on fees if you don't mind.
On the -- well just first of all if you could just give us some context of your overall outlook from here.
I just -- and within that I just wondered what your -- what the investment banking and debt pipeline looks like and if there was anything in the other category to note.
So Ken it's Chris.
Let me speak a little bit to our investment and debt placement pipeline.
We had a record first quarter on a trailing 12 basis.
It's at a record $339 million.
The pipeline is on a year-over-year basis is stronger than it was.
So as we look into the pipeline really across the board whether it's on balance sheet off balance sheet it's stronger.
I would put the caveat out there though based on the discussion we just had as you well know it's subject to not only the economy but also to market conditions.
But we feel good about the forward momentum of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff on the overall outlook just for fee growth and whether there was anything to note in the other line this quarter? Well I think overall on the fee growth we typically have a momentum that we go through the course of the year.
So we would typically see second third fourth quarters that first quarter is typically the softest quarter that we have and that we usually build from that point on.
In the other category it really is a number of just items that more or less that were positive this quarter versus they were negative in the prior quarters.
So if you look at it from a perspective the miscellaneous items may have been $5 million positive this quarter in a couple of items where they were actually negative revenue in previous quarters.
So that's a lot of the overall change that's there.
I would expect that that number will be somewhere in that other other category somewhere between $20 million and $30 million on a kind of a go-forward basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly one on the expenses.
I get all the commentary just around reinvesting and about run rate goes higher from here.
But just against that backdrop of what you had originally been saying for the fourth quarter of this year and the fact that you've just achieved so much better in a positive way this quarter I hear that you're saying that you feel more confident about getting into that 60% to 65% zone.
But why on an absolute level wouldn't we be ending the year kind of better then you had originally had indicated? Ken this is Beth.
There's a couple of things.
I think as Jeff outlined when he talked about some of his thoughts on the fourth quarter it does still include a level of Fit for Growth charges so $680 million to $700 million would include that.
And then as you look at seasonality of expenses there are a couple of things in the fourth quarter that will elevate historically in terms of professional fees and various kinds of expenses.
And we -- and frankly in the first quarter had relatively low marketing expenses.
So if you kind of sort through some of that that still means that there is a continued improvement in our run rate as you go through the year.
And the second thing I would observe is as we currently sit here we do have plans to invest in our business.
That's something we have talked about is that we have plans to grow our businesses to grow our revenues.
Those will be subject to our estimate of the business plan the economic condition the business case our capability our resources.
But as we go through the year we do want to continue to support what we see as the momentum with growth of our businesses as well.
As we go through each quarter I think our goal is to give you good clarity and transparency about how that works.
We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My question is on efficiency I guess both capital and expense.
But on the capital efficiency why would you request to increase the dividend with your stock trading below tangible book? And how aggressive might you be in repurchasing shares? I mean the shares are down it's 0.5% in the first quarter.
But your stock's at $9.49 and tangible book is $9.78.
So how aggressive will you be and what's the time frame? Mike this is Jeff.
We have just a modest increase in the overall dividend.
It's going up $0.005 per quarter so it is -- it represents a 10% increase for the next 4 quarters.
I think in terms of the overall return of capital I believe that our numbers will rank one of the higher of the CCAR-related banks that went through the overall process.
And we still have to go through a process.
So it's not like you can go and buy back stock at any given point in time just because you have a desire to do so.
It is a process that you have to work through each and every year with your board and with the regulators.
I think we are returning capital and we agree with your comment as to where we trade and with the desire to return capital.
The dividend itself in terms of the overall dollars is not a significant dollar amount.
Research Division</strong> And then on the operating efficiency.
I know you've had several questions on this but it looks like you all have $95 million of savings and these extra expenses this year could be potentially close to that number.
So I'm not sure how to think about that.
I mean if you take in the extra potentially $50 million more in the second quarter and maybe it's going to be $30 million after that it could be $20 million after that you literally could be an extra $95 million of expenses above your first quarter level in a year when you're getting $95 million of savings.
So I guess the question is how much of these savings are really going to be sustainable? I guess one question is what are the expenses in the first quarter of '14? Not that we have that specific number but just so we know how you're thinking about things.
Yes.
So Mike I think in terms of the first quarter of 2014 the fourth quarter we have Fit for Growth charges in there so we already know certain things that are related to real estate et cetera that will happen towards the end of the year.
Those particular charges will hit in '14.
We'll get a -- or '13 and we'll get a benefit into 2014.
The range that we've provided has and I'll just say it in approximate terms because this can change but it's about $20 million worth of Fit for Growth charges that are embedded in that $680 million to $700 million number that we provided in our guidance for the fourth quarter of this year.
So I think we have to look at it in the sense of as we roll into 2014 we will have -- we will be within our targeted range and we will continue to work on other initiatives.
So this isn't something that what I'd call an initiative that it's if we get this out of the way and we go on our merry path what it really relates to is a cultural change within the overall organization of striving for continuous improvement identifying ways that we can do better on end-to-end processes throughout the company and deliver positive operating leverage to our shareholders on a go-forward basis.
Mike I would just add that a number of the initiatives that we are undertaking this year will also create benefits in '14.
I think Jeff said that earlier that we are doing a number of things for which the value will also be fully realized in 2014.
So I think it's important to note that they are sustainable and that we every day think about the interplay of investing in revenue becoming a more efficient company and believe we need to do both in 2014.
I think you'll see more clarity and we will be within that targeted range of 60% to 65% as we start the year.
We'll go next to Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on credit actually.
Was there anything unusual in terms of credit that led to the reserve build this quarter? I guess I'm just trying to figure out if the 1.7% reserve ratio is a stable number from here.
And if I missed it and if you can just repeat your guidance for provision and charge-offs that would be great.
Okay.
Ken this is Jeff.
Bill Hartmann can also provide some additional context to this too.
We go through and look at our methodology all the time and look at how we're reserving.
And so as we go through that process there are refinements that are made.
I think in terms of how we want to look at the reserve and charge-offs and provisioning going forward we provided guidance that we expect to be at or below the lower end of our range.
So our targeted range is 40 to 60 basis points.
We expect to be actually below that for the course of 2013 and that provision expense will probably be fairly close to net charge-offs.
So this quarter it was $6 million.
I can't tell you exactly where it'll be for the next few quarters but it won't be far off from where net charge-offs are.
Research Division</strong> So the 1.7% ratio is probably a stable number going forward? Well it could be...
Research Division</strong> Aside from loan growth of course.
It could -- yes besides from loan growth it could be 1.65% it could be 1.75%.
I can't tell you specifically because you really do have to look at the credits each and every quarter as we build up the reserve.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> It's Jessica Ribner for Paul.
We just had one question about your branch network and what your thought process might be surrounding it especially as people's habits change vis--vis branches.
Jessica this is Bill.
We think about that a lot.
I think we start from a fundamental belief that the branch will remain meaningful to many of our clients going forward.
We -- clients across -- in all our segments transact in some way with the branch and the Community Bank so middle-market companies small businesses and consumers.
What we also recognize is consumer behavior is changing and as -- and is changing as technology changes.
So we have to find the right way to invest in our branch network in a way that complements the physical presence with a virtual presence in the context of our relationship strategy.
And what we've done in the more recent period is pulled down the investment in our branch network over the last few years with now a focus on rationalizing and optimizing.
And we've begun to layer in investments in the virtual space with some of our mobile applications and online banking and things of that nature.
And as we move forward that's where the primary focus of our investments will be.
We'll go next to Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the competitive environment and how lenders are competing on price and then term and now structure.
And you say that Key is remaining disciplined and I by no means am picking on Key with this question.
But every bank says the environment is competitive but they're remaining disciplined but their competitors aren't.
So who's making these loans? I mean is it smaller banks? Is it larger banks? Who is the marginal lender who is being -- who lacks discipline in this environment? So Josh this is Bill.
I would just say this.
We're seeing competition in a number of places and our focus has to be identifying those clients who value our relationship strategy and the broad capabilities we can bring to bear be it our payments capabilities our local expertise our decision-making the capabilities that Chris and his team have in the Corporate Bank around industry expertise and capital markets.
That's where we're focused.
So to the extent in an environment like this where we are going to stretch so to speak we're going to do it and we're doing it in the context of a relationship strategy and the ability to manage our risk appropriately and our returns because we can bring real value to the equation and we have really good access to management teams.
We know what to do and we understand the business and we can bring value to the equation.
Yes.
Josh it's Chris.
I would say the competition is across the board.
As you look at the really high-quality middle market companies there's just a supply-demand imbalance.
There's a few kind of headline transactions that you read about.
Those clearly aren't middle-market companies.
There's just not a lot of activity.
So you really see just a whole bunch of competitors chasing the same companies.
The other thing as I mentioned earlier is there's a lot of fund activity and with the cost of equity in these funds they're able to refinance a lot of transactions.
But I would say where I see it as most pronounced are transactions that maybe only take one provider of capital.
Whereas in our syndicated finance business we lead about 70% of all the deals we're in so we get a pretty good insight.
There is probably a better market discipline in syndicated finance than there is for these quality transactions that one source of financing can fund.
That would be my observation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked quite a bit about your relationship approach.
So when you're thinking about you might make a loan to a client at a certain price and that client also might park deposits with you or generate fee income what metric or key metrics are you looking at to evaluate what that -- the true economic value that client relationship is worth to your bank? So the first thing we look at Josh is each and every relationship that we have we have relationship reviews.
We talk about what our penetration is what their share of wallet is what we're getting out of that share of wallet.
And we have a relationship ROE target of 22%.
So that's as a start.
Then the other thing we spend a lot of time doing is really evaluating what we call expanded relationships and what we call an expanded relationship is someone we've done more than $100 000 with on a year-to-date basis than we did in -- at the trailing 12 period ended 12/31.
And for example we have in -- 56 such relationships that have generated about $28 million in the Corporate Bank this year.
And when they're expanded they're not expanded by $100 000 or so they're expanded based on those numbers by say $5 000 or so -- $500 000 or so.
So those are the real -- we spend a lot of time looking at metrics a lot of time looking at market share making sure we're targeting the right clients and prospects.
We'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered except just one follow-up question to Keith on capital.
Jeff according to your guidance on average loan growth and average earning assets it seems like you'll keep your securities to earning assets ratio relatively the same for the balance of the year.
I guess given that you're such a capital return story have you thought about how to think about the portfolio size going into next year's CCAR as it seems like the Fed is more interested in starting to test for interest rate risk for future years? Yes Erica.
In terms of our investment portfolio we've stayed very disciplined with keeping the weighted average life of that particular portfolio.
It's 2.8 years at the end of the first quarter.
So it is something that we look at we test we shock.
We look at it all the time.
I think in terms of the overall size of the portfolio we said about the minimal size of that portfolio is going to be around $16 billion.
And of course it will grow depending on the amount of liquidity that we have or we'll make other determinations just like we may have more short-term liquidity or do other things in terms of managing our overall interest rate risk as a company.
We're asset-sensitive at the end of the first quarter.
We were asset-sensitive at the end of last year.
Net asset sensitivity is about 1.4% to 1.5% to a 200 basis point movement in rates over the course of the next 12 months.
We'll take our next question from Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a big picture strategy question for you guys.
Just given the many levers you guys have to pull whether it's expense leverage capital leverage credit leverage franchise leverage market share opportunities and revenue improvement opportunities as well how do you go about kind of prioritizing each of those areas when you look at them? And then secondly which of those do you feel provide you with the biggest near-term bang for the buck and the biggest longer-term bang for the buck? Steve this is Beth.
I'll go ahead and tell you that we're in an environment where you've got 3 really strong revenue levers in terms of revenue expense and capital and we grade each of our priorities against what it will do to enhance our revenue and grow our relationship clients what it will do to make us -- how do we manage our cost base to be more variable as well as more efficient.
And then third is it going to be good for our shareholders and our capital return as well as return on capital over time? So I would tell you that in an environment like we're in those are the things we look at every single day.
And then within those we prioritize which will be most impactful which are most accretive to our strategies and which will with our current resources and capabilities provide the most benefit in our ability to execute.
So that is the lens with which we have those discussions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just kind of getting a little more color about that.
Do you feel like 2013 we're going to see more in terms of expense saves and then 2014 is more about revenue improvement? Or can we see kind of a mix of all of these things even this year in this tough environment? I think the mix is going to be also subject to what the environment does produce.
But obviously we are focused on growing loans.
We are focused on the ability to bring in quality relationships.
And as Chris talked about expanding relationships we've invested in new product capabilities.
We still have some incremental liability repricing management expensing -- managing our expenses investing where appropriate.
So I think all of those when you think of them as levers could produce outcomes against all those both the ability to be more profitable to grow revenue as well as grow clients.
We'll take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth coming back to something you said about the Victory Asset Management sale.
You indicated that you -- it wasn't a strong fit with the client-facing strategy that you have.
Are there other businesses that fit that category that potentially could be sold in the future? Gerard as we looked at our portfolio of businesses as we made the decision to market Victory it was unique in that regard in terms of how we had repositioned it after the financial downturn to be really an institutional money manager.
And then the other businesses we have discussed we've worked very hard and very purposely at making sure they do fit within our relationship strategy that we bring our Corporate and Community Banks closer together as well as the integration of those businesses.
So our focus with our current business mix is to build them around that relationship strategy and our go-to-market point of view.
LLC Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say from our expectation standpoint we should not anticipate further sales of businesses in the next 18 months or so? I would say that Victory is -- we're looking forward to completing that transaction and developing and growing the businesses we have.
We'll take our next question from Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> As far as your I guess NII or NIM guidance what level of competition does that assume? Meaning are you assuming pricing will kind of remain where it is or additional pressures will come out? Mike this is Jeff Weeden.
We're assuming that we're going to have continued pricing challenges out there in the marketplace but I don't think it's going to be any greater than what it has been for the last few quarters.
So we've actually seen relatively stability with respect to the spreads.
Now where we're seeing the pricing come down or the yields pressure come down really relates more to the fact that we have some of the what I'd call term loans that we've had in the past are repricing down.
And those are repricing down at much lower rates as they mature.
LIBOR-based we've been saying basically between LIBOR plus 200 to 275.
Now that may be down 25 basis points from a year ago but it is still hanging in there and I think this relationship strategy and staying to targeted clients is where that pays off and benefits us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Chris I don't know if you could comment -- I don't know how many leveraged loans you guys do but have you seen any impact -- or do you expect any impact from the recent guidance that came out? And then also maybe not necessarily related to leveraged loans but do you have a defined risk parameter in lending where if competition gets too much you'll just back off? Or is that something that's more dynamic? Mike this is Bill Hartmann.
When we looked at a detailed analysis of the guidance that was provided -- the interagency guidance that was provided we think that our business actually stacks up pretty fine to that guidance.
There are some other people that are in the market that we see that have been on the more aggressive end who may potentially be impacted by that but we think our business model stacks up pretty well.
And when the market turns overly aggressive in the past we have always held true to our convictions and let the market go where it has to go.
Yes.
Mike just -- this is Chris.
Just to augment with some of the detail that Bill just mentioned our leveraged loan book here first of all we look at our leveraged loan book throughout the entire company which is one of -- part of the guidance and that's how we do it.
If you think about it our leveraged loans are maybe say 3% of our total loans.
So it's not a huge part of our business.
The other thing is we have not grown that book of business since the end of '11.
We've been just recycling the capital.
So I agree with Bill.
I think we're in pretty good stead under the new regs as we currently understand them.
We'll take our next question from Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Keith's talked a lot about growing the payments and technology and it's right here on Page 3.
Could you just talk a little bit about the investments that have made -- been made the expenses? Are you starting to breakeven? And then maybe more importantly where will we see the results? If I look at the cards and payments numbers 90% of it's out of the Community Bank.
And will over time we start to see that in other lines of business at Key? Okay this is Jeff.
I think in terms of where the revenue is coming through you'll see it -- in the cards and payments side of the equation you're right a lot of that is going to be over in the Community Bank but it's also a growing presence over in the Corporate Bank too.
And so it is across both of our major lines of business.
It goes -- it's one of those businesses that -- it's the reason it's called enterprise commercial payments within the company is it encompasses the entire enterprise.
I think what you've seen really in some of the investments that we've made were with respect to cards that we had made last year and I think that particular business is approximately breakeven.
And it's approximately breakeven because you're still seeing some reserve build that's out there.
So x that reserve build that you saw in the first quarter here in that particular line it would have had a profitability that would have been quite acceptable plus it has amortization expense associated with the purchase credit card receivable.
I think the other area where we've made -- have made investments and of course it's early in this particular process is really in the merchant side of the equation and Chris will talk about that for just a second.
Sure.
So on the merchant side having control of the merchant card is very important very very critical for a lot of Business Banking clients very important going forward in health care because it's going to be part and parcel of that whole information loop between the provider the insurance company and the patient.
And we've brought that back in-house.
We had used an outside provider and we brought it back in-house so that we could control the client experience we could control the pricing.
And so that sales force has just hit the ground running.
The other 2 areas where we're going to continue to invest are both on the prepaid side and the purchase card.
And particularly within our public sector business the prepaid card is very very important as we go forward.
So it will show up in a few revenue pools kind of across the enterprise.
I would say merchant would be really skewed to small business and Business Banking.
And the prepaid investments that we're making we think can give us a real lift on our public sector business.
And this is Bill.
The other area that I wouldn't want us to lose sight of is debit debit processing.
We about 18 months ago in the face of Durbin undertook a project to enter into a partnership with MasterCard around debit processing.
And we completed our full conversion in February to -- which dramatically reduces our cost of processing as we move forward.
And we'll take our last question from John Moran with Macquarie Capital.
Just we're a couple of quarters away removed now from sort of the HSBC branch transaction in upstate.
Obviously that was -- it was kind of an opportunity on the funding side probably more so than anything else.
I was just wondering if you could provide a quick update on asset generation opportunities in that market.
There's a lot of disruption and maybe spend a second outlining the strategy up there.
Sure.
This is Bill.
We feel very good about the success we've had in integrating that business -- or the branches with our business there.
Our client retention has been very good especially relative to plans.
The employee retention very good relative to plans and the tone in the market has been very positive for us.
We -- one of the things we did like about the capabilities that we acquired was a focus on the mass affluent client.
And there are some things we can learn from that team that we're building into our product offerings around investments in particular where we thought that we had an opportunity to up-tier some of our capabilities by leveraging some of their capabilities and we're working around that as we go.
So it's folded into our business very well and we like the momentum we have.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Beth Mooney for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and we thank you all for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Dillon at (216) 689-3133.
That concludes our remarks.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Turning now to Slide 3.
Our results in the second quarter reflect the clear progress we have made in implementing our growth initiative improving our cost structure and executing on our capital priorities.
Year-over-year revenue grew for the fifth consecutive quarter with current period results benefiting from our branch and credit card portfolio acquisitions loan growth and lower funding costs.
Revenue trends compared to the first quarter were relatively stable with flat loan balances with stronger fee income from commercial clients who are taking advantage of favorable capital market conditions.
And because of our distinctive model we were able to capture the economics from these transactions while doing what was right for our clients.
During the second quarter we also continued to invest to drive future revenue growth.
We acquired a commercial servicing portfolio and added to our special servicing business.
This allows us to leverage our existing platform and meaningfully changes the competitive profile of our commercial loan servicing business positioning us as the third largest servicer of commercial and multi-family loan and the fifth largest special servicer of CMBS in the United States.
The first phase of the transaction closed as expected at the end of June.
We've also continued to invest in our online and mobile offerings.
In the second quarter we launched new remote deposit capabilities for both our commercial and consumer clients which add value and convenience consistent with changing client preferences.
Reducing our cost structure and improving efficiency also remain among our top priorities.
From the launch of our expense initiative 1 year ago we have achieved annual run rate savings of $171 million a substantial portion of the $200 million target we committed to reach by December of this year.
Importantly reaching our target will be a significant milestone but not an endpoint.
We are already identifying new opportunities to both grow revenue and reduce and variabilize our expenses.
And as we previously communicated we expected this quarter to be the high point in terms of charges associated with our efficiency plans.
Consistent with our guidance we incurred charges of $37 million with a large portion related to the realignment of our Community Bank and the consolidation of 33 branches.
In the second half of the year we have another 14 branches identified for closure which will bring our total to approximately 7% of our total branch networks.
As a result noninterest expense was down $45 million from the prior year excluding the charges for our efficiency initiative as well as costs related to our recent acquisitions of credit card in the Western New York branches.
And as Don will discuss our cash efficiency ratio adjusted for the efficiency charges was 65.4% this quarter just above the upper end of our near term goal of 60% to 65%.
And finally we continue to manage our capital consistent with our stated priority.
During the second quarter our board approved a 10% increase in our common share dividend and we executed on our share repurchase program by buying back $112 million in common shares.
This is consistent with our 2013 CCAR submission which places us among the highest in our peer group for estimated payout ratio.
And as we look forward capital management will remain a clear priority.
Along with improving our operating leverage we're both executing on our revenue initiatives and improving our cost structure.
Now let me turn the presentation over to Don for some details on our financial results.
Don? Thank you Beth.
Slide 5 provides highlights from the company's second quarter 2013 results.
This morning we recorded net income from continuing operations of $0.21 per common share for the second quarter compared to $0.21 for the first quarter of 2013 and $0.23 for the second quarter of 2012.
And importantly as Beth pointed out we incurred $37 million or $0.03 per share of costs associated with our efficiency initiative this quarter.
I'll cover many of these results in my remarks so I'll now turn to Slide 6.
Average total loans for the second quarter were up $70 million or an annualized 1% compared with the first quarter of 2013 and up $3.3 billion or 7% compared to a year-ago quarter.
Loan growth continues to be impacted by cautious client behavior a competitive environment and as Beth mentioned the attractiveness of capital markets alternatives which are well positioned to deliver to our clients.
Our outlook for loan growth remains positive and consistent with our prior guidance of mid-single-digit growth for the year driven by CF&amp;A.
Continue with Slide 7.
From the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding foreign branch balances were up $1.7 billion for the first quarter and up $4.6 billion from 1 year ago.
Deposit growth for the first quarter was primarily due to an increase in demand and interest-bearing commercial deposits including higher balances from some of Key's larger clients.
Compared to the prior year deposit growth also benefited from Key's acquisition of branches in Western New York.
Over the past year our mix of deposits has significantly changed with CDs declining and lower-cost transaction accounts increasing 13%.
As a result year-over-year deposit cost declined from 47 to 26 basis points.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our taxable equivalent net interest income was $586 million for the second quarter compared to $589 million for the first quarter and $544 million for the second quarter 1 year ago.
Compared to the second quarter of last year net interest income increased $42 million or 8% due to growth in average earning assets which included our recent acquisitions and an improvement in funding cost.
I would also point out in the second quarter of 2012 Key's results reflected the impact of the early termination of leverage leases.
These transactions reduced net interest income by $10 million but provided a gain of $31 million in noninterest income resulting in a net pretax gain of $21 million.
For the second quarter the company's net interest margin was 3.13% compared to 3.24% in the first quarter and 3.06% from the second quarter of last year.
As you can see on this slide the decline in net interest margin from the prior quarter was primarily due to lower earning asset yields and higher-than-expected levels of liquidity resulting from softer-than-anticipated loan demand and higher levels of deposits.
The higher level of deposits and as resulting impact on liquidity and investment securities was the primary difference from our prior guidance as it reduced our margin by approximately 5 basis points.
The net interest margin also was impacted by the termination and maturity of $4.4 billion of interest rate swaps that were not replaced as we continue to increase our overall asset sensitivity.
Importantly the use of interest rate swaps provides us with the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate risk position.
While Key was a little off with other asset-sensitive banks generally benefit from a rise in both short-term and long-term rates.
The duration and characteristics of Key's loan portfolio and also investment portfolio position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the curve.
Recognizing that asset yields remain under pressure and given our higher levels of liquidity we expect net interest margin to experience modest pressure in the range of 1 to 3 basis points per quarter in the second half of the year.
We anticipate for the balance of 2013 loan growth will exceed deposit growth which should result in a relatively stable net interest income.
Slide 9 shows a summary of noninterest income which accounts for approximately 42% of total revenue.
Noninterest income in the second quarter was $429 million up from $425 million in the first quarter but below the $457 million in the second quarter of last year.
Adjusting for the $31 million gain from the leverage lease terminations in the second quarter of 2012 noninterest income would be slightly higher than in the prior year.
Additionally principal investing gains were down year-over-year.
Many of our core fee income categories have shown strength through the second quarter.
Investment banking and debt placement fees continue to grow and are up 46% on a rolling 4-quarter average basis as we continue to do more business with our commercial clients and win market share.
And cards and payment income is up 35% compared to the same period 1 year ago reflecting our investment in and our focus on payment products including our reentry into the credit card market during the third quarter of last year.
Turning to Slide 10.
Noninterest expense for the second quarter was $711 million.
The increase was expected and driven by several factors.
Importantly as I mentioned earlier expenses for the quarter included $37 million in charges related to our efficiency initiative.
Compared with the same period last year expenses increased $18 million.
Included in the current period expense along with the charges for our efficiency initiative of $37 million were costs of approximately $26 million associated with our 2 acquisitions completed in the third quarter of last year.
Excluding these 2 items expenses for the quarter were $45 million lower than the prior year.
Overall we are seeing the benefits from our expense initiative come through to the bottom line.
As Beth commented on earlier we have captured approximately $171 million in annualized savings as of June 30.
During the quarter we closed 33 more branches and aggressively continued with other efficiency initiative implementation plans.
We also incurred additional expense from marketing associated with our spring home equity campaign and for contract programming as we continue to implement new technologies.
We continue to expect that expenses will decline to the $680 million to $700 million range by the fourth quarter of this year.
Included in this forecast are efficiency initiative charges of approximately $20 million.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our net charge-off declined to $45 million or 34 basis points of average total loans in the second quarter.
Overall gross charge-off declined and recoveries remained strong.
Total commercial loan charge-offs remained low at 5 basis points of average loans.
The breakdown of asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on Slide 18 in the appendix.
We anticipate that net charge-offs will remain at or below the lower end of our targeted range for the balance of the current year and for provision expense to be near the same level.
At June 30 2013 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.65% of period-end loans and 134% coverage of nonperforming loans.
And turning to Slide 12.
Our tangible common equity ratio and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong as of the end of the quarter at 9.96% and 11.2% -- 11.25% respectively.
Earlier this month regulators approved the final rule for implementing the Basel III regulatory capital standards.
The mandatory compliance date for Key begins in January of 2015 with transitional provisions extending to January of 2019.
Our current estimate of Tier 1 common equity as calculated under the final rule was 10.8% which exceeds the fully phased-in minimum requirement.
As Beth mentioned during the second quarter we also repurchased $112 million or 10.8 million shares of common stock.
And the board increased our common dividend 10% to $0.055 per share.
We also expect the Victory divestiture to close during the third quarter.
The after-tax realized gain which was originally estimated to be $145 million to $155 million is now expected to be in the range of $100 million to $115 million.
We anticipate the cash portion of the gain to be between $75 million and $90 million.
The difference from the original estimate is due to higher-than-expected client attrition that has taken place during the consent process which is difficult to predict.
Key has received no objection from the Federal Reserve to use the cash portion of the gain for common share repurchases.
The remaining amount of the gain is expected to be considered in our 2014 CCAR submission.
That concludes our remarks and now I will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A segment of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Let's begin with Steve Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious.
On the expenses with $171 million of the cost saves already in the run rate at the midpoint of the year is this a function of getting to the $200 million in targeted cost saves more quickly? Because I thought originally you were saying more of this is going to come in the back half of the year.
Or is it a function of the opportunity for cost saves potentially being above $200 million? Steve this is Don.
And as far as our cost save projection you are right.
$171 million is probably earlier than what we would have initially expected.
We are very focused on delivering against our plan.
I think that it's important to note that even once we achieve this this is more of a milestone as opposed to the endgame.
And we do believe that once we implement our initiatives to achieve the $200 million we'll continue to be looking for additional opportunities to improve the overall efficiency of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one separate question on the sale of Victory Don could you review again why is the gain now estimated $40 million to $45 million lower? And then could you just review again the timing of when you expect to buy back the stock related to the cash portion of the gain? Sure.
The reason for the lower amount of gain is that throughout any sale of an asset manager there is a consent process that occurs.
And during the time period the customers have the ability to consent to the transfer or not.
We have seen greater attrition from that process than what we would have expected which is resulting in a lower gain for us.
Our expectation is the transaction will close here in the third quarter and then we can initiate share repurchases once the transaction's closed equivalent to the cash portion of the gain.
Research Division</strong> So the buyback's in 3Q for this? That would be our expectation as far as timing yes.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I just -- or maybe I wanted to follow up a little bit on the buyback to be sure I'm thinking about it the right way.
If you all have approval for $426 million plus the $75 million to $90 million from Victory less the $112 million you did this quarter rough math tells me you've got about $390 million left over the next 3 quarters.
Should we think about that -- one is that right? And then two should we think about that equally distributed over the next 3 quarters? Or will you do the Victory piece sooner since you'll have that gain in the third quarter? A couple of minor tweaks.
One is that the $112 million did include some share repurchases associated with some employee benefit plans.
And so the net number for the current quarter was about $103 million.
And so that would be the portion that will be tied up against the $426 million of total purchases.
Generally it is fairly consistent throughout the 4 quarters.
The timing of the Victory purchase would probably be more accelerated than spread out throughout the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's helpful.
And then just a couple of follow-up questions on the guidance you gave.
I think you've said provision should be near the same levels on the back half year.
I was just curious if that's the same level as this quarter or the same level as the first half of the year.
Good clarification question that is our guidance would be more equivalent to the charge-off level so that we will not be anticipating changes and provision being significantly different than charge-offs.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
And then also I think you gave expense guidance but I missed.
It was $670 million to I think you said $690 million including efficiency charges but I couldn't quite catch that number.
The number was $680 million to $700 million and including about $20 million of onetime charges.
And we'll take our next question from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask Steven's question another way on the expense side.
As we look out to 2014 do we think of the run rate quarterly run rate for next year sort of that $680 million to $700 million range minus the $20 million of inefficiency charges? And if so if that's the right base are you growing core expenses from there? Or is the message that maybe additional savings will offset any investments back into the business? Erika this is Don.
And as far as the outlook into '14 we really haven't provided guidance out into that range yet.
But I would suggest that we are going to continue to focus on efficiency improvements beyond achievement of the $200 million.
And we would expect to be able to utilize some of those savings for further investments in the business to drive growth.
And so as we start to wrap up our outlook for next year we'll provide more guidance on that.
Erika this is Beth Mooney.
I would just add that as we have -- are obviously closing in on that $200 million target which we have done at a quicker pace than I think we would have anticipated a year ago with a lot of focus and energy by our teams.
We've been intentional in talking about efficiency ratio because I think that's important that you recognize that we are focused on what we can do to both drive revenue as well as lower our cost and variabilize our cost base and also focus on including [ph] an operating leverage through these investments the strategic things we do within our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a question on Slide 8 given that this has been a big topic among the investor community.
The 2.5% increase in annual NII I mean the 200 basis point rate simulation is that a parallel increase across the curve or is that just a short end? And also could you give us a sense of what you're assuming in terms of spread compression and deposit runoff in that scenario? As far as the assumption it's a 200 basis point increase over the 12-month period on a consistent basis across the curve as opposed to one and/or the other.
And as far as deposit compression we do have assumptions as far as the level of participation in our deposit rates going up in this rate environment.
I would suggest that we believe that the market will probably underperform that meaning that the rates will probably go up on the deposit side slower than what we generally think our models would include.
Research Division</strong> And on the spread side on the loan side given your comments on deposits do you think that spread tightening that could follow an increase in benchmark rates and also slow? Yes.
Our model would assume at this point in time keeping spreads in a general same range as what we're seeing today which is probably about 25 basis points lower than what we were seeing a year ago.
So we have not anticipated further compression beyond that at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Jennifer Demba from SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could give us some color on what your customers are -- current customers are acting these days given you only had sort of stable loan growth on a linked quarter basis.
What's your feeling -- what are you seeing and what's your feeling on the economic improvement in the pace? Sure.
Jennifer this is Chris Gorman speaking.
What we're seeing on the part of our clients is they're cautious.
Their businesses are performing well but one of the -- I think one of the real telling points of the cautiousness is we're not seeing really a pickup in utilization but we continue to see for example very strong deposit growth which I think is kind of one of the things I would point to.
The cautiousness obviously relates around just some of the uncertainty the 1-or-so percent GDP growth that we're seeing.
So I think they're fairly cautious but at the same point I think they're all performing fairly well.
So that's what we're seeing from our clients.
Okay.
Jennifer this is Bill Koehler.
The only thing I would add to that as you can imagine in the Community Bank where we're focusing on smaller companies they feel a little more susceptible to potential changes in Affordable Care Act any lingering effects from sequestration because their businesses just aren't as broad and diversified as some of the larger corporate kinds we have.
So you can imagine that they are very careful about how they're choosing to invest right now.
And we'll take our next question from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Your shares have run up quite a bit and I was wondering as you think about your CCAR for the remainder of the year does the share price appreciation affect how you think about buying back shares? We do on an ongoing basis evaluate our share repurchase activity based on price and overall return.
But I would say at this point that we still believe it's appropriate for us to continue to purchase Key shares and are very excited about the opportunity to deploy capital in that way.
And Josh this is Beth Mooney.
I would just underscore that I continue to believe even at these prices our shares are an attractive purchase and return of capital to our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going back to the loan growth I think when we came into the year I think Key and your competitors you all sounded pretty optimistic about loan growth picking up in the second half of the year.
But now it sounds like you and your peers are all sort of dialing back expectations for loan growth for the second half of the year.
What's changed? I mean why are your consumer -- your customers less confident now than they might have been say 6 months ago? Josh this is Chris Gorman speaking.
I think all the things I just mentioned I think clearly impact our customers.
The other thing about our business model that impacts our loan growth is we depending on what the market is we have competition not only from other banks that are very competitive from a perspective of price structure tenor limits but we also have competition from other capital sources.
So for example in our real estate business in the first half of the year we raised a total of $18 billion of capital but very little of that actually hit our balance sheet because we were placing that capital elsewhere acting as agent not as principal.
Now the interesting thing that could happen is we get these changes in interest rates when you think about the steepness of the curve and you think about what's going on with interest rates.
Some of that as we go forward some of our clients may elect the best option may be to put it on our balance sheet going forward.
So there's really a lot of puts and takes.
There's been a ton of liquidity just across all markets.
And when it's right and it fits our moderate risk profile we clearly are putting it on the books.
But other times we're actually looking for other people to provide other types of securities.
Josh I would only add -- this is Bill.
If you look at the economic data it's been relatively volatile month-to-month quarter-to-quarter in terms of inventory build or inventory drawdown.
If you look at rates the comments that have come out by the Fed and the impact that has on rates that only creates uncertainty in the market that our clients are reacting to and trying to figure out how to invest against.
But Josh we do feel good about our mid-single-digit guidance for year-end our loan growth.
And we'll take our next question from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just perhaps a question for Chris and Beth.
I just want to follow up on the commercial servicing in part the purchases that you announced.
One is basically given what we've seen in terms of commercial loan growth so to speak over say the past 4 quarters I would have expected to see a little bit more transparency in terms of the growth in that business given your position.
And then secondly based on the purchases at this point in the expected close how should we think about kind of the potential revenue capture there as well as the offset in terms of expenses? Todd it's Chris.
Let me give you kind of an overview.
As Beth mentioned in her initial remarks this was a very important acquisition for us because it made us the #3 servicer of CMBS but it also made us the #5 special servicer.
And as we think through the cycle and you think to the next real estate cycle we initially actually thought we would be named special servicer on 47 billion.
As it's turned out because there are a lot of moving pieces we're actually named special servicer on 52.4 billion.
In terms of the conversion it's right on target.
We converted the first 3 900 loans on the 24th of June and we picked up about $700 million in deposit.
So we did give some clarity on that.
We also this weekend will convert another batch of loans that will represent $300 million in deposits.
We've never given a lot of numbers around it.
One of the things I will share with you though is you can imagine what the change in interest rates if you look at the MSRs.
While we liked the deal initially kind of the 2 things that have happened to the positive is a we're executing on time.
And the next the other thing is we have a little -- we have more in terms of special servicing.
And lastly with the change in interest rates obviously that has an impact on the value of the MSRs.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then as I combine that with the sale of Victory for example which I know the impact is not significantly material.
But as I take a step back and think about this purchase and how significant it is I would suspect that as you look towards the back half of the year that Beth you would expect to be able to grow revenue year-over-year at relatively a healthy pace so to speak.
Well Todd as you've seen I think we have done a variety of things to both invest in our businesses as well as make sure we're supporting our organic growth to acquire and deepen client relationship.
This particular acquisition I do think both brings in stable funding as Chris outlined about $1 billion of incremental deposits.
It is a market where scale matters.
And moving to #3 servicer we think puts us in a position to be in good stead for whatever activity is out there in the CMBS market in terms of new issuance as well as fee income out of special servicing.
And as we look at Victory it did not align with our relationship strategy.
We continue to think strategically that it is a good move and that Key was not the best owner for that asset.
And they'll look forward to doing a lot of things of the gain proceeds particularly the cash portion we expect to realize in the quarter to return that capital to our shareholders.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> The commercial servicing platform acquisition how much did that add in the second quarter for revenues and expenses and earnings? Mike this is Don.
They really did not add a whole lot to the closing of that initial phase as late in June.
So we'd see more of the benefit from that going into the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Can you size that a little bit? Now that we've provided much detail there that again it's going to be both in the form of deposits and also some fee income.
And we would not provide any additional clarity there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the margin going down a couple basis points for the rest of the year what's the impact of the $3 billion of CDs that are maturing for the next 2 quarters? And then you have another $3 billion next year.
I guess that's offset by the pressure on the asset yields.
Can you elaborate? I sure can.
No as we've said we were down 11 basis points this quarter but 5 of that came from excess liquidity.
And also 2 basis points came from reduction of our swaps.
And so we don't believe that either one of those will be negative nearly to the same extent that we experienced this quarter.
As far as loan yields they were down 6 basis points in the current quarter.
About 2 basis points of that was related to loan fees which tend to be a little difficult to predict as far as the timing of those.
And so normal core loan yields were down about 4 bps.
Then we would expect the deposit repricing to add about 2 basis points back to the margin as we see some of those higher-cost CDs mature.
And so the net of those of the 4 basis point decline in the earning assets and the 2 basis point improvement in the cost of funds is really how we get to that 1 to 3 basis point outlook per quarter going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then my main question relates to the growth initiatives.
Don you're -- I guess this is the first call you've been on as CFO.
And it'd be great to hear about your philosophy for controlling expenses improving efficiency.
Beth I know you said this is a milestone not a stopping point for your efficiency targets.
What's the plan ahead? When do you guys meet? I guess you probably have budget planning meetings later this year.
Can you give us some sense of the ultimate target? And I'll just note I mean the expense guidance you gave for yearend on a core basis it looks like not a lot of these expenses are hitting the bottom line.
So just any color you can give.
Mike this is Don.
And you're right this is my first call.
It's day 45 today so still learning as we go here.
But I think the approach that we're using here is very appropriate that we are keenly focused on driving positive operating leverage and driving improved efficiency for the company.
As far as how I think that we're going to see that improvement efficiency come through it's really from 4 levers.
One is executing against our existing plan and making sure that we deliver that to the bottom line.
And then from that point forward showing a continued discipline to make sure that we remain focused on additional efficiency improvements not necessarily having stated targets of $200 million here or $150 million there but driving this is as a part of the core culture of the organization.
Second we need to get more productivity from our existing resources.
And that's both people and also our distribution and technology.
And so that will help drive some of the efficiency for us as well.
Right now our third item is our balance sheet efficiency.
We're at 84% loan-to-deposit ratio.
That is a real drag on us as far as the overall efficiency ratio and margin.
And we need to see improvement in that going forward.
And some of that improvement will come from the additional productivity I just talked about.
And the fourth component is interest rates.
Just like every other bank in the country these low rates are painful as it relates to our margin and also our efficiency ratio.
And when we think that returning to more normal rates will drive our efficiency ratio down somewhere between 300 and 400 basis points.
And so that will be a big plus for us.
So this isn't an endgame as far as our $200 million of cost saves.
It's just the start of a foundation and the team around here is very focused on delivering it.
We have weekly meetings and it doesn't go by without each of those meetings talking about some of the initiatives that we're taking on and the success that we are as far as executing against it.
And contrary to what you said I would believe that we are showing this drop to the bottom line.
In the second quarter what we've demonstrated that we got a $45 million improvement in expenses year-over-year backing up the impact of our acquisitions and these onetime cost.
So that on an annualized basis was $180 million.
And that's real money for us.
And we think that we will deliver existing future improvement from that as well.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
I was wondering if you guys could us a sense of just timing for how the remaining swap portfolio rolls off and what the asset sensitivity profile would look like without the swap portfolio.
Sure.
We had as of the end of the first quarter about $20 billion in interest rate swaps.
About $15 billion of that was related to our asset liability management.
That dropped by $4.4 billion this quarter.
And so as far as those that are usually -- are used to hedge our loan book it's down to about $11 billion.
The average life of that is 2.3 years.
And for that $11 billion to come off the balance sheet it would probably take that 2.5% asset sensitivity all the way up to about 8% would be my best guess.
So it's a meaningful impact to overall asset sensitivity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one quick one for Chris.
Can you just give us a little bit of color on what the investment banking pipeline looks like relative to last quarter and the same quarter last year? Yes.
Bryan as we look at it the investment banking pipeline as we look year-over-year is stronger than it was at this time a year ago.
So assuming -- what's interesting about our business model is when all the markets are working perfectly it's not as -- it's harder for us than when you get some volatility as we've had in this market because our business model enables us to go from one type of financing to the other.
So -- and then of course we go to market with senior-level people talking to these middle-market companies.
So our pipelines are up from a year ago.
And actually some of the turbulence that we've experienced in the market since the beginning of May is actually in many ways helpful to us.
And we'll take our next question from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the asset sensitivity and the increase of that sensitivity about 25% from a 2% hit to a 2.5% advantage in the sense of you increasing that asset sensitivity.
Was that in line with where rates were back in the second quarter? Do you feel like you're going to continue like you said if the swaps run off that number would explode up to 8%? Are you going to manage that at this level? Or are you going to kind of think about increasing asset sensitivity? Or do you have enough of a yield curve to start using some of that now? Yes Marty this is Don.
And as far as the asset sensitivity on an organic basis our balance sheet will migrate to much more asset-sensitive over time.
We do believe that we're going to be conservative in how we position the balance sheet.
That if you would've asked me 3 years ago where rates were going they were going nowhere but up.
And I've been wrong since then.
So I don't like taking big bets.
But we could see that asset sensitivity drift up a little bit.
Our expectation is over the next say 18 months we would start to see some of the short end of the curve maybe move up as well.
And so we'd like to be in a position to better benefit from that.
I think that the one advantage that we do have is given the relative size of that swap portfolio we have the ability to shift our asset sensitivity much quicker than many of our peers.
And so we think that we have a lever there that we can pull to be much more responsive to that overall effort.
Keep in mind too that that swap book has a fairly short life.
And our investment portfolio is fairly short in duration as well but it's at 3.2 years even with rates going up.
And so we intentionally manage the balance sheet so that we can capture the benefit of those rate increases fairly quickly.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Beth just a follow-up question on the efficiency ratio.
If you finish out the $200 million under my estimate it would add -- improve your efficiency ratio by another 2 percentage points down to around 63 which puts you right in the middle of your range.
So going forward I know you're still kind of talking or gauging it but when the momentum if you can get some revenue growth and start to see some of the other things loan growth coming back would you still feel like you would migrate towards the maybe lower end of that range over the next couple years? Yes Marty this is Beth.
As you've correctly noted part of what we committed when we unveiled this a year ago was that our intent was to be within a near term target of 65% on our efficiency ratio and that we would achieve that target by the first quarter of 2014.
As the time in the intervening quarters has played out we have realized our expense savings faster than we would have thought a year ago.
And I think you're seeing evidence of that as we are now already at the upper end of that 60% to 65%.
As we go into next year and we finalize our plans and as Don said we are instituting this notion of continuous improvement and the cultural change in terms of how we drive not only our cost structure but our productivity.
Those are the sorts of things that will drive further improvement within that range.
So I would tell you that with revenue momentum with productivity with cost efficiencies we are very much top of mind that 60% to 65% is a near term target and that we believe clearly obviously we're on a path to meet our commitment of being there by the first quarter of 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth when you look at your Tier 1 common ratio obviously it's very strong under the Basel III interpretation.
Now that we have that and you folks are not obviously in the top 8 banks what kind of Tier 1 common ratio are you comfortable running at since you're going to be required to hold 7? Maybe there's a small SIFI buffer of 25 basis points that will be assessed to KeyCorp.
But what number do you think is a comfortable level as you go forward? Well Gerard I'm going to also let Don augment my answer here.
I will tell you that clearly at 10.8 is our estimate if you were to phase in the Basel III rules as they've been released we well exceed the 7% floor as well as any SIFI buffer that would be appropriate.
I think we've always talked about our capital as both currently having an opportunity to continue to return to our shareholders what is more than needed even with a phase-in of the rules.
But we would also talk in terms that we would also always want to have our own operating buffer for a variety of reasons as well.
So we are well positioned.
I think Key is -- continues to be purely [ph] in its capital levels which includes a lot of flexibility for us in the future as we go through our plans.
But I'm going to let Don talk a little more about his thought into the ranges.
Sure Gerard.
And I think that we do have one piece of the puzzle has been solved for us with the new rules.
I would say that that's only one component.
So we really haven't stated what our objectives are as far as long-term capital position publicly.
One of the other variables that does impact that is the stress test.
And I think the stress test will probably result in larger buffers than what's publicly stated as part of Basel III.
And so we just need to make sure that we continue to understand what the impact is there and what level of capital that we feel comfortable operating at beyond that.
I will tell you that we all believe that our capital position is very strong and with the position that it's in at this point that we do have the ability to continue to return levels of earnings to the shareholders that are probably in excess of our peers just because we do believe that we're operating from a position of strength at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you guys expect to publicly disclose to us at some point what those levels will be when you take into account CCAR so the market will know that you're very comfortable at an 8.5% number or whatever it is? Yes.
We will disclose at some point in time more guidance.
But I don't know -- I wouldn't want to project the timing of that at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to all of this if your buyback -- obviously you received approval from CCAR.
Would you guys use a special dividend as a way of accelerating the return of capital to shareholders if you thought your stock price did get too high? My understanding and I haven't reviewed this since I've been here but my understanding is that the non-objection relates to a cash dividend component and then also to a share buyback and that the share buyback cannot be substituted for a onetime cash dividend.
LLC Research Division</strong> No no I agree.
But going forward for '14 and '15 you sit down and think about what you want to apply for.
Philosophically you guys think about a special dividend because I see your capital is going to be accumulating if growth remains modest very rapidly.
And would you consider that as an alternative for giving it back to shareholders? Yes.
With our 80% combined payout if you look at the total payout compared to the Street consensus at the time that the CCAR was announced that should translate to us continuing to leverage our capital position.
You can see in the last quarter that we did see slight declines in some of our capital ratios.
And it would be difficult for me to speculate what might be available to us under CCAR 2014.
So I'll go silent at this point.
And Gerard I would just add as you know that [indiscernible] there usually is more insight into what will create acceptable plans.
And it's really too soon to have any visibility into that.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Alan Straus with Schroders investment firm.
I think you did a good job controlling what you can control in this environment.
When your customers don't want to borrow money you don't want to just make bad loans.
But could you comment on the mortgage servicing business? Do you see any ability to get some loans out of those customers? Or is this really more just servicing and gaining deposits? So Alan it's Chris.
There's -- we have -- there is an opportunity when you service loans to convert some of those into borrowing customers.
Candidly in the past we have not been real successful in doing that.
Basically the economics stand on their own in terms of servicing rights.
Well I think the more interesting opportunity is this whole notion of this big pool where we're named special servicer.
And as named special servicer these will be loans that need to be restructured Alan where we don't have any capital but we can be the solution to the problem without having any exposure to it.
That I think is even a better -- a more interesting opportunity as we look forward.
Special servicing drives fee income so that you get paid for the various activities.
So it is an interesting book to continue to build special servicing rights.
And for example you could raise junior capital et cetera.
Right.
I mean your investment back should be teed up or are you hiring there in the investment bank on the special servicing side? Well Alan we haven't hired on the special servicing side per se but we clearly have ramped up on our real estate investment banking side over the last several years including hiring people that are experts in raising private capital.
In the real estate business it's often called JVs.
But we have a whole team of people that raise noncontrolled junior capital for developers.
So the answer is yes.
And Alan I would just add one of the things as we look at these various things they create opportunity for us to leverage what we think is a very distinctive platform.
So we have the capacity to do a number of these things without necessarily having to increase headcount as it goes back to this notion of how to think about efficiency that Don outlined that it's not just efficiency in cost but it's efficiency of your balance sheet and efficiency of your platform that we can put more throughput in it.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
I guess -- Don I apologize.
I guess I'm probably going to screw up this description.
But your old -- in your old role a couple years ago there was a swap transaction where if I understand it right that the benefit was kind of pulled forward.
There was a stair step down and the life was shortened and you end up more asset-sensitive at the end.
But the benefit of the swap income kind of shortens up.
Can you just remind us when you talk about levers you can pull on swaps is that something that's always available or was that transaction kind of unique to that point in time? That transaction was not unique.
It was basically terminating swaps early.
And then you can go back in and enter into new swaps over a longer duration.
So we did terminate some swaps early this quarter.
That of the $4.4 billion I believe $2.5 billion were early terminations or thereabouts.
And we decided not to go back in and enter into new swaps.
And so we allow the asset sensitivity to increase as a result of that.
And by being more proactive I think it's much easier for us to reposition our asset sensitivity by managing the overall swap book than it is for any other asset class on the balance sheet.
So for instance you can get more asset-sensitive by selling out of your investment portfolio.
But that will result in a gain or loss on the security.
And then you have to figure out what to do with those proceeds.
On the swaps you can just go ahead and terminate those and that automatically switches your balance sheet to being more asset-sensitive.
And so that's why I think that we're fortunate here in the way that Key has positioned its overall balance sheet and interest rate position to be able to leverage that swap book a little bit more disproportionately than many of our peers might be able to.
And you touched briefly on it but do you have a strong view right now on when rates are likely to go up? Or is it more just you felt there was no way rates were going down from where they were back in April and May? Brian I hope you have somebody with a better crystal ball than I do at this point because I think that we do believe that rates are going to go up at some point in time.
But right now I wouldn't see that occurring in '13 on the short end of the curve or even the first half of '14.
And that will be my personal expectation but we'll wait and see how things play out here over the next couple quarters.
And we'll take our next question from Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> A question for Beth.
Beyond closing branches can you talk about the realignment of the Community Bank? Was the decision more than just finding a way to cut costs? And any early data on customer attrition and does it give you more confidence or less confidence on continuing to look at the opportunity to close branches? Terry I'll also let Bill Koehler the President of our Community Bank add to some of my comments.
But as it relates to branch closures based on what we have accomplished and will through the balance of the year it will be about a 7% of our branches.
And what we've identified in these branches tend to be low profitability low traffic count.
And as we have closed and/or consolidated and many of them are near another branch of service we have experienced very little attrition well below what we would have expected when we modeled this a year ago.
So it does give us confidence that -- and as we rationalize both our ATM natural net ranges that this could be done in a way that is helpful to our cost initiatives our efficiency without material client impact.
And then with that I'm going to let Bill Koehler just give a couple headlines about what was done in the broader Community Bank alignment where both will make us more efficient more productive and more focused.
Terry this is Bill.
The realignment was really focused around 2 things.
Obviously efficiency but more importantly putting our teams in a better position to drive revenue growth through more focused execution of better defined strategies.
So to the -- so part of that related to creating one fully integrated national consumer franchise where we could focus our teams on more consistent sales execution throughout the platform.
And we think there's an opportunity to grow revenue there.
And the second was around refining our go-to-market strategies and value proposition with respect to little market business banking and private banking.
And there it's very much about identifying those clients who tend to typically be privately owned businesses their owners their employees and finding ways to target our broad capabilities in a more relevant way to those clients to drive better growth.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up from a question from earlier.
I guess Beth or Don when I look at the capital position now you're at 10.8% Tier 1 common under Basel III.
And someone mentioned this morning that they think that we could see a fairly decent pickup in M&amp;A in 2014 as we start to get a lot of the new regulations moving into place.
So I guess my question would be given that you've shown in the past the willingness to be acquisitive do you agree with that view that we could see a pickup across the industry? And what is your appetite given -- to do deals given the strong capital position? Ryan this is Beth.
We've always said that I think our capital priority has been fully stated that our capital is and does create advantage and opportunity for us.
It's obviously been able to support our organic growth platform it has been able to [indiscernible] dividend and share repurchase in order to return capital to our shareholders.
And then it also creates and has been able to assist us as we've opportunistically over the last year or so done a variety of acquisitions to augment product capabilities add to geographies and definitely [ph] create our scale and presence in the commercial servicing markets.
But with that I think this is another crystal ball question as to when M&amp;A will actually and actively pick up.
I think as we have gone through the last couple years it has been a pretty muted market and most transactions have been for very particular reasons.
We have said that with our geographic franchise as well as our differentiated platforms that we could be opportunistic and would evaluate if things are additive to our business model if they are additive to our client relationship philosophy and that they are good for our shareholders.
So as this too unrolls and unveils know that we would be opportunistic.
But I've also always said very very disciplined that it has to fit our business model to be good for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just in case I missed it earlier in the call.
In the 1 to 3 basis points of quarterly NIM compression is there an assumption that you will be redeploying some of the higher liquidity that you talked about earlier in the call? The assumption is modest.
What we did say in the call was that we expected loan growth to exceed deposit growth.
And so there would be some implication there that we would see some of that liquidity being used but that we're not reliant solely on that.
And we'll take our final question from John Moran with Macquarie Capital.
Really the last thing that I have left on the list here is just kind of circling back on the OpEx guidance.
Don just wanted to make sure that that guidance is inclusive of any incremental cost on the commercial servicing deal.
That is.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then the $20 million in charges on the efficiency program we would expect to see $20 million in both third quarter and fourth quarter or is that only -- are you only talking about third quarter there? That $20 million is really more a reflection of what our fourth quarter forecast would have shown but it wouldn't be out of line for third quarter as well.
And I'd like to turn it back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And again thank you all for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
And if you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Dillon at (216) 689-3133.
That concludes our remarks.
And thank you operator.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Ms.
Beth Mooney.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann; and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Turning to Slide 3.
Our results reflect another quarter of improved performance as we had positive trends in core revenue and expenses and our credit quality improved to levels we haven't seen since 2007.
We also continue to execute on our capital priorities.
Revenue benefited from solid loan growth driven by an 11% increase from the prior year in commercial financial and agricultural loans as well as improved trends in several of our fee-based businesses.
Importantly we continue to have success in acquiring and expanding relationships.
For example in our corporate investment banking and real estate areas we have generated 21% more revenue from new clients year-to-date versus the same period in 2012 reflecting our more targeted approach and the benefits of our distinctive business model.
As you have seen over the past several quarters this model has allowed us to capitalize on revenue opportunities.
Whether through execution in the capital markets when conditions are favorable or by offering on balance sheet alternatives our commitment remains the same: to do what's right for our clients.
We also continue to invest in our businesses as well as address areas that do not fit our relationship strategy.
In this quarter we have examples of both.
As announced we completed our commercial real estate servicing acquisition.
This brought in over $1 billion in low-cost escrow deposits and further leverages our existing platform.
We are now the third largest servicer of commercial and multifamily loans and the fifth largest special servicer of CMBS in the United States.
The sale of Victory Capital Management was also completed on July 31 resulting in an after-tax gain of $92 million.
Additional gain may be realized as the profits of receiving client consent continues through January of 2014.
We also made good progress on expenses this quarter.
Importantly we met our announced expense target that we set in June of 2012 to achieve annualized savings of $200 million.
This reflects the dedication and hard work of our entire team to make some difficult choices to reduce costs and make us a more efficient company.
As a result noninterest expense excluding efficiency-related charges was down 4% from the prior year.
And as Don will discuss our adjusted cash efficiency ratio was 64% this quarter at the upper end of our near-term goal of 60% to 65%.
Although this is an important milestone for us it is not an endpoint.
This is now part of our culture and we are already working to improve efficiency and productivity by identifying new opportunities to grow revenue and reduce and variabilize our expenses.
I'll finish with a couple of comments on capital.
During the third quarter we repurchased $198 million in common shares as we continue to execute on our current repurchase authorization and our Tier 1 common ratio remained above 11%.
We will remain disciplined in the way we manage our strong capital position and stay consistent with our stated priorities of supporting organic growth dividend share repurchase and opportunistic growth.
Overall it was a very good quarter for Key and it positions us well through the end of the year and as we move into 2014.
We are optimistic that progress is being made in Washington and we continue to encourage our leaders to work together to find a solution that is in the best interest of our country.
It would be regrettable to reverse the progress we've made in the recovery as well as the progress we've made to regain client investor and global confidence in our financial system.
However at Key our focus remains the same and that is to execute on our business model drive and invest for growth become more efficient and productive and to be disciplined in the way we manage our capital.
Now let me turn the presentation over to Don for some details on our third quarter results.
Don? Thank you Beth.
Slide 5 provides highlights from the company's third quarter 2013 results.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.25 per common share for the third quarter compared to $0.21 for the second quarter of 2013 and $0.22 for the third quarter of 2012.
I'll cover many of these results in my remarks later so let's turn on to Slide 6.
Third quarter results include a number of significant items which have been detailed for you on this slide.
First results reflect the impact of early termination of leveraged leases.
These transactions reduced net interest income by $8 million and increase noninterest income by $23 million resulting in a net gain of $15 million or $0.02 per share.
As with the prior lease terminations the gains associated with these transactions were not taxable.
The total tax impact of leveraged lease terminations was $13 million or an incremental $0.01 per common share.
This lowered our tax rate by about 4% this quarter.
I would expect our tax rate to return to a more normal level next year in the range of 26% to 28% on a GAAP basis.
Next we incurred $41 million or $0.03 per share of costs associated with our efficiency initiative including pension settlements this quarter.
The pension settlement of $25 million recorded as lump sum distributions exceeded a threshold that triggered the recognition of a curtailment loss.
While we could have additional settlement losses in the fourth quarter it is not expected to repeat in 2014.
Within discontinued operations we also realized a pretax gain of $146 million from the sale of Victory.
After tax this gain equated to $92 million with the cash portion totaling to $72 million.
Importantly this represents the amount of the gain we have realized to date.
And as Beth pointed out an additional gain may be realized resulting from client consents received through January of 2014.
Also included in discontinued operations we recorded an after-tax charge of $48 million related to the fair value of loans and securities in Key's 10 education loan securitization trusts.
This charge resulted from additional market information about projected trends for default and recovery rates that became available during the quarter.
Based on this information and Key's internal analysis certain assumptions related to valuing the loans in these securitization trusts were adjusted.
Turning on to Slide 7.
Average total loans for the third quarter were up $575 million or an annualized 4% compared to the second quarter of 2013 and up $2.6 billion or 5% compared to the year ago quarter.
Loan growth continues to benefit from Key's focus on targeted segments and the capabilities we're able to provide commercial clients.
Our loan growth outpaced industry measures in the third quarter and the quality of our loan originations continues to be high and consistent with our moderate risk profile.
While clients remain cautious our outlook for loan growth remains consistent with our prior guidance of mid-single digit year-over-year growth driven by CF&amp;A lending.
Continuing on to Slide 8.
From the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding foreign branch balances were up $494 million from the second quarter and up $3.4 billion from 1 year ago.
Deposit growth from both the prior quarter and year ago quarter was primarily due to an increase in demand in interest-bearing commercial deposits and higher escrow balances from Key's recent commercial real estate servicing acquisition.
Over the past year our mix of deposits has significantly changed with CDs declining and low-cost transaction accounts increasing 10%.
As a result year-over-year deposit costs declined from 38 to 22 basis points.
Turning on to Slide 9.
Our taxable equivalent net interest income was $584 million for the third quarter compared to $586 million for the second quarter and $578 million for the third quarter 1 year ago.
Results in both the third quarter 2013 and the prior year reflect the impact of early termination of leveraged leases.
These transactions reduced net interest income by $8 million in the third quarter of this year and by $13 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impact of leveraged lease terminations net interest income in the third quarter of this year would be slightly higher than a year ago period and 4% higher than the second quarter on an annualized basis.
For the third quarter the company's net interest margin was 3.11% or 3.15% when adjusted for the 4 basis point negative impact of the leveraged lease terminations.
This compares to 3.13% for the second quarter.
As you can see on this slide the net interest margin this quarter was negatively impacted by lower earning asset yields offset by lower funding costs.
Over the next couple of quarters we expect the net interest margin to be relatively stable to the reported third quarter level with potential downward pressure dependent on levels of liquidity.
We also maintained our modest asset-sensitive position.
Importantly the use of interest rate swaps provides us with the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate risk position.
While Key along with other asset-sensitive banks generally benefit from a rise in both short-term and long-term rates the duration and characteristics of Key's loan and investment portfolio position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
We anticipate for the next few quarters loan growth will exceed deposit growth which should result in a relatively stable net interest income.
Slide 10 shows a summary of noninterest income which accounts for approximately 44% of our total revenues.
Noninterest income in the third quarter was $459 million up from $429 million in the second quarter but below the $518 million in the third quarter of last year.
Importantly the third quarter of 2012 included gains of $54 million associated with the redemption of trust preferred securities.
As I mentioned previously we had leveraged lease terminations in both the third quarter of 2013 and the prior year which led to the gain of $23 million in the third quarter of this year and $39 million in the prior year.
Adjusting for gains from the trust preferred securities and the leveraged lease terminations noninterest income in the third quarter was up 3% from the prior year and up 7% analyzed from the prior quarter.
Many of our core fee income categories have shown strength through the third quarter.
Investment banking and debt placement fees continue to grow and are up 29% on a rolling 4-quarter average basis as we continue to do more business with our commercial clients and win market share.
Corporate services is also -- have also performed well up 13% from the prior year.
This includes fees from letters of credit foreign exchange and derivative trading among others.
And cards and payments income is up 16% compared to the same period 1 year ago reflecting our investment in and our focus on payment products including our reentry in the credit cards during the third quarter of last year.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our noninterest expense for the third quarter was $716 million including $41 million in charges related to the efficiency initiative and pension settlement.
As discussed earlier the $25 million pension settlement was triggered by high levels of lump sum distributions from the plan.
While we may have additional settlement losses in the fourth quarter we do not expect this to repeat in 2014.
Adjusting for these charges expenses were down 4% from the prior year and up slightly from the prior quarter as we increased marketing expenses related to our client acquisition and borrowing campaigns.
During the quarter we closed 8 more branches and continued with other efficiency initiative implementation plans.
As Beth commented earlier we achieved our target by capturing $207 million in annual expense savings.
We plan to provide a final count of our cost savings associated with our efficiency initiative when we announce our full year results in January.
Going forward from that point the savings from our continuous improvement efforts will be embedded within our expense run rate and will help drive our efficiency ratio lower.
We have made a lot of progress over the last 5 to 6 quarters but there still is a lot more we can do to improve our overall productivity.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our net charge-offs declined to $37 million or 28 basis points of average loans in the third quarter.
This continues to be below our targeted range and is the lowest level since the first quarter of 2007.
You may recall that in the third quarter of 2012 Key along with other banks received updated regulatory guidance on consumer loans which is -- which is what led to elevated charge-offs in the year ago quarter.
Adjusting for this guidance net charge-offs were still down by 42% from the prior year.
Total commercial loan net charge-offs this quarter remained low at 5 basis points of average loans and recoveries were up $12 million or 41% from the prior quarter.
The breakdown of asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on Slide 19 in the Appendix.
At September 30 2013 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.62% of period-end loans and 160% coverage of our nonperforming loans.
We anticipate that net charge-offs will remain at or below the lower end of our targeted range for the next few quarters and for provision expense to be near the same level.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our tangible common equity ratio estimated -- and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at September 30 at 9.93% and 11.11% respectively.
Earlier in the quarter regulators approved the final rule for implementing the Basel III regulatory capital standards.
The mandatory compliance day for Key begins in January of 2015 with transitional provisions extending to January of 2019.
Our current estimates of Tier 1 common equity as calculated under the final rule was 10.6% which exceeds the fully phased-in minimum requirement.
As Beth mentioned during the third quarter we also repurchased $198 million of shares of our common stock.
This amount includes repurchases related to the cash portion of the net after-tax gain from the sale of Victory.
Moving on to Slide 14.
This is a summary of our near-term outlook and expectations which are generally consistent with our prior guidance and assume an orderly and timely resolution of current issues in Washington.
As I stated earlier we expect average loans to continue to grow year-over-year in the mid-single-digit range and our net interest margin to remain relatively stable with our reported level this quarter.
Our net interest margin may be impacted further by liquidity levels and competitive and/or economic environment.
Revenue trends over time should also benefit from continued growth in our fee-based businesses.
We continue to anticipate expenses in the range of $680 million to $700 million in the fourth quarter and remain committed to achieving a cash efficiency ratio of 60% to 65%.
While i've reached our $200 million expense savings target we will continue to identify additional savings opportunities.
And it's important to keep in mind that there is variability in our expense levels related to items such as incentive payouts tide to production reserves for unfunded loan commitments and seasonal factors.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs at or below our targeted range of 60 -- 40 to 60 basis points.
And we expect our loan loss provision to be near the same level of net charge-offs.
And finally capital management will remain a priority including continuing to execute on our remaining share repurchase authorization of $187 million.
With that I'll close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the efficiency initiative with you guys now being above the $200 million and you're now in your targeted range moving forward how much do you think is left to drive additional improvements in the efficiency ratio? Could there be another $50 million? $100 million? Or is that too aggressive given what you've already realized? This is Don and I'll go ahead and take the first crack at that.
As far as the additional expense savings we will continue to target areas of opportunity.
We're going to be much more focused on driving positive operating leverage which will drive us to the lower end of that near-term target of 60% to 65%.
We think that's appropriate for now that we clearly will identify specific areas.
But right now we're not planning on having any named initiatives or named programs that would target a specific dollar amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one follow-up Don.
You guys had good C&amp;I loan growth in the quarter where other banks are seeing declines or talking about borrowers being very cautious.
What are you seeing on the pipeline? And do you expect strong C&amp;I to continue through year end? Steve it's Chris Gorman here.
We -- our pipelines look pretty good.
As we look forward both on the fee side and on the loan side and we compare kind of where we are year-over-year where we were this time last year we feel good about it.
And we think it's a direct result of being pretty focused about and disciplined about who we're targeting doing business with.
So as you know we're not necessarily focused necessarily in growing loans.
What we're focused on is growing clients and expanding relationships.
And as we look at the pipelines that have come out of that we feel pretty good about it.
Steve this is Bill.
On the commercial side we would say -- I would say something similar.
We have seen continued moderate improvement in the consumer which has helped us over the past few quarters as our consumer loan volumes continue to improve.
And we'll go next to Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just want to get some color on some of the kind of productivity enhancements that you guys are going to try to start working on and have been working on but especially as we look into 2014 and what that might mean in terms of kind of revenue growth initiatives as well? Steve this is Beth Mooney.
I will go ahead and give a couple thoughts in that regard.
We have been definitely thinking about and as we've talked about balancing our ability to become more efficient and productive with our ability to invest and support revenue growth which is incredibly important that we do both.
So as we look into 2014 we see opportunities as Don outlined to continue to become more cost effective and work at additional efficiency.
But we also look at opportunities to invest in additional client-facing people and relationship managers as we see success in our businesses as we are growing CF&amp;A loans.
So we continue to think we can invest to acquire and deepen relationships.
We've talked about technology as an enabler and making sure that we remain competitive within mobile and digital supported by further branch rationalization and continuing to make sure our consumer segments are more efficient.
We also see opportunity to look at potentially adding and expanding to our product capability such as credit cards and payments.
And you've seen us do a number of things this year both through the commercial real estate servicing as well as the exit of Victory that shows that we're very much trying to keep within our business model of a relationship strategy that we believe is differentiated and pull both levers of investing and creating more productivity for revenue as well as becoming a more efficient and cost-productive company.
Research Division</strong> That's perfect.
And then if you could -- as you look forward into 2014 what might some of your priorities be to accomplish by the end of that year? Priorities to accomplish by the end of the year I would tell you is I think as we talked about is the continuing efficiency and productivity both of our income statement as well as our balance sheet.
We've talked about the mix of assets and our opportunities within our cost of liabilities.
We also think we could become more efficient within our operations.
And we also want to make sure we invest in our businesses for growth and remain very disciplined in capital.
We think that we've had a good opportunity this year to return capital to our shareholders as well as at the margin have a few opportunities to utilize capital and enhance our capabilities and products.
And we'll go next to Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just want to clarify.
On the termination of the leveraged leases Slide 6 you have the impact of $15 million after-tax.
But in the footnote and I think you referenced this Don the $13 million of tax benefit.
Should we be adding those numbers up to think about the total impacts of $28 million of I guess technically onetime gain related to the leveraged leases? That's an accurate description Ken.
Yes the $13 million is incremental.
It's not necessarily just specific to that transaction but as a result of it.
So you're right.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just a follow-up question.
In terms of your excess liquidity I was a little surprised when you were talking about the NIM or the downward pressure due to excess liquidity.
I'm kind of curious what your expectations or your outlook is for your liquidity position.
Like do you expect to get much more? Is there something that we don't know about that would drive up your excess? Yes Ken that's a great question.
I think in this environment we're not exactly sure what might happen as far as changes that could impact that.
But right now our guidance is based on our loan growth slightly exceeding our deposit growth.
But there are a couple of things that could impact that.
That if the economy slows we could see less loan growth.
We could also see greater inflows to Key.
And one thing to keep in mind too that is part of our commercial real estate servicing business that while we have a very stable base of deposits there there might be temporary flows that could result in increases to overall liquidity position which could impact our net interest margin percentage but not have a significant impact on the overall net interest income.
And we'll go next to Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> It's maybe a silly question but could you explain to me sort of what it is that triggers the early termination of leveraged leases? Is this basically like a loan prepayment with prepayment penalty income? Or what is it exactly? Yes this is customer driven and would allow similar to what you said as far as an early prepayment.
But it's not necessarily a penalty that's triggered there.
It's just the way that the revenues are recognized.
And by the early termination there are certain things that are accelerated as far as the recognition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the question about tax benefit there was answered.
But even when I sort of adjust that $13 million out looks like your tax rate was 24% 25% kind of below what you're expecting for next year.
I'm curious what the other factors are there this quarter for tax rate? And then how you're thinking about the tax rate in the fourth quarter? Yes as far as next year you're right.
We're providing guidance of 26% to 28%.
That's about where we were on a GAAP basis through the second quarter that we said that this transaction had an impact of about 4 percentage points.
And this was a primary adjustment that occurred.
But the remaining adjustments occurred from essentially recognition of additional tax credits that were taken in the third quarter.
So we do believe the core rate is 26% to 28%.
And fourth quarter should be slightly higher than the third quarter but in line with the full year expectation.
And we'll go next to Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on your comment and your ability to flex your interest rate risk position through the use of swaps.
And is there any way that you can help us think about the puts and takes of the swap income that you could potentially give up in exchange for x percent more of asset sensitivity? Great question Erika.
As far as the swaps we note that we have about $14 billion worth of swaps about $9 billion of which we use to manage our overall rate risk position.
If we increase or decrease that we tend to have a fairly short average life for those swaps than the 2- to 3-year time period.
And so the average spread there is about 70 basis points.
So for every $1 billion of swaps you would be giving up 70 basis points of future income associated with that swaps on a near-term basis.
But it does help reduce our over -- increase excuse me our overall asset sensitivity.
And Joe it's about 0.5 point for every $1 billion? What's the impact there? That sounds about right.
Erika the way to think about it is simply take the current swap curve and roughly the 2- to 3-year maturity off of short-term LIBOR and that differential in spread times whatever volume you want to use is a good proxy for an income differential.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
And just my second follow-up question is as -- clearly you are well in excess of all the regulatory capital hurdles that you need to adhere to.
As you prepare for the CCAR next year do you expect a backup in long rates to be included in the severely adverse case? And have you modeled your capital return and capital return potential asks for more stringent interest rate risk tests on the bond portfolio? Last year's part of the CCAR process the -- one of the stress scenarios did assume a rate increase to see what the impact would be on your bond portfolio from that.
One of the benefits we have of being a CCAR bank but not being a [indiscernible] is the ability to go ahead and opt in or out associated with the OCI impact to capital.
And so even though it could have an impact on TCE we have the flexibility up through the first quarter of '15 to make the determination as to whether or not we want to include or exclude that impact.
And I think that provides us with a little bit more cushion than many of the larger banks might have to deal with.
And I would just add Erika too that we have talked in the past that our portfolio is also intentionally very short average duration of around 3.6 years.
And so when you look at our mix of investments that are in that portfolio we have what I would call less risk and less extension risk than many other portfolio.
And we'll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
My first question is on the other fee line.
So that was down $2 million quarter-over-quarter which looked a little bit light considering the commercial servicing deal closed at the end of 2Q.
Can you just comment on if there's anything noncore that ran through that line this quarter? And what the pickup from the commercial servicing deal was in the third quarter? We've not provided a lot of detail as far as the fee income impact from the commercial servicing deal.
There are increased fees that we do receive but part of the real benefit really is coming from the $1 billion in additional core deposits we're getting from that relationship.
As far as the other income category there really aren't any other significant large unusual items going through this quarter but we did have some small incremental gains last quarter.
But I would suggest that that is more of an ongoing level at the current quarter amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my next question is for Chris.
You mentioned that pipelines both for commercial fees and loans were pretty -- in pretty good shape.
But I'm just wondering if you've seen any change in customer appetite to drawing on lines or whatnot over the past couple of weeks just in light of what's going on in D.C.? Bryan what we've seen over the last couple of weeks has been fairly consistent.
I think most of our clients have been very cautious.
I think there's been a lot of uncertainty.
We've seen a willingness interestingly enough to look at strategic alternatives but not really a willingness to invest in people or property plant and equipment.
And I would say that is unchanged over the last couple of weeks.
The only new data point I have for you recently as I know a couple of our clients that wanted to roll over CP 30-day CP and this is specifically yesterday they could have rolled 45 but they couldn't roll 30-day.
But I am not seeing our clients really adjust yet to some of the uncertainty that's been generated in Washington.
And we'll go next to Keith Murray with ISI Financial.
Research Division</strong> Just on the fourth quarter expenses.
So the core number for the third quarter looked like around $675 million.
You mentioned that marketing was up in the quarter.
When we think about the guidance for the fourth quarter that you gave us what's the right core number? I know there'll be noise in there related to efficiency et cetera but what's the right way to think about the core? Consistent with our guidance last quarter that $680 million to $700 million does include onetime transition or severance type of costs.
And so we had estimated that somewhere in the $15 million to $20 million range.
And so that would be included in that $680 million to $700 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just conceptually if you looked at your ROA target this quarter you guys are sort of right in the middle of the range the 100 to 125.
Do you think about the ROE the annualized sort of $0.26 or so that you're in this quarter to around a 9% or so ROE? If you think about the future and if you get up to the 125 basis point target let's say from an ROE point of view how much upside do you see? Do you feel like you have to grow the overall balance sheet to sort of increase leverage to get the ROE to a more meaningful target range? I know it's tough.
Given the CCAR you probably won't be able to return over 100% of net income so capital will grow.
Just trying to get a framework of how you guys think about the ROE.
No I think that you hit on some of the challenges there.
And I don't know that we want to speculate as to what kind of additional leverage can we get off the balance sheet.
We do believe that our balance sheet can become more efficient than it is today.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio is in the low 80% type of range and it's 82% or 83% and our target there is 90% to 100%.
And so by making the balance sheet more efficient it should drive a stronger margin for us.
Combine that with the benefits from increased interest rates we think that 1.25% type of ROA range should increase reflecting the impact of interest rates and it'll allow us to get a stronger return on equity.
We'll go next to Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> The strength in the investment banking and debt placement fees could you talk about what industry verticals those have been coming from? And would those be in similar targeted segments as the commercial bank? What I'm getting at is are you continuing to see a better link between both those parts of Key and generating both loans and now a nice fee income as well? Terry it's Chris.
Clearly the growth that we've enjoyed has come specifically from our targeting of certain industries.
And you look at things like real estate our industrial business our growing health care business we've actually had a lot of lift in our consumer and our energy business.
So it's really very focused in the areas that we're in.
And that's where our pipelines are as well.
Now as it relates to our coordination with the community bank there similarly we are focusing where we're really strong in those industry groups.
And so those trends we looked to continue as well.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up.
Part of the third quarter loan growth your strength in loan growth was home equity which is somewhat seasonal.
I think you hinted that in the press release.
Would you expect to see some slowing in Q4 if home equity does not replicate the growth they had in Q3? So Terry this is Bill.
We would see home equity slowing down a little bit into the fourth quarter.
We have seen -- we're pleased that our home equity loan origination extended into the summer longer that it has in the past.
And we think that is a good indication that as I said earlier the consumer is getting stronger.
And we think that's good for the business and the economy long term but the fourth quarter is always slower.
We'll go next to the Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question I have is regarding the capital ratios.
Obviously your Basel III Tier 1 common ratio is very strong with the estimate.
Some of the banks JPMorgan and Citi in particular had given us their level that they expect to manage that which in their cases will be 10% 10.5%.
Do you guys have a level where you want to carry that Basel III Tier 1 common ratio that you want to manage that you could give to us? This is Don.
And I would just like to add to that that we are one step further as far as being able to define what we believe is the appropriate capital level with the release of the final rules.
We think a more appropriate time period for us to get more specific as far as our operating range would be after this next year's CCAR process and making sure that we have a full appreciation for what to expect prospectively on the impact in the capital requirements.
Unlike the large banks that you had referenced it's not as clear to us as far as what kind of capital buffer would be required for an organization that's in the lower end of the CCAR buckets.
And we want to make sure that we can fully assess the impact of the stress testing and base the capital requirements with the results from that next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So once you have confidence on what the numbers that you're going to be expected to carry all the regional banks not just you guys you guys will disclose to us at some point in the future where you're comfortable relative to those requirements? It would be our expectation to disclose that at some point down the road.
And I wouldn't suggest that being in January of next year but I think it will be appropriate for us to establish a target there I guess.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then on the loan growth.
You guys had obviously nice year-over-year loan growth double digit.
But the sequential annualized number as you pointed out has slowed down.
Is there been a slowdown with your customers in loan demand? Or what's caused the slowdown on an annualized basis relative to that year-over-year basis number that you gave us? Gerard this is Bill.
We've had -- the comments that were made earlier by Chris about our clients being a little more cautious and watching the developments and watching -- looking for more visibility with respect to tax and health care policy all those things contribute to an environment where our clients are less comfortable investing especially in people.
So we have seen that and I would say that has contributed to some of the slowing down in the sequential growth.
And Gerard I would just add that I think it's a little bit in some ways a tale of 2 cities that if you look at it by segment in terms of the size of the company I think the smaller businesses to midsized businesses which would be typically in our Community Bank have been more cautious than what we have seen in some of our targeted clients that's in the Corporate Bank.
And we'll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Tom in for Mike.
My first question's related to just generally on loans and I may have missed this.
Did you see any utilization rate changes on the commercial side? And then on the CRE side just incremental commentary.
The competition's picked up there.
What are you seeing and what are you targeting? So Tom it's Chris Gorman.
A couple of things.
First of all with respect to utilization utilization picked up slightly quarter-over-quarter.
But in general there has not been any market change in utilization for some time x some activity that occurred late last year that was tax driven.
So that's point one.
With respect to what's going on in the real estate market we feel like we have a pretty good eye on what's going on in real estate.
We have generated -- we've actually generated fundings of about $30.5 billion this year and only about 13% actually did we put on our balance sheet.
So our business model is such that we sort of see both the syndication market we see what's going on in the equity market the debt market and of course the commercial mortgage banking business.
There is no question that as it is across-the-board competition has increased.
And we've seen some compression of spreads both in the real estate business and frankly across all businesses.
But for us and our approach where we're really focused on owners of real estate and we're focused on mid-cap REITs we see plenty of opportunity as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Excellent that helps a lot.
And then just as my -- as a follow-up a little more technical of a question though.
Just generally share buybacks have been on a good trend.
Your basic share count declined by about 11 million 12 million this quarter but I noticed a $10 million increase actually on the diluted side.
Is there anything that triggered that out of the ordinary? And I mean I'm just used to the spread being a little tighter on those 2.
Yes as the price fluctuates here you're going to see changes in the impact of stock options and other diluted shares.
So that's really what's driving it.
And beyond that it's just the timing of the actual share repurchases and when they occurred.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Nick Karzon for Craig.
I guess first on the $41 million of efficiency charges I think I saw $25 million on the pension settlement and $6 million in severance.
Can you help us think about which bucket's the remainder -- the remaining $10 million were in? Yes they really are spread in the number of categories including occupancy costs professional fees and other.
And much of it relates to the costs associated with the additional branch closures and also some contract renegotiations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up I think you mentioned $15 million to $20 million of onetime charges are included in the fourth quarter guidance.
Is that just including efficiency initiative charges or would that -- does that also include some portion of pension settlement as well? No that's primarily the efficiency initiative charges.
Not sure how much we would have associated with pension.
Since we did trigger that recognition threshold any lump sum distributions that would occur in the fourth quarter would also trigger an additional loss.
But we think it would be much smaller than the year-to-date catch-up that we had for $25 million in the current quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth I wanting to ask a little bit about the capital ratios.
As you've been able to deploy a good portion of your earnings your capital ratios have actually been able to drift lower.
Do you still think you'll be able to continue to kind of push at that level of 90% to 100% of your earnings in total payout going into the foreseeable future? Marty this is Beth as you asked for.
And that would be reflective of trying to have a point of view on what 2014 CCAR guidance and rules and opportunities will be.
We've been pleased this year that we were able to at an analyst average have an 80% payout as well as the opportunity to return the net after-tax gain of Victory.
So you're right we've had a good year in our ability to return capital to shareholders and that is one of our capital priorities.
But I think it is too soon to have a view of what the 2014 CCAR will be.
But it is incredibly important to us to continue to look at our dividend and share repurchase and return of capital to our shareholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up to that.
Is there any re kind of composition in the sense that you were a little bit conservative on the dividend and pushed the share repurchase as your stock price was below tangible value.
As that flipped going into next year would you redistribute your priorities between dividends and share repurchase? And again at this point in time we have not gotten the 2014 CCAR guidance nor started working and formulating our response in terms of what will be the mix that we request for the return to our shareholders.
So again premature but something obviously that we will look at as we submit our application in January.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly on the -- we've accomplished the efficiency initiative that we started off talking about over 1 year ago.
And now are there follow-through projects that are coming out? What is the focused kind of to start pushing efficiencies initiatives to still get some benefit out of that? As we've said we did realize our $200 million targeted goal.
And Don mentioned in his comments many of those will be fully realized in our run rate in 2014.
We do have some initial projects that we are working on and we've also introduced a very robust Lean Six Sigma process into our company to look at end-to-end processes as well as client experience.
So we look at those opportunities and middle office opportunities in terms of how certain transactions and processes are done as well as we continue to look at organizationally how we do things in various areas of the banks that could possibly be done in more efficient ways as well as continuing to say what in terms of both our staffing our distribution and how we are aligned and organized can we do to be more effective and efficient.
Marty it's Chris.
The only thing I would add to what Beth has mentioned is this is really a cultural change for us.
And so while we haven't quantified it and there's certainly no name to the program we will continue across all of our businesses to look for efficiencies and my guess is we'll find some.
We talk every earnings day to our broader employees after we do this call and that is very much a theme that the highest performing company this is a way they do business culturally what they do year in and year out.
We think we've gotten a lot of discipline we've gotten a lot of rigor we've learned a lot in our ability to meet these objectives.
We will continue to expect this of ourselves outside of a named program but a way to certainly support our plan for growth as well as becoming more efficient and productive.
LLC Research Division</strong> So then the momentum you feel kind of coming out of this culture change and initiative would make you feel at least directionally that you should see further improvements and efficiencies are likely? We are requiring that of ourselves.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Beth Mooney for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And we thank you all for taking time from your schedule today to participate in our call.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vernon Patterson or Kelly Dillon at (216) 689-3133.
And that concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator and good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are the leaders of Key Corporate Bank and Key Community Bank Chris Gorman and Bill Koehler.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A discussion are our Chief Risk Officer Bill Hartmann and our Treasurer Joe Vayda.
On Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Turning now to Slide 3 I'll start with some comments on the year and then turn it over to Don who will discuss our quarterly results.
2013 was a good year for our company.
We acquired and expanded relationships in our targeted client segments invested in our businesses improved efficiency and returned peer leading capital to our shareholders and all of this was reflected in the performance of our stock last year.
On the left-hand side of the slide are three focus areas that we identified at the beginning of the year optimizing and growing revenue improving efficiency and effectively managing capital.
We made meaningful progress in each of these areas.
First I'll begin with revenue.
Despite the continued low interest rate environment and slow economic recovery core revenue trends remained relatively stable in 2013.
Excluding the gain from the redemption of our trust preferred securities in 2012 revenue was up 1% for the year.
Importantly we grew both consumer and commercial loans.
Total average balance is up 5% in 2013.
The primary driver was commercial financial and agricultural loans which were up 12% for the year and continued to outpace the industry growth rate.
Net interest income was up 3% from the prior year and we had positive momentum in a number of our fee-based businesses.
One example is investment banking and debt placement fees which grew for the fifth consecutive year.
We also benefited from the investments we have been making in our businesses.
For example cards and payments income was up 20% from 2012 reflecting the successful acquisition of our [KeyBank] [ph] branded credit card portfolio and mortgage servicing revenue more than doubled from 2012 as we built scale from our acquisition of servicing portfolio and special servicing business.
The second focus area was efficiency.
In June of 2012 we committed to reduce annual expenses by $150 million $200 million by the first quarter of 2014.
In the third quarter of last year we reported that we had exceeded the high end of this range one quarter head of our original goal.
Through the end of the year we implemented $241 million in annualized savings.
Our actions included reducing and realigning our staff consolidating branch locations as we optimize our distribution channel.
And in total we consolidated 81 locations or approximately 8% of our franchise since the launch of our efficiency initiative.
And just as important the achievement of our cost savings is the cultural change that have taken place within our company.
Efficiency and positive operating leverage are becoming part of the fabric of Key.
Leaders and employees throughout Key are focused every day on continuing to perform against these important objectives.
We are committed to maintaining this type of discipline going forward without the need for named programs in the future.
Finally capital management.
We remain disciplined in managing our peer-leading capital.
Adhering to our capital priorities we continue to invest organically increase our dividend by 10% and repurchased $474 million in common shares during 2013.
The result is a payout ratio 76% for the year which we believe places us among the top companies in our peer group while maintaining some of the strongest capital levels in the industry.
Overall it was a very meaningful year for Key including the successful execution of a number of strategic imperatives.
We continue to invest in our business to drive organic growth as well as adding commercial mortgage servicing fully integrating our credit card and payment platform.
We continue to sharpen our strategic focus by divesting parts of business that did not fit such as Victory Capital Management and we met the commitments we made through our efficiency initiative to reduce expenses and lower our efficiency ratio.
I am proud of our team and I am proud of our performance.
In of 2014 we will sustain our momentum and drive performance by continuing to focus on three priorities.
The first is driving positive operating leverage by acquiring and expanding client relationships investing in our businesses and continuing to improve efficiency and productivity.
The next is maintaining a moderate risk profile and a balanced approach to risk and rewards and the final priority is remaining disciplined in the way we manage capital and executing on our stated capital priorities.
Now I'll turn it over to Don who will comment on our fourth quarter results and outlook for 2014.
Don? Thanks Beth.
Slide 5 provides highlights for the company's fourth quarter 2013 results.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.26 per common share for the fourth quarter.
This compared to $0.25 for the third quarter of 2013.
Our results include charges related to our previously announced efficiency initiative and pension settlement of $0.02 in the fourth quarter compared to $0.03 for the third quarter.
I'll cover many of these results in my remarks when I'll turn to Slide 6.
Loan growth has remained a very positive story and reflects our distinctive business model and more targeted approach.
Average total loans for the fourth quarter were up of $337 million or an annualized 3% compared to third quarter of 2013 and up $1.7 billion or 3% compared to year ago quarter.
Our growth was driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans across Key's business segments.
Much of the activity occurred towards the end of the quarter resulting in larger increases in period end than average loan balances.
In the fourth quarter period end balances grew 2% from the prior quarter or 6% annualized which outpaced the industry growth.
In the fourth quarter total commitments were up while utilization was relatively stable.
Our outlook for loan growth in 2014 remained consistent with our prior guidance of mid-single-digit full year growth driven by CF&amp;A.
A change in the pace of the economic recovery could impact client demand and loan growth relative to our current expectations.
Continuing to Slide 7 on the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding foreign branch balances were up $2.4 billion from the third quarter and up $4.7 billion from one year ago.
Deposit growth from both the prior quarter and the year ago quarter was primarily due to the higher escrow balances commercial mortgage servicing and continued client inflows particularly in business and public sector clients.
This growth in deposits resulted in similar increases in our short-term investment portfolio which increased $2.8 billion in the quarter.
This increased liquidity was the reason for the 10-basis point reduction in our net interest margin.
Over the past year our mix of deposits has significantly changed the CD is declining and low-cost transaction accounts increasing 11%.
As a result year-over-year deposit cost declined from 31 basis points to 20 basis points.
Turning to Slide 8 our taxable equivalent net interest income was $589 million for the fourth quarter compared to $584 million for the third quarter and $607 million for the fourth quarter one year ago.
Results in both the fourth and third quarters of 2013 reflect the impact of the early termination of leverage leases.
These transactions reduced net interest income by $8 million in the third quarter and by $3 million in the fourth quarter.
For the fourth quarter our net interest margin was 3.01% which was down 10 basis points from the prior quarter.
This was in line with the guidance we provided in December which reflected higher levels of liquidity from escrow balances primarily related to the acquisition of the mortgage servicing business from Bank of America and Berkadia.
The higher level of liquidity was reflected in the $2.8 billion increase in our short-term investments.
This increase liquidity level reduced our net interest margin by 11 basis points.
In 2014 we expect the net interest income to be relatively stable with reported level in 2013.
We had also expected to maintain modest asset sensitivity.
The use of interest rate swaps provides us with the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate risk position.
The duration and characteristics of Key's loan and investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide 9 shows a summary of noninterest income accounts for approximately 43% of our total revenue.
Noninterest income the fourth quarter was $453 million down $6 million from the third quarter but above the $439 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
As I mentioned previously we had leveraged lease terminations in both the fourth and third quarters of 2013 which provided a benefit of $4 million in the fourth quarter and $23 million in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of leveraged leases noninterest income would be up 3% from the prior quarter.
As Beth highlighted we are also benefiting from investments in many of our core businesses.
For example cards and payments income is up 5% compared with same period one year ago up 20% full year compared to 2012.
This is reflective of our focus on and our commitment to providing clients with the full suite of payment products.
Turning to slide 10 our noninterest expense for the fourth quarter was $712 million including $24 million in charges related to our efficiency initiative and pension settlement.
Adjusted for the efficiency and pension settlement charges expenses were down 4% from the prior year.
This level was above our guidance for the quarter due to the higher than expected charges related to efficiency initiative as well as higher than expected technology cost operational losses and expenses related the share price performance and our compensation plans.
Importantly we expect expense levels to come down meaningfully in the first quarter reflecting the full run rate of our expense savings.
During the quarter we closed 16 more branches reaching a total of 81 or approximately 8% of our franchise since the launch of our efficiency initiative.
As Beth commented earlier our efficiency initiative reached $241 million in annual expense savings.
Going forward the savings from our continuous improvement efforts will be embedded within our expense run rate and we believe will help drive our efficiency ratio lower.
We've made a lot of progress but there is still a lot more we can do to improve productivity.
Turn to Slide 11 our net charge-offs declined to $37 million or 27 basis points of average total loans in the fourth quarter.
This continues to be below our target range and is the lowest level since the first quarter of 2007.
Total commercial loan net charge-offs this quarter remained low at 2 basis points of average loans and gross charge-offs improved by $12 million or 15% from the prior quarter.
To breakdown the asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on Slide 17 in the appendix.
At December 31 2013 our reserves for loan losses represented 1.56% period end loans and 167% coverage of our nonperforming loans.
We expect charge-offs to remain at or below the target range in 2014 and for loan provision to approximate the level of net charge-offs.
Turning to Slide 12 our tangible common equity ratio and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remained strong at December 31<sup>st</sup> at 9.8% and 11.23% respectively.
Our current estimates of Tier 1 common equity as calculated under the final rule was 10.6% which exceeds the fully phased in minimum requirement.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $474 million in common shares in 2013 including $99 million in the fourth quarter.
We have approximately $90 million of net share repurchase authorization remaining under our 2013 capital plan which run through March of this year.
We submitted our or 2014 capital plans [reserve] earlier this month and plan on announcing our result in March following that reserve release of their analysis and findings.
Moving onto Slide 13 this is a summary of our outlook and expectations for 2014 consistent with my comments today.
As I stated earlier we expect average loans to continue to grow year-over-year in the mid-single digit range and our net interest income from and remained relatively stable with our reported level in 2013.
Revenue should also benefit from the full year of low single-digit growth in noninterest income compared to the prior year.
We anticipate expenses will be down low single-digit on a full year basis.
This guidance reflects the impact of implemented expense savings planned investments as well as future costs associated with implementing additional cost savings initiatives.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs at or below the lower end of our targeted range of 40 basis points to 60 basis points.
Our GAAP effective tax rate should be in the 26% to 20% range this year excluding the impact of the additional lease terminations.
Finally capital management will remain a priority including continuing to execute on our remaining share repurchase authorizations.
With that I'll close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Let's begin with Erika Najarian at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My first question is clarity on the expense guidance for 2013.
I was wondering whether or not the base under which we should take the single-digit decline would be the GAAP base or the adjusted base excluding the efficiency charges? Guidance should reflect the actual reported expense base of $2.820 billion and we would expect to see a low single-digit kind of reduction from that level for the full year of 2014.
Keep in mind though that guidance also does reflect the impact of investments as well as the other costs expenses to be incurred in connection with further expense reductions.
Got it.
My follow-up question is on the net interest income guidance.
Could you give us a sense on where Key is positioned with the LCR proposals as you understand it? If you do need to continue to build liquidity from here whether or not that's already fully embedded in your net interest income outlook for the year? Great.
As far as the LCR as currently drafted we haven't provided what our estimated calculations would be as there are a couple pieces of that proposal that do cause some challenges for us.
One is the treatment of collateralized deposits which we [inaudible] as an unintended consequence of the current draft and also some of the handling associated with agency securities that once the rules are finalized and we believe that there should be some positive hopefully changes from those issues.
We should be in good standing without any significant changes to the overall balance sheet.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Ryan Nash at Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ryan Good morning.
On the efficiency guidance of the 60 to 65 I used the midpoint of each piece of your guidance and I think it implies an adjusted efficiency ratio around 65%.
I know Beth you talked about getting to the middle-end of that range without the higher rates.
Is it fair to say that this can be achieved over the next four to six quarters or is this more likely to take a multi-year process? I'll start with that answer and then I'll let Don add some color.
As we go into 2014 I think everybody is continuing to see [inaudible] effective pressure in [loan] [ph] interest rate.
As we look at it we look to the growth in our balance sheet that we have seen in loan and deposits we got some of the businesses where you have seen us invest in cards mortgage servicing so our goal is to clearly talk about positive operating leverage where our revenues will exceed our expense growth.
And embedded in that is continued expense discipline and opportunities for further reductions and the opportunity to pace our investments make sure that we are pairing them indeed with the revenue that we expect.
It supports our strategy.
I think the company definitely has the right focus and I believe you will see progress within the range in 2014.
With that I let Don add his comments.
I think you are absolutely right Beth.
We are very focused on driving positive operating leverage and with that we do believe that will translate to improvements in our efficiency ratio and I wouldn't want to suggest that it could be at the same pace that we saw from the second quarter of '12.
We were at 69% to the current quarter we are about 65% but we do believe that it will be a measured improvement on a year-over-year basis.
Got it.
Then just a follow-up question on your mid-single-digit loan growth guidance a couple of pieces of the question.
I think you highlighted CF&amp;A as an area that you expect to see growth but given the improvement we have seen in CRE and construction what are your expectations for those portfolios? Can we see those picking up at an accelerating pace? Then just also related to overall loan growth you noted that there was an acceleration towards the end of the quarter.
Is any of that seasonally you are seeing corporate is paying that down early in the year and just one last piece of the question.
You noted that your economic outlook is muted.
Can you just give us somewhat of an outlook in terms of what you are actually expecting for a broader macro picture? Ryan let me start.
This is Chris Gorman.
Let me start with the CRE question.
Then Beth I'll ask you then to come back on our view on macro perspective.
As it relates to CRE Ryan we do think we can continue to grow that portfolio.
Our real estate business is an interesting one in that only about 15% of the capital we raised that we put on our balance sheet.
Having said that as we look at our jumping off point for '14 we had a lot of growth in the fourth quarter in CRE so we have a very good jumping off point and the business has a fair amount of momentum.
With that I would caveat it.
We are watching certain multi-family markets very very carefully and we are tightening our screens.
Having said that we believe we can continue to grow our CRE business and the pipeline looks strong.
As it relates to kind of our macro view Yes.
Ryan I would just tell you that clearly our guidance is reflective of the momentum of our view of interest rates our view of the economy as we go into 2014 but I think as you will see or kind of across the board as you look at the conference calls banks as well as just the general tone in the market 2014 is the year that is beginning with more economic strength and optimism than we have seen in past years so the tone the market performance of last year the fact that there was the beginning of tapering in December but we have a budget deal we have always talked about our clients as being cautious or cautiously optimistic but we have also said that our commercial middle market and corporate clients are well-positioned.
They are profitable they have good balance sheet and they are carrying high liquidity.
We saw signs last year of consumer showing recovery particularly as housing prices began to firm up so could this play out to be an opportunity in 2014 I think is a big question that we will all be watching as the year goes on.
If these things do indeed translate into greater confidence and business and consumers will we see increased activity from what we are projecting.
I would tell you that it is too soon to see if that would cause any changes.
I think our guidance is solid.
I think it reflects what we [inaudible] we can deliver but I will also tell you that our business model is well-positioned should the economy improve demand increase as the year unfolds we feel very good about how we have positioned ourselves in the market.
Ryan you had one of the sub-question there as far as the year-end growth and I would suggest that it was led by commercial real estate as Chris had alluded to and also equipment finance so this wasn't some of the typical window-dressing you might see from some commercial borrowers at the end of the year.
This was a core business that we believe will start as a good launching point for us in 2014.
Great guys.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Josh Levin at Citi.
Good morning.
You have closed some branches over the past year or so and I was wondering what's the process you are using to evaluate potential future branch closings? Josh this is Bill Koehler here.
It is the same process we used for the 81 others.
We take a look at individual branch productivity as well as we call it branch of share which is looking at the broader impact of the way all our clients middle-market clients business banking clients and consumers engage in that branch and the revenue that is derived from it.
As we look at the footprint and the productivity of the branches we have we do see opportunities as we move forward to continue to optimize our branch network.
We do think we are at a position where we can optimize our network in what would be a more normal pace that you would typically see from any retail company and part of it is dependent on the pace at which we can generate more revenue from the investments in our digital channels.
We feel good about some of the progress we are making there but there is more work to be done.
Okay.
My second question is about capital.
We don't yet know what your minimum regulatory capital requirements will be but it's pretty clear that you have excess capital.
How should investors think about that excess capital? Does it ultimately get distributed to shareholders should we assume at some point not in 2014 but at some point your pet ratio exceeds 100% or is that excess capital now a permanent part of your capitalization? Josh I'll paint some color on our capital priorities and then I'll let Don add some of his thoughts.
I think we have been pretty clear all along on our capital priorities and been consistent that - that to have a strong capital base that supports our ability to invest and grow our company organically that we are committed to our dividend we are committed to share repurchase and with that strong capital we feel like we have a competitive advantage to opportunistically grow our company but that does indeed create future opportunities for us to continue to invest and grow.
In terms of as you said there will some capital ratios left.
We continue to participate obviously in the annual CCAR process we believe we are well positioned as a company strong foundation which to go into the CCAR process and are looking to build a very consistent track record with our shareholders for how we manage invest and deploy our capital.
At this point I'll let Don talk about relative level of capital but I think it's premature to indicate a capital level because of our final investment.
I agree.
I think Josh as far as our capital levels I think used to be dictated based on the results of stress test prospectively than it will be on any type of reasonable buffer but then even with that we do believe that we have very strong levels of capital and more than what our business model would suggest we would need to have to maintain a very profitable strong balance sheet and we do have the current constraints as far as the capital planning process and I would not want to project when those rules or guidelines might change.
I will tell you as I stated that our priorities are to support organic growth to continue to have a strong common dividend to return shareholders in a form of share buyback and to make it available for any other strategic opportunities but we that we are going to be very prudent in how we manage our capital prospective.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Steven Alexopoulos at JPMorgan.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
On the expenses on last quarter's earnings call you guys guided to I think expenses were $680 million to $700 million including one-time items in the quarter.
One-timers came out at it was $2 million above the upper end of the $15 million to $20 million range but total expenses are $12 million above the upper end of the range and that was only a few months ago.
Can you walk us through what drove expenses coming in so much higher than the upper end of guidance? Sure and I think you started some of the walk-forward there Steven.
Essentially the one-time costs were $24 million which was the expense initiative and the pension settlement cost is $24 million so that was roughly $4 million higher than our guidance.
We also had expenses associated with operating loss we also had some higher technology costs than were expected and we also had some increased costs associated with compensation plans that have a component tied to our share price and three of those areas cost us around $12 million so if you would adjust for those areas that I think the core expense base for the current quarter is just shy of the $680 million range which would put us within that guidance range that we would have projected at the end of the third quarter.
We acknowledge that it was higher we would suggest that the nature of those expenses that caused us to be higher would be more one-time in nature or non-recurring which gives us some confidence in our expense guidance going into 2014.
Don maybe I could follow-up on that guidance.
I mean the way I am looking at it basing it off of a base that includes one-time items doesn't give us really much transparency at all and Don how are you planning on managing expenses in the New Year so you are looking at core expense levels right? Which I think was $2.7 billion for the year or so.
We know you need to make investments next year.
Can you offset those and at least hold core expenses flat for the year? Well our expense guidance was down low single-digits and we have defined low-single-digits as less than 5% so if you take that $2.8 billion reported expense base and reduce it more in that range I think it would imply a fairly flat to maybe slightly down expenses from that core level you had cited so we have committed to the $241 million in expense savings.
That has been implemented.
We would expect to see and realize the full benefit of that in the first quarter of 2014 prospectively.
Our guidance does include the additional investments we are planning on making along with an estimate of what we think will be one-time costs associated with further expense reductions that we have planned going into 2014.
Great.
I appreciate the follow-up color.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor at Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
This is Ron Placid from Matt's team.
How are you guys doing? Good.
Good morning.
First question.
As it relates to your fee income guidance of low single-digit growth versus 2013 I guess first what categories you expect to drive growth in 2014 and will it be a continuation of what you've seen in 2013? Then secondly if we look at the implied full year 2014 fee income number just comparing that to the 4Q annualized level.
How should we think about kind of growth versus the 4Q annualized level in fee income Yes.
As far as the guidance for 2014 a couple of areas that we think will be strong contributors to us in the 2014 results for fee income growth.
One is investment banking and debt placement fee.
We are expecting that to outpace the rest of the fee income categories.
The second would be in cards and payments-related income.
We have made some investments there and we really launched our proprietary card here in late third early fourth quarter and so we are expecting to see lots of benefit from those two areas.
If you take a look at the fourth quarter of $453 million there are some items in there that are more seasonal in nature including our corporate-owned life insurance income.
We tend to have a pick up in the fourth quarter there and some of the other categories will show some normal seasonal trends too.
For instance in the first quarter with the day count being two days smaller or less but it does create some pressure on some of the fee income categories in the first quarter compared to the full year run rate.
Okay.
Great.
Then just as it relates to your net interest income guidance for 2014 of flat year-over-year I guess what does this imply for the net interest margin and can you just talk about kind of the trajectory of the NIM as we go through 2014? Then may be your ability to deploy some of the liquidity build you have seen in..
Good question.
I would have suggested that we would have seen more utilization of our excess liquidity earlier in the year throughout 2013 and we continue to see it build but our guidance is on net interest income and not necessarily on the margin because of that.
Because we would expect to see higher levels of liquidity continuing into the first part of 2013 which would imply initially maintaining a margin that's really close to the current level because those excess liquidity levels would continue.
On a normal basis throughout 2014 we would expect to see the lower rate environment still have a one to two-basis point negative impact on a linked quarter basis and that will put pressure on the margin that will be offset by some of the benefit from utilization of that excess liquidity throughout the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First I just want to hit on expenses one more time here and I am wondering Don may be if you could provide some additional detail behind what specifically drove the operating loss and also the IT trend in the fourth quarter results? Yes.
As far as the operating loss it was an individual issue that would be non-recurring.
It was less than $4 million so it wasn't a large dollar amount.
It did result in a negative variance and we did recognize that later in the quarter.
As far as the IT costs but we had a lot less capitalized IT and more expensed IT in the current quarter based on the nature of some of the projects and that worked out to be about a $4 million negative variance there as well and so those are the two primary areas associated with that variance.
Okay.
Then just on our commercial real estate.
You had really nice momentum here in the fourth quarter on both the loan generation and also the fee income side.
Can you update us in terms of what you have seen over the last few months and also how the joint venture with Berkadia has played into it and also what are you seeing on the construction front and also the permanent financing segment because it seems like some banks have talked about competition easing little bit on that back part? Craig this is Chris.
What we are seeing from a competitive landscape is really not a big change.
Compete really in all the segments between on balance sheet CMBS Fannie and Freddie FHA with the institutional market which is primarily insurance companies so we don't see a huge change in the competitive landscape.
What we do see and I think I alluded to it earlier is we see some markets where there has been a lot of buildings specifically in multi-family specifically in certain markets.
Having said that there are plenty of opportunities outside of those markets and even in those markets we see opportunities with our really great customers and people that we require them to put in more equity so we feel good about the real estate market but probably the bright spot has been multifamily.
As you look at the cap rates it manifest itself in that.
Multi-family cap rates right now are somewhere between 5.5 and 7.5 and they didn't really change after the tenure went up 110 basis points.
As it relates to our third-party commercial loan servicing business we continue to have a lot of momentum in that business.
The CMBS market this year was about an $80 billion market up from around $60 billion but what's really interesting for that business is we are now at a point where a lot of the CMBS that we service are maturing and so that gives us an opportunity to garner more servicing.
It also gives us a unique opportunity to look into those and see what pieces and parts we might want to finance.
Then the last piece and that actually impacted us positively in the fourth quarter is the special servicing business that we have really grown and then picked up in two additional pieces.
We are named special servicer now on about 50 billion up from kind of mid-teens just a couple of years ago and that's a countercyclical business.
You are basically the workout agent and by definition you are not a lender into that deal.
That's an area that really hasn't kicked in yet but when the market gets softer as it inevitably will there will be an opportunity for us.
Just one follow-up as those loans mature within the servicing portfolio when do you think your servicing portfolio will actually start to drive stronger commercial real estate loan growth? Will it be in 2014 or is it more a 2015 and later event? As you look at the refinancing cliff I would say that there will be some in '14 but it should accelerate in '15.
All right.
Great guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go next to Mike Mayo at CLSA.
Hi.
Can you reassure more on efficiency? I guess there's three parts to my question.
I guess it's been about five or six questions on efficiency.
Your stock is down 4% in the opening minutes and with all the questions on expenses and efficiency I'm guessing it has to do with that but first the 2014 guidance for a positive operating leverage but having the efficiency charges included in the base for 2013 I think that's probably the biggest concern.
On Slide 10 you showed the efficiency ratio without those charges.
Then when you guide forward you include those back in so just any more comfort on 2014? I guess you said flat-to-down but I'm not sure what else you can do but it would be helpful.
The second part of that would be the efficiency target.
At the annual meeting Beth you said 60% to 65% is not an ending point and the target range of 60% to 65% is still worse than where the company was 20 years ago and I guess the third point what this is leading to is just more details.
Don I appreciate you saying a lot more to improve efficiency but we don't have any numbers so anything else you give us.
I guess are you going to start reporting the $241 million annualized savings? Do you have a new number? Branch closings? FTE which business areas because 65% is still a really lousy efficiency ratio.
Beth you've made tremendous progress over the past couple of years not to take anything away from that but just as stocks go up they can go back down if that progress is stalled as it looks like it stalled in the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
All right Mike there were many parts to that question.
If I could I will address the target and then I do think we have some very specific questions on certain slides and certain numbers that I am going to ask Don to fill in and I would reiterate that 60% to 65% is not the end of where we see the path for Key as we've become a more efficient company and as we looked at 2014 we are reaffirming 60% to 65% as the range for 2014.
That's driven by a couple of factors.
I alluded to one of them earlier which is the continued low interest rate environment the pressure everyone is seeing on their net interest income as a result.
Strong balance sheet growth isn't necessarily translating into top line revenue growth in this particular environment so I think our goal this year and what you should watch and what was accountable to is our ability to move within the range both by every single day our ability as we talk about positive operating leverage is to grow our businesses to grow our revenue to become more efficient continue our journey of reducing our cost base but at the same time as you've heard us talk about some of the investments we have made are bearing fruit specifically in the commercial mortgage servicing business in our cards and our payments so we are going to continue to invest because we believe it is benefitting our business mix the vitality of our company and fits within our profile from a risk point of view so 60% to 65% is not an end but it is the right rage for 2014 and as I said earlier our goal is to move within that range during the year.
Then I think you had some more detailed questions that I am going to turn over to Don.
Sure Mike and as far as the expense guidance that we always want to baseline that with our reported numbers and so the $2.820 billion is our total expenses for 2013.
The low-single-digit kind of decline year-over-year is translating to something that would be flattish with the core expense levels in 2013.
Absent the $117 million the one-time charges keep in mind that our guidance for 2014 does include roughly $30 million or so of one-time cost estimates for 2014 and also it does include investments that we are making in a number of our strategic areas so we believe that the guidance is appropriate.
We do believe that it does reflect ongoing expense initiatives and we are very focused on driving positive operating leverage and we think that this guidance does accomplish that and we think it's been consistent with our overall operating plan outlook.
Just as one follow-up Don if you could just give some insight with your limited time in the position some areas where you see additional efficiency benefits and I keep harping on this issue as someone who has covered the company 20 years I know its new management and everything else but 65% efficiency versus a peer group average closer to 60% yes there should be a lot of room to improve efficiency.
Just in which areas? Point us in some direction which business lines? Anything else that we can sink our teeth into? Thanks.
Well as far as areas what we need to continue to improve is our overall productivity across all of our segments and each of our businesses are keenly focused on that we needed to enhance that over time.
Just a more specific area is if you look at our occupancy cost compared to revenue and size the organization it is outsized and we have taken a number of initiatives and steps to address that.
We have talked about the reduction in the commitment to space here in our corporate center and we are going to free up about 200 000 square feet and have a net savings of $4 million to $5 million a year coming from that and much of that doesn't kick off until '15 as these leases expire but we have got similar efforts throughout our franchise that have addressed other regional headquarter space and trying to gain additional efficiency improvements there as well so we are making a lot of progress we do have a number of areas to continue to focus on and we are addressing it just like we have with some of the branch consolidation efforts as well.
There are long list of initiatives and areas of focus and more of that will be driven prospectively by some of the change in the culture and focus on continuous improvements throughout the company.
One area Mike that we have invested in and that I have talked about recently at one of our conferences is Lean Six Sigma.
I think our end-to-end processes in this company are right opportunities to improve not only the efficiency of the process but the ultimate end client experience and we have a list of those that we have prioritized as a team where we are really going to look at some of our underlying processes because I think there will be opportunities and targets would be put around that that we are expecting from that group.
That is something that many other companies may have already done but that's the journey where I think this is the year where we are really well organized to do that work.
There continue to be opportunities within vendors and sourcing as well so as you look at the underlying infrastructure what cost deliver at Key there are still continuing opportunities.
Thank you.
We will go next to Bob Ramsey at FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you.
My question has already been asked.
All right.
Thanks Bob.
We'll move next to Steve Scinicariello at UBS.
Good morning everyone.
Morning.
Just wanted to focus on the other driver of the efficiency ratio the revenue side of the equation I know you mentioned a couple of drivers on the fee income side whether it's the mortgage servicing the cards and also on the investment banking side but just kind of curious where you might see kind of the greatest revenue opportunities as you look out to 2014 and just kind of give us a little color on some of the key drivers there? Sure Steve.
It's Chris Gorman here.
Our biggest key driver is to continue to be able to take our unique business model that connects with these middle market customers and convert them into customers so if you look last year we literally brought on hundreds of new customers we enhanced hundreds more.
We have this broad product offering.
As you look at our ability to bring new people on to our platform we had a lot of success in doing that so really as we think about revenue we don't necessarily think about any particular product; loans deposits fees we have been fortunate enough to grow all those.
What we really focused on is in a very targeted way growing the clients that we have.
Empirically last year we brought on 648 new clients we also brought on some new senior bankers.
We've talked about the fact we are going to continue to go out and hire people and leverage the platform so that is what we see is our biggest driver of revenue in the past year and frankly going forward as we looked to '14.
This is Bill Koehler.
In the Community Bank in particular as it relates to the consumer I think most people would say the consumer is getting steadily stronger and we have seen that materialize in our home equity book and we have also seen some growth in our credit card portfolio from the levels when we originally bought it.
We think there's more opportunity there.
As the consumer gets stronger you can envision more investment.
Revenue you can certainly envision more net interest income from improving our consumer loan book so there are plenty of opportunities there as we go forward too.
Perfect so that's the other part of the equation.
When you are talking about increasing productivity it sounds like you have a lot of targeted opportunities both on the middle market side and on the consumer side as well then? This is Bill again.
I would say two things.
It's not just productivity but we see an opportunity to leverage our model to take share in both the Corporate Bank and the Community Bank.
We intend to hire some bankers in very targeted ways where we see opportunity to enhance our presence in either industry groups or any specific geography.
Steve I would just underscore because Don mentioned it that it is indeed a focus of our management team that productivity is an opportunity as well and it's something concerning metrics and we will be reviewing regularly with our team to capture opportunities for more productive sales force as well as adding to our sales force with high quality people who can help generate business.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go next to Alan Strauss at Schroders.
Yes.
Could you maybe give us a little insight into the one-time or the repositioning charges that you expect in 2014? At the same time what the incremental cost saves you expect? I guess we would see in 2015 from those charges? As far as the estimated one-time cost that's for programs similar to what we have implemented this year and I would say generally it's about a year-and-a-half to maybe a two-year payback on some of the costs that generally has a fairly quick turnaround.
Could you refresh me what was it this past year the one-times that you put through? The one-time Well not really one-time but for the year the repositioning costs? The total costs associated with the expense initiative were in the $90 million range for the current year.
On top of that we had roughly $27 million on the pension settlement so total of $117 million and we are expecting to have about $30 million of one-time costs in 2014.
Then in 2015 the run rate should go down by at least maybe another $90 million with these cost saves? I would suggest that the $30 million has a one-and-a-half year type of payback period that would imply somewhere around $20 million type of annual expense reduction for those initiatives.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will move next to Gerard Cassidy at RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Don can you come back to the capital questions that you heard today? I think you pointed out that the stress test maybe the driver of what kind of capital you and your peers will have to keep on your balance sheet.
Everyone recognizes as you did that your Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III is very very high.
If I recall correctly the stress test is calling that all the banks have to exceed a Tier 1 common ratio of 5%.
so if 5% is the bogie in the stress test what does that equate into a regular Basel III Tier 1 common ratio based on your balance sheet today? I think that what you would see typically is the stress of about 300 basis points in most banks compared to what the capital levels would be on a starting basis versus what goes through the stress test so I think that gives you one benchmark for that.
Thank you.
We'll move next to Jennifer Demba at SunTrust.
Thank you.
I think that all the questions have been asked but I'll call it on the multi-family caution just curious which markets you are relatively more cautious on right now Chris? Jennifer we're constantly screening these markets.
I think some of the markets that we really have our eye on are markets like Washington D.C.
like Raleigh like Denver like Seattle.
Those are some of the markets we are watching cautiously.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Nancy Bush at NAB Research.
Good morning.
Beth if I could ask you is there some part of this sort of chronically high efficiency ratio that's structural? I mean is there something about the configuration of the company that leads to this and part of that being markets where you don't have as much scale as you'd like to have and how do you address this over the long-term? Yes Nancy.
I'd be glad to talk about that because I do think it is a question that does come up from time-to-time and I would tell you it is my belief and I think it's something we have evaluated pretty thoroughly.
It is not a structural cost related to our footprint particularly in era of image enabled technology digital.
There is no particular cost burden to our geographic footprint that I think is burdensome to the company I think as we look at it I think it is a matter of a couple of things.
When you look at kind of our expense ratios and then our revenue for FTE a piece of it is embedded in the productivity and the revenue side of this company so you've heard us I think continued and purposely talk about this as positive operating leverage as an efficiency ratio initiative.
I think we should get more productivity out of our franchise.
I think we have benefited from our geographic dispersion with our particular business model because it plays into our vertical; it plays into our ability to be a strong middle-market lender a private banking presence.
We were talking many times what we are in a market is so much more than just whatever our branch density is so I do think it is a journey for Key that does every single day have us thinking about what can we do to enhance revenue add to our capabilities add to our sales professionals add to our productivity and constantly reduce our expenses and I think the broader structural opportunity is the one I mentioned which is in some of our processes that we've really never gone on an end-to-end look.
And I think that is a bigger opportunity for us this year and something I'm really going to focus on.
If I might just ask as an add on to that? I mean what part will acquisitions play and your thought process? I would tell you that for a lot of reasons the acquisition market has not been simply robust for the last couple of years.
As you have seen more has happened and we have participated in one of those in terms of acquisition of branches as opposed to whole franchises.
We did the Western New York transaction from HSBC in 2012 and I will tell you that has gone very well for us.
I think I think as we look at it and look at where we would invest opportunistically I think we would always look at something that could complement a market where we already have presence and by building density or brining in the right customer base that that would be additive.
I think we are looking at how can we use investments in technology mobile and digital to augment our franchise.
I view that as something where we have a unique opportunity I think to leverage that against our footprint because I think that's going to broaden our ability to create a consumer and client experience.
Then frankly we have shown where we will look at specialty businesses that are very much on point and within strategies that yet add to our business platform or our product platform so that's how I'm thinking as.
Acquisitions I look at them more broadly in terms of what can they do for our business models to grow revenue and increase our capability.
Thank you.
We'll move next to Terry McEvoy of Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Don you said the first quarter expenses would come down meaningfully.
Should we look at $680 million as a good starting point for the first quarter and how should we think about the $39 million of one-time expenses in '14? Will that be relatively spread out or are there any quarters that you see those costs being a little bit elevated? As far as the first quarter I think our baseline for the fourth quarter is a good start point to make adjustments from.
Keep in mind that there are certain seasonal type of expense trends that do occur in the first quarter so you will see some variance in a few line items like employer taxes and marketing tends to be a little lower for us so you will see some positives and negatives there.
As far as the $30 million of expected onetime cost right now we are not showing any significant volatility throughout the year but that can change based on the timing of different announcements and plans.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Marty Mosby at Guggenheim.
Hi.
I wanted to follow-up or kind of talk about net interest margin and asset sensitivity.
Just curious about how asset sensitive you think you are when rates eventually do climb and you have been kind of letting swaps roll off so how much would you like to increase that let's say over the next year year-and-a-half before short-term rates begin to increase? Marty this is Don.
Right now our estimated asset sensitivity is around a 3% position for a 200 rate environment.
We have accomplished that from as you've suggested the runoff of some of the swaps that have been matured that did have a negative impact in the current quarter about 2 basis points to our margins as far as linked quarter change in our swap benefit.
We would probably continue to manage in a relative similar range to where we are now.
I wouldn't want to suggest that we would see a lot of variability in that over the next year.
We have about $1 billion of swaps that mature throughout 2014 which will allow us the opportunity to adjust that position over time.
At this point no further plans on the 2 basis points loss this quarter deterioration because of the swaps rolling off and not getting the benefit? No plans to make any adjustments there.
Again I think just beyond the swaps that the nature of our balance sheet allows us benefit from rates we think pretty quickly.
If you look our investment portfolio it tend to be a shorter duration.
It was 3.6 as of the end of the fourth quarter and that would allow us to benefit from increasing rates fairly quickly.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Marquardt at Evercore.
I just wanted to drill down a little bit onto fees.
Then just to be clear I guess first off on the guidance.
Just to be clear it's off of a reported number.
It sounds like across the board.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Then for this quarter it looks like other had and hedging benefit in it from certain sale gains in the Real Estate Capital group and also appreciate the breaking out rather the mortgage servicing fees this quarter.
How should we think about those two line items on kind of a go-forward basis? Thanks.
As far as the other you are right that we did have about $4 billion linked-quarter improvement coming from some of the gains as you referenced and the mortgage servicing fee income did benefit this quarter a little bit from some specialty servicing fees and those may be a little more episodic as far as their occurrence and so you might see a little fluctuation there but those types of changes were considered as part of our overall guidance for the growth year-over-year.
When I look at I guess the Corporate Bank business line segment it looked like the other- other kind of gains were maybe greater than that or are there other things in there? Maybe I'm getting too lost into each year in terms of $15 million gain this quarter fees this quarter versus last quarter versus last quarter $8 million drag and the year ago $6 million drag? In the fourth quarter of '12 we really benefited from a very strong commercial real estate market both in the volume and also rates on some of the sales that we had so that's some of the drag that you referenced compared to the fourth quarter of '12.
As far as other unusual items in the Corporate Bank for the fourth quarter there really weren't other items of any size and so that $4 million change that we talked about before really was the largest individual change within those categories.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Ken Usdin at Jefferies.
Yes.
Hi.
This is Tom from Ken's team.
I just had a quick question on taxes.
The 4Q rate looked a little light how should we be thinking about that for 2014? Sure.
The fourth quarter rate did reflect the impact of the leverage lease transaction that was referenced as well.
What we've provided for our guidance for 2014 will be an effective rate of somewhere between 26% and 28% and that assumes no further leverage lease transactions.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
We'll go next to Brian Foran of Autonomous.
Hi.
I have a seven-part question.
Hi Brian.
Just on the fees.
Two numbers you mentioned 15% I think 15% of total CRE capital raised going off the balance sheet securitization debt and equity placements et cetera and 648 early subscribers down.
New middle market customers who you are attempting to further penetrate and cross-sell can you just remind us on both of those metrics? How does that compare versus history and any expectation for how that will look going forward? Brian its Chris Gorman.
As it relates to the question you asked specifically on real estate so it's actually the inverse of what you described.
We raised in the real estate business a total of $44.3 billion in '13.
Of that in terms of commitments 6.4 billion or slightly less than 15% went on our balance sheet and the other 85% was placed elsewhere.
As you look at those metrics it would compare to a total of $34.7 billion raised in '12 and as you look at what's on balance sheet in terms of commitments it would be $6.4 billion up from $5.5 in '12.
As it relates to our new clients we spend a lot of time really focusing on new clients and expanded relationships and the reason we do that is we think this platform we built is unique for the middle market but we think there is an opportunity to leverage it so the 648 new clients really was across the entire Corporate Bank.
They generated about $108 million worth of revenue and what's even more interesting is our expanded relationships those which were doing significantly more business than we did last year 428 of those generated another $259 million in revenue.
As you can see it's a pretty dynamic client base as we continue to get more and more focused and really go deep into these six verticals that we are focused on.
That answers your question? That's very helpful.
Thank you for the detail.
You are welcome.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Mooney for any closing and additional remarks.
All right.
Thank you operator and we thank all of you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team Vern Patterson or Kelly Dillon at 216-689-4221.
That concludes our remarks.
Thank you and have a great day.
Again that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer.
And available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; and Bill Hartman our Chief Risk officer.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call today.
Turning now to Slide 3.
This was a good quarter for Key with solid financial results.
We delivered on our commitments to generate positive operating leverage to maintain strong risk management practices and to remain disciplined in the way we manage capital.
Our positive operating leverage from the prior year reflects the work we have done to improve efficiency with initiatives targeted for both revenue and expense and this becomes even more critical given the slow recovery and revenue headwinds that continue to impact our industry.
Key's revenue in the first quarter was relatively stable with the prior year and down modestly from the prior quarter reflecting normal seasonal trends and lower activity level.
Revenue benefited from solid loan growth which continued to outpace the industry.
Loan growth was driven by our commercial financial and agricultural loans which were up $1.2 billion or 5% on annualized from the prior quarter.
We have been pleased with the quality of our new loan originations but we continue to see loan yields reflecting the competitive pricing environment.
Noninterest income benefited from areas where we have been investing including credit card and payments and commercial mortgage servicing.
We have also made significant progress on expenses which were down $19 million or 3% from the prior year end -- prior year quarter and down $50 million or 7% from the fourth quarter.
Our cash efficiency ratio was 65% which was within our targeted range.
We remain committed to further efficiency improvement and Don will discuss our path forward in his remarks.
Our strong risk management practices and a more favorable environment resulted in another quarter of positive credit quality trends.
Net charge-offs declined to 15 basis points aided by strong recoveries as well as our improving credit quality and we are well below our targeted range.
Additionally nonperforming assets declined 33% from the year ago period and capital management remains a priority.
We were pleased to receive a non-objection from the Federal Reserve on our 2014 capital plan.
This will allow us to repurchase up to $542 million in common shares and subject to board approval increase our quarterly common share dividend 18% to $0.065 per share.
Using Street estimates our total shareholder payout would be in the 84% range among the highest in our peer group for the second consecutive year.
Additionally we completed our 2013 CCAR capital plan with common share repurchases of $141 million in the first quarter.
I'm now turning to Slide 4.
During the first quarter we made a number of leadership changes to leverage our alignment accelerate momentum and to drive growth.
Last week we announced that Dennis Devine and E.J.
Burke will be co-Presidents of our Community Bank.
Dennis will focus on retail banking and small business clients and E.J.
will be responsible for our commercial and business banking as well as our Private Bank.
Based on their experience and proven leadership we feel they are perfect fit for these new roles.
Since joining Key in 2012 Dennis has made significant progress in sharpening our consumer and small business strategy while also realigning resources to sustainably improve productivity and performance.
His new leadership role in the Community Bank reflects the importance of consumer and small business banking to the overall success of Key and our intent to drive this business forward.
E.J.
is a 14-year veteran of Key.
His strong leadership successful transformation of our real estate business and other broad accomplishments in the Corporate Bank will help drive our Commercial Business and Private Banking segments while further deepening the collaboration of these Community Bank areas with our corporate bank an important component of our unique business model.
Both Dennis and E.J.
will join our executive leadership team and report directly to me.
We also made a change in our Commercial Payments business.
Moving Clark Khayat who is our former Head of Strategy in Corporate Development to lead this critical area.
Clark and his team will be focused on growing this business and maximizing the return from our recent investment which includes the launch of purchase and prepaid cards earlier this year.
In addition to the new payment products we have continued to invest in and build out our online and mobile capability.
This past quarter we expanded our online account opening tool to include more products and services and our user base is growing.
Downloads of our mobile application have increased over 70% from the prior year and online penetration continues to increase.
We also made progress on other strategic initiatives including improving sales productivity and strengthening our business mix through targeted investments as well as exiting businesses that are not a strategic fit.
In the Community Bank we are strengthening our sales management process and has seen a lift in our sales productivity which will remain a major focus for Dennis and E.J.
In the corporate bank we continue to see growth in new and expanded client relationships.
In the first quarter we also announced that we would be exiting our international leasing operation which had limited scale and connectivity to our other businesses.
This is consistent with our commitment to allocate our capital to businesses that fit our strategy and generate appropriate risk-adjusted returns.
I'm very excited about all the changes we made in the quarter.
They accelerate our momentum and enhance our efficiency.
And overall it was a good start to the year in terms of both financial results and our strategic initiatives as well as the leadership changes we announced.
Despite the environmental challenges we have good momentum and I'm confident we will continue to improve our performance.
Now I'll turn it over to Don who will comment on our first quarter results.
Don? Thanks Beth.
Slide 6 provides highlights from the company's first quarter 2014 results.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.26 per common share for the first quarter.
This compared to $0.26 for the fourth quarter of last year and $0.21 from the prior first quarter.
I'll cover many of these results in my remarks so let's now turn to Slide 7.
Loan growth has remained a positive story for Key reflecting our distinctive business model and more target approach growth has again exceeded industry averages.
Average total loans for the first quarter were up $1.1 billion or an annualized 9% compared to fourth quarter of 2013 and up $2.1 billion or 4% compared to a year ago quarter.
Our growth was driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans across Key's business lending segments.
Average commercial financial and agricultural loans were up $1.2 billion or 5% on annualized and from the fourth quarter of 2013 and up $2.0 billion or 9% compared to the prior year.
Period-end loans grew by 2% from the prior quarter.
And in the first quarter total commitments were up and we saw a slight uptick in utilization rates.
Our outlook for loan growth in 2014 remains consistent with our prior guidance of mid single-digit full year growth driven by CF&amp;A.
A change in the pace of the economic recovery could impact client demand and loan growth relative to our current expectations.
Continuing to Slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits were up $2.7 billion from 1 year ago and down $2.1 billion from the fourth quarter.
Deposit growth of $2.7 billion from prior year was largely driven by higher balances from Commercial and Public clients as well as increases related to the commercial mortgage servicing acquisition.
Compared to the prior quarter deposits were down primarily due to expected reduction in the commercial mortgage servicing escrow balances from elevated levels in the fourth quarter related to our mortgage servicing acquisition.
And as a result of a continued focus on improving deposit mix year-over-year interest-bearing liability costs declined from 70 to 54 basis points.
Turning to Slide 9.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $569 million for the first quarter compared to $589 million in both the fourth and first quarters of 2013.
Our net interest margin was 3.00% which was down 1 basis point from the prior quarter.
The decline in net interest income and net interest margin was attributable to the impact of lower asset yields and loan fees which were partially offset by the maturity of higher rate CDs and a more favorable mix of lower cost deposits.
For the full year of 2014 we expect net interest income to be relatively stable with the reported levels in 2013 with the potential for downward pressure due to the competitive environment.
We continue to expect to maintain modest asset sensitivity.
As we have highlighted before we have the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate-risk position and the duration and characteristics of Key's loan and investment portfolio's continued to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide 10 shows a summary of our noninterest income which accounts for approximately 43% of our total revenue.
Noninterest income in the first quarter was $435 million up 2% or $10 million from the first quarter of last year and down 4% or $18 million from the fourth quarter.
The year-over-year increase was due to higher investment banking and debt placement fees principal investing gains and the benefit from our recent investments in payments and commercial mortgage servicing.
The increase was partially offset by lower fixed income sales and trading income and the impact on deposit service charges from the change in posting order for client transactions which began in November of last year.
The decline from the fourth quarter was related to lower commercial mortgage service -- special servicing fees as well as the normal seasonal decline in corporate-owned life insurance.
We also had a full quarter impact to the change in the client-transaction posting order combined with normal seasonal trends.
Special servicing fees which are generated in the commercial real estate workouts are included in our mortgage servicing fees line item.
They are episodic and can vary materially from quarter-to-quarter.
Turning to Slide 11.
Noninterest expense in the first quarter was $662 million including $10 million in charges related to our efficiency and improvement efforts.
Expenses were down $19 million or 3% from the prior year and $50 million or 7% from the fourth quarter.
Expenses this quarter reflect benefits from our efficiency initiative as well as normal seasonality in areas such as marketing.
We also have lower expenses related to incentives and occupancy.
Looking ahead our typical second quarter includes annual merit increases an increase in marketing related to our spring home equity advertising campaign and potentially higher incentives tied to production.
In total we would expect expenses to be approximately $20 million higher in the second quarter.
Expense management remains a critical part of our drive to maintain positive operating leverage.
As Beth commented earlier we are at the upper end of our targeted cash efficiency ratio range of 60% to 65%.
On the next 2 slides I'll cover our expense and efficiency ratio outlook.
Moving to Slide 12.
We revised our full year outlook to reflect the improvement in our expense levels in the first quarter.
Our expectation is the full year 2014 expenses will be down in the low to mid single-digit range from the last year.
We expect to continue to generate cost savings through our continuous improvement process which will enable us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
Should the operating environment become more challenging we are prepared to take additional action through further reduction in expense as well as the timing of investments in order to continue to drive positive operating leverage.
This brings me to the next slide.
On Slide 13 is our path to achieve the lower end of our cash efficiency ratio target of 60% to 65%.
We expect to realize further improvement from business growth both organic and through strategic investments as well as additional reductions in our expense levels.
We will continue to seek opportunities to both enhance revenue and reduce cost.
Importantly this assumes no benefit from higher interest rates.
If rates move in line with the forward curve we would expect this to move our efficiency ratio below our target range.
Longer term we remain committed to making progress toward our amount lower or below our current targeted range.
For more detail on our action plan by line of business to drive productivity and efficiency improvements I would point you to Slide 19 in the Appendix in today's presentation.
Turning to Slide 14.
Our net charge-offs declined to $20 million or 15 basis points of average total loans in the first quarter which continues to be below our targeted range.
In the first quarter net charge-offs benefit from total recoveries which were up 28% or $8 million from the prior quarter.
Additionally gross charge-offs were down 14% or $9 million.
Due to a strong recoveries in the quarter commercial loan recoveries actually exceeded gross charge-offs by $8 million.
The breakdown of asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on Slide 22 in the Appendix.
At March 31 2014 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.50% of period-end loans and 186% coverage of our nonperforming loans.
We expect net charge-offs to remain below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points for the remainder of the year and for our loan loss provision to approximate the level of net charge-offs.
Turning to Slide 15.
Our tangible common equity ratio our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remains strong at March 31 at 10.14% and 11.22% respectively.
As Beth mentioned we completed our 2013 capital plan by repurchasing $141 million or 10.6 million common shares in the first quarter.
We also received no objection from the Federal Reserve in March for our 2014 capital plan which included a new common share repurchase program of up to $542 million to be executed over the next 4 quarters.
The plan also included an 18% increase in our common share dividend to $0.065 which is subject to board approval.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitment to remaining discipline in managing our strong capital position.
Our Tier 1 common ratio has remained above 11% and we have paid out a peer-leading amount of capital to shareholders.
Looking ahead our 2014 estimated CCAR payout ratio is 84% and as again among the highest of our peers.
Moving to Slide 16.
This is a summary of our 2014 outlook and expectations and is consistent with my comments today.
As I stated earlier we expect average loans to continue to grow year-over-year in the mid single-digit range and our net interest income remained relatively stable with our reported level in 2013.
Revenue should benefit from the full year low single-digit growth and noninterest income compared to the prior year.
Due to the progress made in the first quarter we now anticipate expenses will be down low to mid single-digits on a full year basis.
This guidance reflects the impact of the implemented expense savings planned investments as well as future costs associated with implementing additional cost savings initiatives.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points for the remainder of the year.
And finally capital management will remain a priority including increasing our dividend as well as continuing to execute our share repurchase authorization.
With that I will close and turn call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This Rob Placet for Matt's team.
First question as it relates to your net interest income guidance I take it to imply that there should be growth off the 1Q level I guess -- versus the 1Q level how should we think about net interest income and also the net interest margin? Great.
As far as our guidance you're right.
It would have to include increases from the first quarter.
First quarter is low seasonally because of the day count and that cost us about $8 million linked quarter from the previous fourth quarter results and so we would see a pickup there.
We do expect strong loan growth to continue.
We've talked about mid single-digit kind of growth going forward.
And our guidance would assume with that loan growth and with the same levels of liquidity going forward that margin would be relatively stable for the rest of the year.
So those are all critical parts of the assumptions in order to get the guidance we're providing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then second question similar question for fee income.
The guidance implies some growth off the 1Q level.
So I guess what are your thoughts on which categories will drive growth through the rest of the year? Again we would expect to see seasonal changes for a lot of the areas including the stronger activity levels.
The first quarter activity levels were down in many critical areas including service charge income and credit card and debit card activities.
So we would expect to see some pickup there.
But we're also seeing some very strong pipelines in our investment banking and debt placement fees.
Chris would you want to add any color to that.
Sure Don.
This is Chris.
So we feel pretty good about our backlogs in investment banking and debt placement fees.
The other thing that's interesting about our backlogs is it's more heavily skewed right now to M&amp;A.
And with M&amp;A there tends to be a multiplier effect because often we're involved in other activities in addition to just providing advisory.
So we look for that number to continue to have some forward momentum.
The other area that we're very optimistic about and it's very early days is our payments our enterprise commercial payments.
We launched both our purchase card and our prepaid card just in the first quarter of this year.
And with respect to our purchase card we are ahead of our targets in terms of client capture.
And with respect to prepaid we've been pleasantly surprised at the amount of activity out there for significant pieces of business.
Now I would warn you that those significant pieces of business are complex they take a long time there's a long sales cycle.
But we feel good about both the backlog with respect to investment banking and debt placement fees and our backlog with respect to enterprise commercial payments.
Next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up to a comment that you made Don during the prepared remarks.
You mentioned that if rates moved up as implied by the forward curve then the efficiency ratio could be below 60% to 65%.
And I just wanted to make sure I understood that correctly.
So if we saw a steepening in the yield curve but the short end is still anchored at where it is that's enough to break the 60% level? Erika the forward curve through 2016 which shows some movement up of the lower end of the curve as well.
And so that was the baseline for that assumption that actually our net interest income would increase between a flat rate environment and the forward curve by about $200 million in 2016 from that type of difference in the rate environment.
And that would reduce our efficiency ratio by about 3 percentage points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just on the guidance to -- on NII flat to 2013.
Does that include any movements to continue to build liquidity with regard to the LCR? And I guess a better question to ask is where are you on the LCR and how should we think about earning asset growth as it relates to the loan growth guidance that you gave? Great question.
And as far as our LCR that we have already started to take some actions as you might imagine given our size of our investment portfolio that we have a very strong liquidity position.
But we have been shifting that a little bit more to Ginnie Mae Security.
So as of the end of the first quarter we had 27% of our portfolio in Ginnie Mae's and that was up significantly from where it has been historically.
Through the end of the year we would see continued payments coming off the investment portfolio being reinvested in Ginnie Mae's and we should have a little more than 1/3 of our total portfolio in that Level 1 type of liquidity asset by the end of the year.
If we hit that and also if we see some changes as it relates to the municipal deposit rules that are currently in the current draft we should be in good shape for the LCR and should not have to change our overall balance sheet.
Next question is from the line of Steven Alexopoulos from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the expense guidance line which was 12 at the low end of the expense savings range of 4% to 6% then the high end of the operating investment range are just 3% to 5%.
Expense levels really wouldn't improve.
I'm just curious is there at least a minimum level of expense reduction you're committed to for 2014? Well what we are committed to is driving positive operating leverage.
And with this current environment we have for lower revenue growth and we're pulling a little harder on the expense side.
So I don't know if there is any absolute minimum or maximum there.
But I think that the path that we showed in the first quarter is probably consistent with what we'll have to focus on throughout the rest of the year unless we see things change dramatically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a follow-up Comerica also had good commercial loan growth in the first quarter.
But for them it was primarily shared national credits.
Could you break out for us how much NIX contributed to 1Q loan growth? So Steve it's Chris.
Let me kind of start by kind of giving a broad overview.
Of all the capital we raised only 15% actually goes on our balance sheet.
And of the deals that we're involved with in 70% of the instances we're the lead.
I don't have the exact number in front of me but I think you should assume whether it's leverage NIX deals or anything else that the 70% percentage would hold.
And with that Steve I would just underscore that I think it is important to note we have talked in the past that we do clients we are the originator they are our relationships.
And we do not have a desk that buys paper or participates unless it is a relationship of ours.
Next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Beth you've done a very good job since you've come on board in meeting your targets for a success especially in the expense side.
And the question is your target for the cash efficiency ratio of 60% to 65% we just heard Don say that in a rising rate environment you could get down closer to 60%.
But when you look at some of your competitors whether it's BB&amp;T or PNC these companies are all getting into the 50s.
There are some that are already there like U.S.
Bancorp and M&amp;T.
Do you -- is there a possibility or probability that you're going to take a look at this ratio and actually lower target as we go forward? Or is it just your infrastructure keeps it so you can't really get below 60%? Gerard thank you.
That is a good question and let me compare and contrast what I think is some of important differences.
As we closed out last year of 2013 the average efficiency ratio for our peer group was 65%.
So some piece of what Key has successfully done is close the gap to the peer group through the successful completion of our Fit for Growth initiative.
So as we start this year we are now in line with competitors.
And in that average obviously there are different business models.
And I think that's something that's worthy of just a little discussion because some of the competitors there that you would outline have larger payments in credit card businesses or potentially some high-yielding consumer businesses.
Our strategy as we have outlined it is to be largely a commercial bank with distinctive corporate bank capabilities.
And as you've watched our growth it's been a commercial lending investment banking and debt placement fees.
Those are a different business mix in this different business model.
They carry a higher efficiency rate.
And if you look at our loan mix again heavily skewed towards commercial lending which is highly variable again that would have a different revenue component than high-yielding consumer asset.
So some piece of as you look across a peer group I think you have to look at business model business mix and where the growth is and what the company strategy is.
So I think it's important that we did close the GAAP to our peers our Fit for Growth and the efforts we've undertaken.
I think it's important to note we say it is a journey and we are committed to further progress within our range.
And whether let's just say that anything we can do to accelerate or enhance our performance we will do.
And then I think it is inherent that a 65% average for the industry this revenue environment of low interest rate is clearly pressuring the efficiency and productivity of our industry in general.
So I would tell you that I think I'm pleased with our progress but never satisfied.
And that we will continue to show progress in the range and interest rates of a modest amount as Don outlined in his answer will give us the benefit to get into the '50s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Speaking of peer groups you guys are a leader when it comes to credit.
Obviously credit improvement has been very very good and then your capital levels are very strong.
As you identified you're at the -- one of the top of the list in returning capital to shareholders.
The question is you have so much excess capital maybe it's debatable on how much but I think most people would suggest you have excess capital.
When do you think you'll be comfortable going to the Fed during the CCAR process asking for more than 100% of earnings to give back to shareholders so that the capital ratios don't continue to grow? Granted I know the primary goal is to grow the balance sheet but it -- the growth isn't fast enough yet for the industry.
So when do you think -- or what do you need to see that you're comfortable saying "Okay we can go for over 100%?" Gerard this is Beth again.
One of the things I think is important that we had built a consistent track record with our shareholders about how they can within the CCAR process which as you know governs capital that Key has been a consistent as well as a peer leading returner of capital.
We have always talked about our capital levels as a strength over time because how we invest how we return and how we deploy that capital will be important to shareholder-value creation.
So we are the highest of our -- in our ability to return capital for the second year in a row with increase in share repurchases and common dividends.
But it is ultimately a regulatory-driven process.
So at the end of the day we will continue to be thoughtful about how we approach that.
And if you gauge us against our bank peers I think we fared well in this year's process and it is important to us that we continue to give that track record and consistency of capital management as part of our business plan.
Next question comes from Jennifer Demba from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could give us some more details about the composition of your C&amp;I growth this quarter is very strong and how much of it may have been participation versus indication? Jennifer it's Chris.
Let me first start by saying it was broad-based.
So really we have sort of 3 legs to the stool.
One is our KeyBanc Capital Markets platform that goes to market based on industry verticals.
And some of the industry verticals where we had a lot of growth there would be areas like industrial areas like energy.
We also had nice growth in our real estate business and our real estate business is really focused on 2 principal areas.
One are what we call owners of real estate which is principally multifamily and also mid-cap reach both public and private.
We had nice growth there.
And then our leasing business which is really a kind of a specialty business in that they focus a lot on technology a lot on medical equipment.
They too had nice growth.
So again we've got -- we have these niches where we're very focused very thoughtful about how we're going to the market and we enjoyed broad-based growth.
With respect to what is purchased paper what were the lead on one of the things we really like about our model is -- and I -- as I just mentioned we lead 70% of the deals that we're involved with.
So in those instances we are syndicating those deals.
We are a net seller of those.
And of course our broad model only 15% of what we raise actually goes on the balance sheet.
So these are -- it's a very focused area in terms of figuring out where we can be relevant.
Just as an aside we had our strategic drill down with our real estate team just 48 hours ago.
And in our strategic drill downs the teams come in and the RMs walk through each of their top 5 prospects.
And what we're finding is in spite of the fact that there's competition out there because of our differentiated model in real estate and in our other areas we're able to continue to capture clients.
And in the first quarter we captured 119 new clients.
So that's really how the model is built.
It continues to work.
We also got a little bit of a benefit.
I think Don mentioned that we had a slight uptick company-wide in utilization.
In the corporate bank I would say the utilization uptick was even a little bit more than slight.
And the other thing we're benefiting from is just we're constantly reallocating capital and that's a process that began really in 2010.
But as we sit here in 2014 we have a lot fewer relationships that we're actually exiting.
So if you look at the confluence of all those things that's a pretty good foundation for C&amp;I growth.
And Jennifer this is Beth.
I would just add another thing that I think is interesting as I look at it across the company that a lot of the growth is concentrated as you go up in size of the company.
And as you see the upper end of the middle market perform they are more likely to be incurring leverage to acquire companies because we see a trend towards people looking more to growth through strategic acquisition than organic investment.
We've seen some sign of borrowings to do share repurchase that companies think their own currency is a good investment.
And at the smaller end of the market while we see growth it is not as strong as it is among our upper-end mill market and corporate clients.
That's exactly right Beth.
And the other thing we're seeing is you wouldn't expect this but there is -- the competition is more intense with the smaller companies.
So what we're doing is really focusing throughout Key on some of the larger ones.
Next question is from Bob Ramsey FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious.
I know you all said that your net interest income guidance incorporates a relatively stable margin from where we are today.
And of course this quarter without the benefit of the mix shift out of shorter-term liquid assets and the loans your margin would have contracted I don't know 6 or 7 basis points.
I'm just curious what gives you confidence that it will be stable from here particularly as you do shift a little bit into LCR assets through the year? Good question.
And the couple of things that happened this past quarter that we wouldn't expect to have continued drag going forward: one is that we had an adjustment to offset some of that liquidity because of the issuance of our long-term debt and it's added about $1 billion on an average basis from the fourth quarter to the first quarter and that reflected the issuances we did including parent company to position us for our CCAR plans; second was that in the first quarter our loan fees were a lot lower than what we would've expected that -- and it was a little over $5 million weaker than first quarter of last year.
And that had additional pressure on the margin and we would expect that while there still may be some challenge there we wouldn't see the incremental drop-off there that we did this past quarter.
And Bob the one thing I would add that we always watch because I think we saw an example of it in the fourth quarter is levels of liquidity that cannot necessarily be anticipated is what I'd call always the wildcard of pressure.
And in the fourth quarter it was specifically some of the flows from our commercial mortgage servicing business which has been a nice source of income for us as well as stable deposits.
But as some of those CMBS portfolios unwind at different times you can get liquidity flows that could pressure margins.
So liquidity is always something that's hard to predict that we will always identify if that's an issue in any quarter.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> We saw some pretty big swings obviously related to escrow accounts.
Just how should we think about that going forward? And was there some seasonality in there? Or how should we sort of think about those balances going forward? So Ken it's Chris.
That was actually part of the BofA portfolio that we purchased and we completely anticipated that.
And what happened is there were some planned payoffs and when they're of large CMBS loans and what happens is the escrow flows through both principal and a bunch of other payments.
So there were about $18 billion that flowed through in and out in a short period of time in the fourth quarter.
That will -- it probably will not be to that extent going forward but it is a lumpy business and you will have flows escrow flows through it.
As we think about that business we think about the stable servicing business having about doubled from pre BofA portfolio acquisition it used to run about $7 million per quarter.
Now we think it will run about $15 million per quarter.
But there will be from time to time large escrow swings.
By the way the core deposit base actually increased both in the quarter and year-over-year.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from line of Keith Murray from ISI.
Research Division</strong> Speaking about your ROA target the 1% to 1.25% you're kind of in the middle of that range now only about 12 bps from the high end.
We think about the efficiency improvements you have out there the loan growth outlook.
I know credit obviously is performing better than normal.
But do you think at a certain point in time the franchise might be able to do above that 1.25%? And is that a target you might want to revisit? That will be a target we hopefully will be revisiting at some point in time.
But to your point that with the efficiency improvements with expansion of the margin as rates would go up that we think there would be opportunity to reassess.
But I think you hit on the right variables now which is that us offsetting some of those headwinds really is coming from our credit cost being so low that with provision expense of $6 million and charge up to $20 million well we'd like to say that's our new normal.
I don't think that's something that we can count on a long term.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just curious on the tax rate.
It came up a little bit this quarter.
What should we think about this in going forward? It did and we have stated that we think our tax rate will be between the 26% and 28%.
And we were toward the higher end of that this past quarter.
Research Division</strong> So that range still holds.
Okay.
Yes please.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally Beth you've talked about improving asset productivity.
People in our types of seats we don't get to see all the internal things.
What type of metrics should we be looking at over time? Should we look at things like PPNR per employee? Just give some guidance on what you think is something to note.
Keith I'll take some thoughts on that and then I will ask Don if he has any additional comments.
One is obviously a high-lying metric that you should watch is the level of growth because one of the things we've talked about in terms of asset efficiency is the mix between loans and investments on our balance sheet in becoming a more productive balance sheet.
And then as we look at it it should be against our targeted client segments which we've identified: our strength in commercial lending; corporate banking; as well as we have now entered some consumer products with the successful conversion of credit card although that also really is an attractive fee income base for us with the transactional capabilities in there.
And then we are looking at new clients as well as expanded clients and making sure that as we do lend into these clients that we are getting good cross-sell and appropriate returns.
And Don what else would you add to that? I think you've hit on an important point for us and that's something that we need to see how we can address to provide a little bit more of a foreshadowing of those improvements in productivity that I think -- when you mentioned PPNR to headcount and also revenue to headcount I think those would be good variables.
But it's something that we should look internally to see if there's other ways or measures that we can provide that will at least provide a little bit more insight.
Next question is from the line of Sameer Gokhale from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions here.
The first one was just looking at your noninterest income the chart on Page 10 with cards and payments that at -- of about looks like 9% of the mix.
And I think you had mentioned you have some new management to run the business and to kind of grow it.
So could you give me a sense for how much you expect that piece to increase as a percentage of the overall pie say over the next 12 to 24 months? It's relatively small now but certainly payment seems to be a big focus of interest -- area of interest.
So just curious if you could give me a sense for the growth expectations as a mix percentage relative to the overall noninterest income.
Yes that -- there's really 3 components that are included in that line item: one is debit card revenues second is credit card fee revenues and third is more commercial payments revenues.
And we are investing in each of those 3 areas and we would expect that growth to outpace the rest of the bank and expect that to be an area of outperformance for us.
But keep in mind that these are not programs that we're designing to be national in footprint especially for the credit card and ATM.
It really is -- our debit card it's more based to serve our retail customer base and we feel there's a great opportunity to increase the penetration there but not something that we're going to -- becoming a national player.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
That's helpful.
And then also I think in the commentary there was some reference to some complexity associated with the prepaid cards.
I'm not sure I understood what that was referencing if you wouldn't mind clarifying that? Sure this is Chris.
I just mentioned that the large prepaid opportunities are complex transactions.
Sometimes they're with the issuers or government entities and I mentioned that there's a long lead time.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
And then just on a different note I know you've talked a lot about expenses.
One of the things I was curious about I mean you clearly laid out your expectations for charge-offs in your guidance.
And I was curious about how we should think about the interplay between higher charge-offs or if you will normalized charge-offs relative to workout-related costs.
From an expense standpoint it seems like the 2 are related and if charge-offs normalize then you should see an increase in those type of loan workout costs.
How should we think about that? Or do you feel that incrementally as you get -- even if you get to that 40-basis-points number there's not much of an incremental lift in those types of expenses? Yes this is Bill Hartmann.
I think if you take a look at what is actually driving the level of net charge-offs that we have right now and Don alluded to this when he discussed the level of recoveries and the gross charge-off level we have benefited from some strong recoveries in the latest quarter.
As the -- as those recoveries abate the cost of actually running your workout organization declines and we've had a fairly dramatic decline in the cost of our workout organization.
So we think that by normalizing it actually is a reduction in recoveries as well as continued improvement in the gross charge-off levels.
Research Division</strong> So another way of thinking about it is you don't expect any upward pressure from recovery-related expense -- workout-related cost going forward? No.
In fact probably the opposite continues.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to Slide 13 and I'll ask my question by way of an analogy.
If I played golf yesterday and shot 89 and I got a new driver a new lessons and a new caddie and then I promised to break 90 in 3 years you would say that I'm sandbagging a little bit.
And so what I see here is you guys shot 64.9% in the first quarter with your efficiency ratio.
You're committed to growing revenues faster than expenses.
And by 2017 you say you'll shoot under 65%.
So is this target rigorous enough? And I wouldn't know -- I have a separate peer group here we all have our peer groups but I have peers at 60%.
And I'd also point out as you know I pointed out before 2 decades ago -- and it's the 2-decade anniversary of KeyCorp as of March 1 the efficiency ratio was 58%.
So Beth under your -- as you as -- at the head efficiencies improved caps return improved the share price has improved.
You've outperformed peer but it just seems like looking out over the next 2 to 3 years this efficiency target doesn't go far enough.
Well Mike I appreciate it and we will take our golf lessons and invest in new golf clubs and wait for the weather to warm up one thing that hasn't come up in our call.
I would tell you that it is important that we felt it was a good thing for us to do to be responsive to the question to what sorts of things move us within the range.
And at this point in time we are not moving the range from 60% to 65% but we are showing the path to our ability to reduce within the range.
It is also important to note that the business growth is net of investment because I think it is important as you list the things that we have accomplished it is because we are also investing in our franchise that it's important that we grow this business in smart and appropriate ways.
And then as I look at our revenue mix we are -- about 60% of our income does come from our loan book which is a highly variable loan book not high-yielding consumer assets as I mentioned earlier on Gerard's question.
So some piece of it is embedded in our revenue component that we will drive growth through our business activity.
Interest rates will benefit our particular mix of business when the short end gets a little relief.
And it is on us.
And part of the reason we identified Fit for Growth to know that near term in a pressured revenue environment we must continue to work the expense side of the equation to create that progress without a benefit from interest rate.
So what we're trying to show is we are committed to a path to the low end of the range without any external help from the environment and we will consistently improve.
And as I said earlier we will be disciplined but constructively impatient as well.
The one thing I'd add there Mike as well is that as Beth highlighted it's taken us down to the lower end of 60% range with interest rates we'll be in the 50s.
Keep in mind too that back in 1994 Key had a margin of over 4% and we're right at 3% now.
And that won't improve without interest rates going up.
And so that does impact that efficiency ratio as well in addition to the additional -- the costs we're incurring associated with regulatory burdens today compared to 1994.
Research Division</strong> Well just a follow-up as you say some of that margin might not come back since you're more commercial-oriented today I guess what I'm looking for is some recognition that the efficiency is somehow related to structural issues especially after 2 decades.
I mean it would be nice to see ROE or at least ROA by state.
Maybe we have ROA by state somewhere and I couldn't find it or maybe you could disclose that.
It just seems to me out of all your states there might be a few that you could consider for divesting.
Any thought process about more structural changes at KeyCorp? Mike this is Beth.
Some piece of the discussion around our geographic footprint is against the broader business model where we are really also focused heavily on our commercial clients and the ability to integrate our corporate bank.
So while our geographic presence and physical branches are across the states in every market we also have additional business banking commercial private banking and corporate banking opportunities.
So the mix of our revenue is very fulsome in our various geographies.
And in a digital image-enabled world the cost of maintaining a branch network is not a driver of our structural inefficiency.
So I think as I look at the priorities I would set against our geographies is to drive more revenue from those physical presence and they are profitable.
Our next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask the opposite question from Mike.
You've certainly done a great deal with the company Beth.
I think we're happy to see that loan growth is finally starting to ramp up.
As one questioner said you've got plenty of capital.
So my question would be do you finally have the leeway to grow in some of these markets where you don't have as much market share as you would like? And my add-on question will be if so what would those markets be? Nancy I think that's a great question because some piece of how we are looking at the future is the interplay of digital and mobile and how that will affect both the consumer business but our relative positioning within markets.
And I think some piece of what might be the paradigm going forward is that I don't think any of us as you listen to myself and to my peers who will tell you that we don't believe that market presence and branches are still a core and important part of our value proposition in how we go to market across our various geographies.
But potentially density is less important.
Because as you think about it there is a transformational change.
So as part of what we are doing within our strategies is upping our investments in mobile digital and mobile and digital advertising as well so that as we connect those experiences between the branch online mobile digital that we have a value proposition that we think will also enhance our market growth over and above just investing in more physical stores.
So I think that's an exciting opportunity and that some of the old paradigms are shifting.
And then I think the emphasis that we have placed on commercial our middle market and business continuum of companies with sales of $25 million to $1.5 billion those squarely sit in our geographies.
And as we acquire and expand those relationships we get private banking opportunities we get incremental growth.
So I think we are growing our markets with our go-to-market business model.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my primary questions have been asked but Don the net charge-off ratio guidance I mean it's -- of below 0 -- of 40 basis points to 60 basis points I mean you're so far below that right now it's not even funny.
So just kind of wondering if I could get your thoughts on the relationship between the provision expense and the net charge-off ratio as you see over the next several quarters? Our guidance assumes that the charge-offs will equal provision.
So that's our expectation going into it but it will be adjusted based on changes in overall credit quality and outlook for losses inherent in the portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But your provision expense was lower than the charge-offs this quarter right? So is that something...
That's correct.
You're right.
It was.
It was $14 million lower this quarter.
You're right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so going forward it will start to match? That will be our expectation yes.
And our last question comes from Steve Scinicariello from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on something that I think is an important distinction that you're making between productivity improvement and efficiency improvement.
I just wanted to kind of get a little color about that.
Some of the things that you're doing to kind of drive productivity improvement because a lot of times when you say efficiency people just assume cost-cutting.
But clearly that with the progress that you guys are making it's both revenue- and expense-driven.
So just curious just to hear a little bit more of the success that you're having improving productivity how you're doing it.
And specifically how are you improving like the cross-sell in the corporate bank which seems to be a real big driver of this? Great.
I'll go ahead and take a first crack at that and then I'll turn it over to Chris as far as the corporate bank.
But as far as productivity if Dennis Devine were here and answering this question as it's related to retail he'd talk about the process that we put in place over a year ago as far as enhancing our overall sales management process in the retail channel.
And we would acknowledge that our sales per person in that branch have been lower than where our peers have been.
And we're taking steps to manage it with the expectations laid out on a weekly basis and measured on a daily basis to see how we can change that.
And so we're seeing significant improvements in our productivity in our branches.
And it's not about any type of rocket science.
It's making sure we have very clear expectations and holding people accountable to those expectations.
And we're seeing that progress.
And so that's one area of productivity.
Chris you want to talk about the corporate bank? Sure I'll be happy to Don.
So there's a few things we're focused on with respect to productivity.
The first that we talk about a lot are new clients and expanded relationships because we think we have a platform that we can leverage but we need to continue to add new clients and expand the relationships that we have and we have very specific targets around those.
We also spend a lot of time talking about the revenue per person.
For example right now on a trailing basis the revenue per person in the corporate bank is $830 000.
We've set some very specific goals around those as well.
The other thing that we're thinking about in terms of productivity is to leverage some of the investments that we've already made.
We talked earlier today about commercial payments.
We really need to leverage that.
Healthcare.
With -- throughout Key we have about a $7 billion health care portfolio and we have a company-wide effort to be very focused facilities-based health care on how we can deliver the whole platform.
And then we've invested a lot of time.
Beth alluded to the coordination and the collaboration between the corporate bank and the community bank which is very important in how we can be distinctive going to market.
So we spend a lot of time looking at that.
And then the last 2 pieces are things we've talked about before in terms of generating productivity.
One is strategic just kind of tuck-in type acquisitions.
And I think the BofA third-party commercial loan servicing portfolio would be a great example of that.
And lastly and most importantly is -- and it's one of the things that has an impact when you start comparing our efficiency ratio is continuing to invest in people.
Because we think our platform is under leveraged we're out there hiring people that have -- they're senior people that have existing relationships.
And there admittedly is a bit of a lag as you bring senior bankers onto the platform.
But we've proven to ourselves that they can be extremely productive.
So those are really the 4 prongs of the growth strategy.
And there are no questions in queue.
I'll now turn it back over to Beth Mooney for final comments.
Thank you operator.
And again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investors Relation team between Vern Patterson and Kelly Dillon at (216) 689-4221.
Thank you and that concludes our remarks for the day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimball our Chief Financial Officer.
Available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; EJ Burke Co-President of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Turning now to slide 3.
This was a good quarter for Key with solid financial results that reflect the successful execution of our strategy and continued progress on our commitment to one drive positive operating leverage.
Second to maintain strong risk management practices.
Third to remain disciplined in the way we manage our capital.
Our positive operating leverage from the prior year reflects the work we have done to capitalize on the strength of our business model and improve efficiency by both growing revenue and reducing expenses.
Compared to the year-ago period pre-provision net revenue was up 13%.
Positive revenue trends for both the prior year and previous quarter reflect solid loan growth driven by our commercial financial and agricultural loans.
CF&amp;A loans were up $3 billion or 13% from the second quarter of last year.
We have been pleased with the quality of our new loan originations but we continue to see loan yields impacted by the competitive pricing environment.
Non interest income benefited from the strength in our investment banking and debt placement fees which were up 18% from both the prior year and the prior quarter.
Coupled with our solid loan growth these results reaffirm the strength of our business model and our success in growing market share.
Expenses were down $22 million or 3% from the prior year and in line with our guidance.
Our second-quarter results reflect normal seasonal trends and the acceleration of charges related to our continuous improvement effort.
We remain committed to further improvement on expenses and efficiency and Don will discuss more on our path forward in his remarks.
Our strong risk management practices resulted in another quarter of very good credit-quality trends.
Net charge offs to average loans were 22 basis points well below our targeted range.
Nonperforming assets declined 41% from the year-ago period.
Our NPA ratio is down to 74 basis points.
Importantly we continue to originate new business that has better overall risk rating than our existing portfolio.
While the environment remains competitive we are remaining disciplined with structure and staying true to our relationship strategy.
Capital management also remains one of our top priorities.
In the second quarter we began executing on our 2014 capital plan by repurchasing $108 million in common shares and increasing our quarterly dividend by 18% to $0.065 per common share.
These actions put us on a path to remain among the highest in our peer group for total shareholder payout the second consecutive year.
Over the past few years we have also used our capital to drive opportunistic growth through acquisitions of commercial mortgage servicing credit card and branches.
Today we announced another strategically important investment which is highlighted on the next slide.
Moving now to slide 4.
Pacific Crest Securities is a leading technology-focused investment bank and capital markets firm.
This acquisition underscores our commitment to be a leading corporate and investment bank serving middle-market companies.
The comprehensive platform aligns with our industry expertise and gives us another important industry vertical.
Adding technology expertise accelerates our momentum and will provide us the opportunity to add and expand client relationships.
Clients will benefit from our broad capabilities as well as the expertise we will now bring to the market around technology trend that are intersecting and impacting our other industry verticals.
We anticipate the transaction will close in the third quarter of this year subject to standard regulatory approvals.
I am very excited about this acquisition and pleased with our overall financial results for the quarter.
We have good momentum in our core businesses and our strategy and business model continue to provide a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Now I will turn it over to Don who will comment further on our second-quarter results.
Don?  Thanks Beth.
Slide 5 provides highlights from the Company's second-quarter 2014 results.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.27 per common share for the second quarter compared to $0.21 for the second quarter of 2013 and $0.26 from the first quarter of this year.
I will cover many of this in my remarks so I will now turn slide 7.
Average total loan growth remained solid in the second quarter with balances up $2.9 billion or 6% compared to a year-ago quarter and up $0.9 billion or an un-annualized 2% compared to the first quarter.
Our growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans which was broad-based across Key's business lending segments.
Average commercial financial and agricultural loans were up $3 billion or 13% compared to the prior year and up $1.1 billion or 4% un-annualized from the first quarter.
In the second quarter total commitments were up with utilization rates relatively stable.
As Beth mentioned the lending environment continues to be competitive.
By remaining disciplined with our relationship focus the quality and structure of our new business has held strong.
Our outlook for loan growth for 2014 remains consistent with our prior guidance of mid single-digit full-year growth driven by CF&amp;A.
Continue on to slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits were up $1.6 billion from a year ago and up $0.8 billion from the first quarter.
Deposit growth of 2% from the prior year and 1% for the prior quarter was largely driven by inflows from commercial clients as well as increases related to our commercial mortgage servicing business.
As a result of continued focus on improving deposit mix year-over-year interest-bearing liability cost declined from 62 basis points to 52 basis points.
Turning to slide 9.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $579 million for the second quarter compared to $586 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $569 million in the first quarter of this year.
Our net interest margin was 2.98% which was down 2 basis points from the prior quarter.
Results in second quarter reflect the impact of a leveraged lease early termination which reduced net interest income by $2 million and our margin by 1 basis point.
The reported decline in net interest income and the net interest margin from the prior year was attributable to the competitive environment lower asset yields and loan fees as well as a leveraged lease early termination.
These items were partially offset by loan growth maturity of higher rate CDs and a more favorable mix of our lower-cost deposits.
Compared to the first quarter of this year net interest income was up $10 million primarily due to the continued loan growth and the benefit of the day count and an improvement in funding costs.
For the full-year 2014 we expect net interest income to be relatively stable with reported level in 2013 with potential for downward pressure do to the competitive environment.
We also expect to maintain our modest asset sensitivity position.
As we have highlighted before we have the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate-risk position.
The duration and characteristics of Key's loan investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield cover.
Slide 10 shows a summary of non interest income which accounts for approximately 44% of our total revenue.
Non interest income in the second quarter was $455 million up $26 million or 6% from the second quarter of last year and up $20 million or 5% from the first quarter of 2014.
The year-over-year increase was due to stronger investment banking and debt placement fees as well as principal investing and a $17 million gain from the leveraged lease termination that I mentioned earlier.
Improvement in the first quarter was primarily related to the stronger investment banking and debt placement fees which were up $15 million as well as the leveraged lease termination gain.
We also saw increases in normal seasonal trends in areas like deposit service charges and cards and payments income.
As Beth mentioned strength in the investment banking and debt placement fee helps illustrate the benefits of our business model which allow us to capitalize on revenue opportunities whether they are through execution in the capital markets when conditions are favorable or by offering on-balance fee alternatives.
Turn to slide 11.
Non interest expense for the second quarter was $689 million down $22 million from a year-ago period and up $27 million from the first quarter.
Second-quarter expenses included $24 million in charges related to the efficiency initiatives which added 2.3% to our efficiency ratio.
Expense levels reflect normal seasonality in the area such as marketing and personnel as well as elevated efficiency charges due to the acceleration of our continuous improvement efforts.
Specific actions this quarter included closing 18 branches a 20% reduction in the headcount in our fixed income trading business and the exit of our international leasing business.
In the second half of the year we would expect expense levels to remain relatively stable with the second quarter in the $680 million to $690 million range.
Quarterly results may be impacted by the timing of expense savings and efficiency charges and the pace of investments and merger-related charges related to Pacific Crest.
Moving on to slide 12.
Our year to date we have recognized $34 million and efficiency related charges.
We would anticipate additional charges in the second half of the year at a level more comparable to what we experienced in the first quarter.
This will likely bring efficiency charges for the full year to the upper end of our range of 1% to 2% of 2013 expenses.
Importantly our guidance for the second half of the year is consistent with our previous outlook for 2014 expenses which is down in the low to mid single-digit percentage range from the prior year.
We remain committed to continuing to generate cost savings through our continuous improvement efforts which will enable us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
Slide 13 is our path to achieve the lower end of our cash efficiency ratio target of 60% to 65% over the next two to three year period.
We expect the improvement to come from growing our business both organically and through strategic investments as well as from additional expense reductions.
Importantly this assumes no benefit from higher interest rates.
If rates move in line with the forward curve we would expect this to move our efficiency ratio below our targeted range.
Turning to slide 14.
Net charge-offs were $30 million or 22 basis points on average loans in the second quarter which continues to be below our targeted range.
In the second quarter net charge-offs benefited from improvement in total gross charge-offs which were down 24% from the prior year and down 2% from the prior quarter.
Commercial loan charge-offs continued to be a good story with recoveries exceeding charge-offs by $3 million in the second quarter.
The breakdown of asset quality by loan portfolio is shown on slide 22 of the appendix.
At June 30 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.46% of period end loans and 206% coverage of our nonperforming loans.
Importantly as Beth mentioned the quality of the new business volume has consistently been better than that of our existing portfolio.
We expect net charge-offs to remain below the target range of 40 to 60 basis points for the remainder of the year and for the loan loss provision to approximate the level of net charge-offs.
Turning the slide 15.
Our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remain strong at June 30 at 10.15% and 11.33% respectively.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $108 million or 7.8 million common shares in the second quarter.
We also increased our quarterly common share dividend by 18% to $0.065 per share.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitment to remaining disciplined in managing our strong capital position.
Our Tier 1 common ratio remained above 11% while we have paid out a peer leading amount of capital to our shareholders.
Moving on to slide 16.
This summary of our 2014 outlook and expectations is consistent with my comments today.
As I stated earlier we expect average loans to continue to grow year over year in the mid single-digit range and our net interest income to remain relatively stable with our reported level in 2013.
Revenue should benefit from the full-year low signal-digit growth and non interest income compared to the prior year.
We continue to anticipate expenses will be down low- to mid-single digits on a full-year basis.
This guidance reflects the impact of implemented expense savings planned investments as well as future costs associated with implementing additional cost-saving initiatives.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points for the remainder of year.
Finally capital management will remain a priority including continuing to execute on our share repurchase authorization.
With that I'll close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions) One moment for our first question.
And well go to the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Beth I wanted to first ask you a little bit about the acquisition.
Was this able to use some of your excess capital? Can you deploy cash into these types of acquisitions? How do you think about this going forward?  Yes Marty.
This is a cash acquisition for us and it is an opportunity for us to build out a differentiated platform and consistent with our desire to expand our industry verticals so it will be cash.
It is not a material transaction in terms of its size but we think it's significantly proceeds its size for what it's going to do for us within our Corporate banking platform.
Do you see these types of acquisitions  because through the cash side you can use a little bit of that excess capital that's trapped on the balance sheet.
Do you see some other opportunities going forward to be able to look to use some of your excess capital?  Marty we have always said that one of the opportunities we will have through time is how we can deploy some capital not only to support organic growth but you've seen us over the last couple years deploy capital for commercial mortgage servicing we brought back in our credit card portfolio.
So yes some piece of the advantage I believe that we have is the levels of our capital will both support inorganic growth organic growth as well as clearly a high priority which is return of capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Thanks.
Don on the efficiency ratio you broke out this time the adjustment for what you have in charges each quarter.
You've kind of showed what was interesting is why it's been a downward trend.
There's also been some seasonality with fourth quarter and typically second quarter is a little bit higher.
But you broke that trend this quarter with once you take the charge out the actual efficiency ratio operating wise went down from first to second quarter.
It seems like expenses came in a little better than what I expected.
I just was curious if there were a little bit more traction in the efficiency gains this quarter than what we've seen in the past?  We continue to move for additional efficiency gains and they could be lumpy at times as far as their benefit.
I think you highlighted some key points there that despite the fact that we had some increases in our marketing costs lean quarter and some other items like that that our core efficiency ratio did show improvement.
That's something we're striving for over the long haul.
Lastly you mentioned just a statement you have that you said a couple of times that the incremental loan growth is of higher quality than your existing portfolio.
I think that foreshadows better asset quality trends as we go forward but why is it so much better than what you would've had in the past? What makes it different with what you're seeing in the market today than what you've been able to build over time?  Marty this is Bill Hartmann.
One of the things that we've seen is the focus that we have had in the last couple of years on our relationship strategy has really focused us on who we want to do business with.
If you take a look at the portfolio that we had we continue to see de-risking occurring in that portfolio.
Part of that is driven by the improvement in the new business that's going in and part of it by the improvement in the existing portfolio.
Bill would you think that would lower your targeted charge-off rate at some point if that continues?  We know that right now it is changing it is lowering our probability of default.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you   Thank you.
Well go to the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Can you guys share with us how long it took when KeyCorp bought McDonald's and Company how long it took to fully integrate it where you guys were comfortable that it was working very effectively? Sure Gerard.
This is Chris Gorman.
Just a little bit of history for the group.
McDonald was acquired by Key in 1998 and the businesses were really run independently until 2003 when we put about 17 businesses together to form our Corporate and Investment bank.
Admittedly Gerard it took probably two or three years before we really started to get the rhythm of being very targeted as Bill Hartmann just mentioned in who we want to do business with.
And really getting focused in our industry verticals which as you know is how we go to market and how we've been successful.
Clearly anytime you acquire a group of people and in this instance where acquiring 170 people that are very very good at what they do in technology there's obviously integration challenges.
I'm really pleased though in this instance this was not an auction by any stretch of the imagination.
This is a negotiated deal that we've been working on since September of last year.
So A we've done it before and B we've been working on this particular transaction and how were going to go to market obviously for the better part of a year now.
That just gives you a little bit of history.
Thank you.
Obviously in this type of business the people part of it is extremely important how do you expect to keep the key players at Pacific Crest with you? Second when you look back to the McDonald deal are there many people left from the original McDonald transaction that were key people back then that may or may not be here today?  I will start with the first part and then I'll address the second part.
With respect to the first part Gerard we had a very specific list of people as we got to know the company that we thought it was imperative that we had their hearts and minds and that they believed in the shared vision going forward.
In fact each of those people each and every one of those folks have executed as a condition of us entering into this agreement a retention agreement so that's a good start.
What really will drive this though is the notion of a shared vision.
One we know we can plug this industry vertical i.e.
technology into our business but the real opportunity the real long-term opportunity is what we call convergence.
That is the way technology is now infused across all business and particularly the six industry verticals that we operate in.
That's what I think people both here and at Pacific Crest are really excited about.
With respect to McDonald investments as you know we sold the retail piece and we sold that fairly early.
With respect to the people that were on the banking platform many of those people are still here today.
I was obviously part of that Randy Paine who is going to be responsible for driving this integration was on that platform as was the Chief Operating Officer of the broker dealer Doug Preiser.
So there are a lot of people actually in this building today that came over as part of the McDonald acquisition way back in 1998.
Great.
Lastly Don do your results for the current quarter reflect the shared national accredited exam results? I know some of the lead banks out of New York were given their results so do the reserves or the reclassification of any loans that may have occurred because of the shared national credit exam are those reflected in your credit quality statistics this quarter?  This is Bill Hartman again.
Yes it does.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) One moment for the next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more on the commercial lending environment? You'd had a couple of really strong quarters and then just looking at the commercial financial agricultural owning up $100 million this quarter.
Understanding that you're being selective and that it's competitive out there but can you give us a flavor for what you guys are seeing throughout your verticals in customer base? Is this at all really leaving some growth on the table or is there some slowdown that we've seen recently that wouldn't have shown necessarily in the industry data versus what you guys are doing? </strong>  Ken this is Chris.
Let me take a pass at that if I could.
First of all and I will speak just for the Corporate bank and then I'll turn it over to EJ Burke who will give you some insight into what's going on in the Community bank.
From a Corporate bank perspective we continue to see good loan growth.
If you look year-over-year we are up 14.5%.
On a linked-quarter basis where up 4.3%.
Candidly we see the momentum continuing.
Now because of our model because were able to toggle between being a principal and being an agent you will see fluctuations because we only put about 15% of the capital we raise on our balance sheet.
We think look it's a challenging market out there in a variety of ways.
Is there pricing pressure? Yes there's some.
Is there some pressure on structure? There is.
What we're really finding is with our targeted approach Ken the deals that we're going after that we want to put on our balance sheet we're putting on her balance sheet.
The clients that we go after and we don't really chase loans or any other product per se what we really go after are clients.
We're able to capture those clients.
While it's always competitive and it's always a challenging environment we feel pretty good about how the business looks going forward.
Ken this is EJ Burke.
I would say that our pipelines have been growing.
In the second quarter we did see the same level of competition that we've seen throughout the year.
In our lower-end size client we're competing against smaller community banks where it appears that there is a lot more competition around structure.
Like Chris said we're being selective.
We're being very disciplined around our relationship strategy and we're very comfortable with the pace of growth that we have in that business.
Ken this is Don.
I may have misspoken on the call but our growth in CF&amp;A lending at one quarter is $1 billion and year-over-year is $3 billion.
So I want to make sure that that growth rate is actually at a faster pace this quarter than what we've seen in the previous couple quarters.
Okay.
I was just looking at the period end up 100% on page 23 on period-end basis.
Second question Don can you just also talk a little bit about where you guys stand now on LCR compliance? It didn't look like you really built much more on the security's book.
Is that pretty much done and do you have any anticipation that you'd have to either continue to expand your liquidity base through either sub debt or other non-deposit funding from here?  Ken we're still waiting for the final rules to come through but if they come through in the line with our expectations most of our effort is really shifting the mix of that investment portfolio away from agencies to Ginnie Maes.
As of the end of the second quarter we had about 31% of our portfolio in Ginnie Maes.
We'll continue to take the cash flows from the portfolio and reinvest it that way and that will take us north of a third of our portfolio by the end of the year in that category of which we believe should position us well for LCR compliance.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks Don.
<br>Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
In terms of the actual impact for Pacific Crest for full-year 2015 in the income statement could you give us a sense of what that could be?  Erika this is Don.
As we've mentioned before it won't be a material acquisition from a pure P&amp;L perspective.
We would say that over the last 12 months revenues have been in the $80 million range.
Just to give you a perspective of the size.
Got it.
I will follow up off-line thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Yes.
I think my first one is following on Ken's The difference between average loan growth at end of period was pretty considerable.
Was there any large payoff or large payoff Don that impacted that? Just because the end-of-period balances were much lower here.
It certainly doesn't sound like there's anything that impacts your outlook for the full year but just am curious why there's such a big delta between the average and end of period this quarter?  Yes Scott.
As far as the impact we had a couple of things that did impact the period-end balances.
If you look at our exit portfolio it was down $325 million point to point and that included the impact of the leveraged lease transaction that we mentioned before which was over $100 million as far as the balances.
Chris also referenced earlier that we can see some timing differences from point to point as far as deals that would close and the use of our balance sheet versus access of other markets for our customers.
That had an impact.
As you also articulated that even with that change in the position that we still are reiterating our outlook as far as mid single-digit growth year-over-year in loan growth.
Okay perfect that make sense.
I appreciate it.
Just one kind of ticky-tack question.
The tax rate was a little lower this quarter.
I know in the past when you have leveraged lease transactions they've had an impact on the tax rate.
Did that do anything this quarter? Just the basic question is was there anything in the tax rate and what would be your expectation for the remainder of the year?  Yes the leveraged lease transaction did have an impact on the tax rate.
On a normal basis we would expect that rate to be in the 26% 28% range so that clearly had a benefit this quarter.
Okay.
That's perfect.
Thanks a lot Don.
<br>Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Curious given your exposure on the commercial bank side and how strong you are there it doesn't make sense the strength that we've seen in C&amp;I lending in what's continued to be a slow GDP backdrop and not a lot of CapEx.
What do you see the clients building up the credit usage for? Just curious what you're seeing?  Keith it's Chris.
To your point we have not seen a lot of plant expansion.
What we have seen is a lot of strategic discussions.
Business is a dynamic thing.
If you look at  I think everyone was a little disappointed with the growth rates in the first quarter in terms of GDP.
But like we are doing with our announcement of Pacific Crest many of our clients are looking to grow strategically.
If you look our M&amp;A business our fees are up year over year about 134%.
I just looked at the deals that we had approved through our commitment committee.
Those are up 29%.
So you have a situation where people are sitting on a lot of cash.
There's not a lot of growth to be had and so people are looking to grow strategically.
A couple other areas were think were seeing a little bit of pickup.
Yesterday in talking to our leader in our leasing business we're seeing a pickup in terms of medical equipment.
During the Affordable Healthcare Act and some of the uncertainty around that that actually went down a little bit.
Now we are seeing investment by large hospitals.
The other thing that I think were seeing a little bit of is for the first time in a long time people are starting to see a little bit of inflation in some of the raw material inputs that they need to run their business.
Of course that encourages people a little bit to go out and get some inventory.
Keith one other area while you asked on the loan side specifically I know Chris has talked about with our platform investment banking and debt placement fees being up they are participating in those strategic discussions and some of the benefit you see is coming through in that strong growth.
Investment banking is in our M&amp;A advisory book as well.
EJ would you like to give some color on middle market?  Yes Beth.
Part of what Chris mentioned around strategic acquisitions that can be a double-edged sword for us.
We've seen some of our private companies be sold which means that we get paid down.
Then alternatively some of our other clients have been buying other companies so that has definitely had an impact on our portfolio.
I would say though in the second quarter we did start to see some borrowing for expansion.
First time in a while.
Thanks very much.
(indiscernible) with the Hassle-Free checking account you guys came out with?  I'm sorry Keith you cut off there because we did not hear the entire question.
Could you repeat it please?  I'm sorry.
Just asking on the Hassle-Free checking account that you guys came out with what's the philosophy behind that and the return profile you think about that over the long term?  Keith I'll go ahead and take that one.
Hassle-Free is a new account offering for us that we put into the market and supported obviously with our increased marketing spend was to promote that launch as well as what is always our spring home equity borrowing season.
It is designed for ease.
It is designed for convenience.
It is designed to help create utilization of lower-cost channels and alternative channels such as online and mobile.
It has been met with good market receptance.
We're only six weeks or so into the launch but have had a meaningful increase in overall traffic number of new accounts and it is both an attractor of new clients.
But it is also an opportunity as we get them in to profile and cross sell.
I would tell you we are very encouraged by early results and it is like I said still early days but it has been a very positive market positioning and market reaction for us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick question on the leveraged lease termination I think you mentioned it had a $2 million impact on NII and a little bit on NIM.
Does that have any carryover impact in the third quarter given the timing of the termination?  This is Don.
It really doesn't have much of an impact in the third quarter.
Most of it was really just the gain realized this quarter and some slight impact future quarters but not significant.
Okay.
Thanks.
Then just one other question.
In terms of the RISO ratio I hear what you're saying that charge-offs are going to remain below your normalized guidance but when you think about the reserves at 1.46% right now of loans.
Where do you see that stabilizing? The questions also stems around some banks may be getting a little more pressure to stabilize the reserves as opposed to continue releasing.
Are you at the point where you feel that you're at a stable level or is there more downside to the reserve side  ratios?  Ken this is Bill Hartmann.
We spend a significant amount of time each quarter evaluating the portfolio and what we think the expected losses are out of that portfolio in establishing the appropriate reserve levels.
As we close out each quarter just like we did this quarter we think that it's set at the appropriate level but we'll continue to evaluate that going forward.
Understood.
I understand how it's always at the appropriate level.
My question is when you envision given the higher-quality loans that you're putting on where that ends up being? Or more specifically are you seeing or hearing any pressure from the regulators or other sources that may want that not to decline from here?  The conversations that we have with the regulators are very similar to what I described.
They're not telling us that we should increase or decrease.
What they are making sure is that were intelligent in the way we go about evaluating the appropriate level of our reserves.
Alright.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just a couple quick questions on fee income.
Obviously a strong quarter for fee income and investment banking and principal investment income in particular.
It sounds from your commentary around investment banking as if trends in that business are good.
Is this is a good run rate for this quarter or do you think you pull back a little bit to more like where you've been running?  Bob it's Chris.
As you know well in this business there'll always be a fair amount of fluctuation quarter-to-quarter.
As you go back historically typically we for example ramp up in the fourth quarter.
Rather than give any guidance on what should be a run rate what I will share with you is across the board our pipelines are stronger today than they were one year ago.
Obviously when these deals hit if they hit obviously there's a fair amount of variability.
Okay.
That's fair.
The principal investment income how should we think about that line?  Historically we've said that was a mid-teen type of number but I'd say over the last four quarter the average for that line item has been $22 million.
Even though it was high this quarter it was not that much higher than what we've been experienced over recent quarters.
Great.
Then the operating lease income line I know you guys highlighted the $17 million termination gain this quarter.
Is the right way to think about that line is take out that one-time gain and then that's in the ballpark or in the business is assuming no further gains? I know you guys have had several recently.
Bob on that line item we also had an additional $5 million negative adjustment to some lease residual values.
So I don't think you'd want to pull out the entire $17 million based on that.
Okay.
That's good to know.
Great.
I think those are my questions thank you.
And well go the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Please go ahead.
In your call I've heard the competitive environment referenced more times than I have in some of the others.
That's historically consistent with what we've seen in the Midwest in terms of competition.
Would you just look back at the competitive environment in past cycles is it better than worse than whatever this time around?  Nancy it's Chris.
Let me speak from a corporate banking side.
I certainly think that what we're seeing right now is consistent with where we are in the cycle.
I don't think from either a structure or a pricing perspective we're seeing a lot of aberrations.
Specifically as we go to market based on industry verticals obviously that spans geography and what we see is healthy competition.
But as I mentioned we find that with our targeted prospects and clients we are able to garner new clients.
We're able to win business so we don't see it as particularly challenging vis--vis other cycles.
The one thing I would say and EJ Burke can probably comment more and Beth can comment more on this I think as you get to smaller companies I think the competitive dynamic is a little bit different.
Nancy I would just add that I think one thing that we've all talked about over the last year and I know we've commented on our calls that the competitive intensity in some way seems to intensify as you go down in size of asset and market company because the field of competitors broadens out from community banks regional banks large banks non-bank competitors.
That is an area where we see actually a high competitive intensity.
You mentioned the Midwest.
I would tell you it's not geographic per se.
I think it is a function of how many competitors are in a market and there's just a broader set for the middle market in small business lending.
If I could ask a part B to that question it would be in the area of deposit competition.
We haven't seen so much of that in this cycle but as rates go up what you anticipate? Is Hassle-Free checking one of the products that you're preparing for that era or is there a different reason for that?  Nancy you're right as far as the deposits have not been as much of an issue that most banks have a lower loan-to-deposit ratio today than what they historically have had.
It probably hasn't been that bigger as a pricing.
If you look at the last rate cycle of 2004 to 2006 the change in our deposit rates correlated about 55% of LIBOR.
So we did see a beta of about 55%.
We would expect going forward it would probably be somewhere in that range.
And there are probably other components that we would expect to see including some migration from some of the non-interest-bearing deposits into interest-bearing and probably some deployment of some of the excess funds that are being parked on balance sheets.
Generally we wouldn't think that would be a significant impact to our overall deposit position.
Nancy I would just add that our mix of deposits has changed dramatically and to the better over the last couple of years where we have really brought in core relationship deposits of both our commercial and consumer businesses.
As Don mentioned some of those companies are carrying higher levels of liquidity that they may draw down some as the rate cycle changes but I think they will forever hold more liquidity than they did in the past.
Indeed Hassle-Free is yet another product to bring in core transactional relationship consumer accounts which further solidifies the quality mix of our deposits.
Thank you.
And well go to the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
On the diluted share count that's increased over the quarter despite the buyback.
Could you explain what was happening there please? Sure.
We have a convertible preferred security on our balance sheet.
Once we hit an EPS level of $0.27 a share the accounting rules change from taking your net income less the dividends to average shares to actually reflect that preferred as being converted.
So it actually has about 20 million shares to our base.
Then you basically don't deduct the preferred dividend in your EPS calculation.
No significant impact in overall EPS but it does show a little bit different geography as far share count.
And the trigger is using that $0.27 of EPS?  That's correct.
Then just to follow up there was the discontinued operations the charge there and then there was I think $6 million negative that dropped out in non controlling interest.
On both of those could you explain what was happening in a bit more detail?  As far as the discontinued operations that this quarter we reassessed the valuation of the student loan securitization assets that we have on our balance sheet.
What we essentially had as of the end of the first quarter was a net asset value of about $86 million.
With more recent information that we have seen as far as valuations on recent transactions especially in the private student loan category resulted in us taking an adjustment to that valuation.
That's what you've seen come through the discontinued operations line item this quarter.
As far as the non-controlling interest that there really wasn't anything of significance in that $6 million adjustment.
So not something you've seen in the last few quarters but nothing in particular you can call out?  Nothing that would be worthy of calling out or saying that would be an expectation of continuing going forward just a minor adjustments.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions) Well go to the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
You said Pacific Crest had 12 month revenues of $80 million so that would base on the second quarter boost your Investment banking capital market find by about 1/5th?  Well it would show through in a couple categories.
It would be in the Investment banking debt placement.
It would also come through the asset management and brokerage services.
So it would also come through that trust and investment services income which includes the brokerage revenue.
Okay.
Then just to follow up before my main question you said that the average credit rating that's coming in in new business is better than what you have on your books.
I know you already had a question on that topic but it just seems a little unusual.
I mean new loans are that much better? Can you quantify the amount that they're better based on your internal risk categories or some other quantitative factor?  Mike this is Bill Hartmann.
If you take a look at the fact that we have a portfolio that over the last several years has been improving in quality.
And you can see the metrics that flow through from quarter-to-quarter on things like nonperforming loan statistics criticize classified statistics and the rest and you've seen the reduction in the net charge-offs you're seeing that improvement in the base portfolio.
The new business is based on our relationship strategy and so we are out and bringing new business in that is one with the better customers on our balance sheet already and we add additional business with those customers or new customers to Key that are part of the targeted strategies that EJ and Chris have.
So that natural mix has been occurring.
The difference the delta between those two statistics has been narrowing.
Obviously the portfolio that we have has been improving and so the impact of the high-quality new business is not as great as it was a year ago.
Mike just one other thing on the mix.
For example in our real estate book if you look back three years we would have a whole lot of construction and less REIT exposure and what we've done is it's been a direct shift away from construction to REITs for example in real estate.
That would be an example of the mix shift part of that strategy.
That's helpful and that's good in contrast to one other item I see in the slides.
To tell you the truth I thought it was a typo at first.
You'll find that's my sarcastic way of saying I cannot believe that your efficiency target is 60% to 65% 2 years to 3 years out.
So that if in 2017 you have a 65% expense-to-revenue ratio that will be within the bounds that the Company is setting? I know we've talked about this a lot Beth but this is the first time I've seen a 2- to 3-year outlook with an efficiency range like that.
One question is has the Board approved that efficiency target that high that far out? This is just  look you know I've covered this Company for 20 years but that is just abnormally complacent.
I just can't believe it as I look at that now.
I will say I've talked to some people today and they've seen that also and I just can't believe that target.
Can you just help me out this because you've done a very well for shareholders the past couple of years and as I asked a couple quarters ago is this it? Have we seen the most aggressive gains? Your thoughts about that efficiency target?  Yes Mike I will go ahead address that.
We do have a slide in our deck that we have used at investor conferences and in this call trying to help frame the 2 year to 3 year path which is how do we move within the range of 60% to 65%? It clearly shows that we are projecting that over the next several years we will come down to the low end of that range.
Additionally as Don has mentioned a couple of times it does not include the benefit of interest rates.
So that it is merely based on our attempts to grow our Company appropriately manage expenses do those investments that we believe are accretive to our platform in our business mix while offsetting normal cost pressures.
We see ourselves coming down to the low end and if you overlaid the forward interest rate curve not speculating one way or another but just the forward curve it would show us going into the high 50%s.
We are very as you know we have talked about it conscious of the things we need to do to both operate our business grow our Company as well as continue to become a more efficient and effective Company.
Just one follow up.
Just remind us maybe the three most important priorities that should improve the efficiency ratio regardless of whether or not we are happy with the target or not?  Mike this is Don.
I would say the three biggest areas for us is continue to get more productivity and so we need to get more from our existing resources including greater sales activity.
We've seen some notable improvements in those areas already and so were on a good path.
I'd say continue to manage our expenses more efficiently.
We're doing a lot of reviews of end-to-end type of process management and we think those will continue to have strong payback for us.
As we've talked about before Mike I would say some of the categories of expenses that will reflect those benefits would include the personnel line item as well as occupancy.
We continue to manage that down as well.
Okay.
Did the Board approve that target being three years out?  We always when we do our reviews with the Board do have a 2- to 3-year view of the business trends so we have shared this with them in our strategic reviews.
Alright.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
I had a question about hold sizes on loans.
I'm assuming those haven't changed but if you could just confirm whether or not your hold sizes particularly in your commercial loans have increased? The other thing is in addition to participating in Shared National Credits and in that program are there any other type of balance sheet structures that you might contemplate using in order to go after bigger deal sizes and in offloading some of that loan exposure? If you could talk about that a little that would be helpful? Thank you.
Sameer hi this is Bill Hartman.
On the first topic of the hold sizes on the loans we have  if you saw any change in the hold size it would be related to the quality of the companies.
As the credit quality has improved we have a scale like most banks do that says that for the better rated clients you can hold more than for the lower or worse rated clients.
We've seen improvement in the quality of the borrowers in our portfolio.
On average you probably saw some increase in the hold sizes in the loans that are related to that.
With regards to utilizing structures or trying to go into the market and acquire loans just to build loans that is actually inconsistent with the relationship strategy that we've been articulating for the last couple of years.
We have a very disciplined approach to how and who we want to do business with.
I know there are some banks out there that are looking at growing by just putting structures in place or dealing with other bank syndication desks but that's not her strategy.
That's inconsistent.
What is our strategy though it enables us to play bigger than we are is to have the capability to distribute.
We lead 70% of the syndicated finance deals that we're involved with.
We can distribute paper to the private markets to the public markets in our real estate business.
We have a very large agency business Fannie Freddie FHA which is HUD.
We can go to the life companies.
We can go to the CMBS market.
That Sameer is how we go to the marketplace keep our risk profile at a moderate risk profile but be able to serve our clients.
Okay.
That's helpful detail.
Then on a different note one of the things I was just curious about is as you went through the CCAR process and initially were preparing for the CCAR I was curious if you used external consultants to build your stress testing models and the like? The reason I asked this question is because it seems like some banks that may have gone through the CCAR for the first time may not have used external consultants.
What I'm getting at is it seems like at least from what I understand that maybe regulators actually favor the use of third parties because then they have more confidence in those stress testing models.
I'm curious if you agree with that view? If you actually did use third-party consultants while building your stress testing models and just to give your perspective on this issue?  This is Bill Hartman.
We did not use third parties to the build our models.
We have a significant amount of modeling capability in-house both on the building of the models and the validation of the models.
Again our history is a bit longer than some of the banks that are just coming into this now so I think we've been at this between SCAMP and CCAR now about five years.
Over that period of time we have when it comes to building models and validating models we have quite a bit of in-house capability.
Okay thank you.
I just actually had a last question.
You did talk about commercial loan growth and discussed at length but I was just curious on slide 7 you talked about your commitments growing with the utilization relatively stable.
It seems like a lot of banks have been talking about utilization actually increasing.
So is that just the optics of utilization just because your commitments have grown so whether or not that utilization is stable but on existing commitments are seeing increased draw downs on that.
Is that the way to think about it?  I would say that overall our utilization rates are fairly stable so it hasn't seen much movement as far as the overall aggregate utilization rate.
We did see a slight pick up in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter but relatively stability here in the second quarter.
And well now go to the next and final question Jack Micenko with SIG.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is actually Ming on Jack's team.
I just had a quick question.
Going back to the Pac Crest acquisition for a second some of their officers are in Boston San Fran New York so places where Key doesn't have much of a presence.
Does this acquisition actually change your thinking on your footprint? Or are you thinking about switching that up a little bit?  This is Chris.
Actually it doesn't change our thinking with respect to footprint because within these businesses we've always gone to market through industry verticals as opposed to geography.
As it so happens we are in most of the cities that they are in which gives us an opportunity to work together.
Lastly which I think is very fortuitous Portland happens to be a very large base for Key.
We like large bases because we think that teams of people learn from each other.
And it just so happens they're headquartered in Portland and we think we can leverage that a bit particularly through our Community bank.
Okay great Thanks.
We have no further questions in queue.
I would now like to turn the call over to our speakers for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
We thank all of you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investors Relations team at 216-689-4221.
That concludes our remarks for this morning thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorp's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
<br> At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorp's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's presentation is Don Kimball our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; EJ Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide two is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Turning to slide three.
Keys third quarter reflects solid trends in our core businesses good credit quality and disciplined capital management.
However overall results did not meet our expectations.
We will provide more color and context around our results as well our expectations for improvement in the fourth quarter.
In both the Community and Corporate Bank revenue increased relative to previous quarter; however the improvement was more than offset by lower gains from principal investing and leverage lease terminations.
Average loans increased 5% from the year ago period driven by a 11% increase in commercial financial and agricultural loans.
Linked quarter average balances showed a modest increase.
Our commercial loan growth was negatively impacted by seasonality capital markets activity and the exit of non- strategic assets.
Period end loan numbers were up 1% reflecting growth late in the quarter and that momentum has continued into early October.
We continue to make progress on our client focused strategy including growth in retail clients and increasing sales productivity across our franchise.
Late in the third quarter we also closed the acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities adding an important new industry vertical and underscoring our commitment to being the leading corporate and investment bank serving middle market clients.
There was a fair amount of activity in the expense line this quarter.
A pension settlement charge and our Pacific Crest acquisition added $26 million.
Absent those items core expenses were well controlled and were down from the prior year and previous quarter as well as below our guidance range.
Additionally we incurred $15 million in charges related to our efficiency initiatives in the quarter.
Our reported efficiency ratio was 69.5% for the quarter and we do not find this acceptable.
The ratio excluding pension and efficiency charges was 66% which was above our previous run rate and was largely a result of lower revenues in a few categories.
It is important to note that we expect this number to come down next quarter and to continue to make progress on our efficiency goals.
Don will discuss more about our path forward in his remarks.
Our strong risk management practices resulted in another quarter of good quality trends.
Net charge-offs to average loans were 22 basis points well below our targeted range.
Non-performing assets declined 28% from the year ago period and our non-performing asset ratio is down to 74 basis points.
Our level of new loan originations was consistent in the quarter with the prior quarter and our new business has a better overall risk rating than our existing portfolio and while the environment remains competitive we are remaining disciplined with structure and staying true to our relationship strategy.
In terms of capital management we continued to execute on our capital plans by repurchasing $119 million in common shares in the quarter and we also closed our Pacific Crest acquisition in under 60 days from the time of announcement and remain on schedule with our integration plans.
As I look at our results Im encouraged by many of the trends in our core revenue and expense; however the quarter overall did not reflect the earnings potential of our company and fell short of our expectations.
Don will spend some time discussing the details of our third quarter results and more importantly our outlook for improved performance in the fourth quarter.
Additionally we remain on a path to achieve our full year guidance.
With that let me turn it over to Don.
Thanks Beth.
Im on slide five.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.23 per common share for the third quarter compared to $0.25 for the year ago quarter and $0.27 for the second quarter.
This quarter we incurred $35 million or $0.03 per share of costs associated with our efficiency initiatives and pension settlement.
The pension settlement charge was $20 million and was triggered by lump sum distributions which were related to the reduction of approximately 1000 FTE as a result of our efficiency initiatives.
Similar to last year we would anticipate having additional settlement charges in the fourth quarter which are expected to be in the range of $5 million to $10 million.
On the revenue side we also had some developments late in the quarter that impacted our results the most significant being several investment banking transactions that were delayed into the fourth quarter.
We also saw lower than expected principal investing gains as well as a $7 million reduction to revenue that was related to the visa litigation settlement.
Ill cover many of these items on the slide throughout my presentation so Ill now turn to slide six.
Average total loan growth continued in the third quarter with balances up $2.5 billion or 5% compared to the year ago quarter and up $185 million from the second quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans which was broad-based across Keys business lending segment.
Average commercial financial and agricultural loans were up $2.6 billion or 11% compared to the prior year and were relatively stable with the second quarter.
Third quarter loan balances were negatively impacted by seasonality such as floor plan lending clients taking advantage of attractive capital markets alternatives and the exit of non-strategic assets such as Key Equipment Finance International.
Importantly new business loan originations remain consistent with the prior year.
We also saw more loan growth in the latter part of the quarter and as Beth mentioned this momentum has continued into October and bodes well for the fourth quarter.
And based on that we expect annualized link quarter average loan growth in the fourth quarter to be in the mid-single digital range driven by commercial lending and that we will meet our full year guidance.
Importantly we are remaining disciplined with our relationship focused in the quality and structure of our new business.
Continuing on to slide seven.
On the liability side on the balance sheet average deposits were up $2.4 billion from one year ago and up $1.3 billion from the second quarter.
Deposit growth of 4% from the prior year and 2% from the prior quarter was largely driven by inflows from commercial clients as well as increases related to our commercial mortgage servicing business.
And as a result of our continued focus on improving deposit mix year-over-year interest-bearing liability costs declined from 56 basis points to 52 basis points.
Turning to slide eight.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was $581 million for the third quarter compared to $584 million in the third quarter of 2013 and $579 million in the second quarter of this year.
Our net interest margin was 2.96% which was down 2 basis points from the prior quarter.
The reported decline in net interest income and the net interest margin from the prior year was primarily attributed to lower asset yields and higher levels of excess liquidity which was partially offset by loan growth and a more favorable mix of lower cost deposits.
Compared to the second quarter this year net interest income was up $2 million primarily due to an asset growth higher loan fees and an improvement in funding costs and the benefit of the day count.
For the fourth quarter we expect net interest income to remain relatively stable with the third quarter level.
We also expect to maintain our modest asset sensitivity position.
As we have highlighted before we have the flexibility to manage and quickly adjust our rate risk position and the duration and characteristics of Keys loan and investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide nine shows a summary of non-interest income which accounts for approximately 42% of our total revenue.
Non-interest income in the third quarter was $417 million down from both the prior year and prior quarter primarily due to lower gains from principal investing and leverage lease terminations.
We did however see positive trends in several of our fee-based businesses.
Despite several large transactions being delayed into the fourth quarter investment banking and debt placement fees remain strong at $88 million.
We also saw growth in trust and investment services and deposit service charges.
For the fourth quarter we expect non-interest income to be up in the low double-digit percentage range from the third quarter as a result of a strong finish to the year for investment banking driven by a strong pipeline which includes deal activities that moved into the fourth quarter.
It also includes a full quarters worth of Pacific Crest activity and a normal seasonal lift in corporate-owned life insurance as well as a more typical run-rate for principal investing gains.
Turning to slide 10 non-interest expense for the third quarter was $704 million down $12 million from the year-ago period and up $15 million from the second quarter.
Quarter expenses were well controlled and below our previously communicated guidance.
As I mentioned earlier reported expense includes $15 million in efficiency charges and a $20 million pension settlement charge.
Combined these two items added 350 basis points to our efficiency ratio.
We also incurred expense of $6 million during the quarter related to Pacific Crest Securities.
Normalizing for Pacific Crest and the pension charge which were both not included in our prior guidance expense levels came in below our previously communicated $680 million to $690 million range as outlined in the lower right hand side of the slide.
Core expense levels continue to benefit from our continuous improvement efforts including the consolidation of 12 branches in the third quarter and the rightsizing of our businesses and support areas.
In the fourth quarter we would expect reported expense levels to remain relatively stable with the third quarter including a full quarter of Pacific Crest and a reduced pension settlement charge anticipated to be in the range or $5 million to $10 million.
We also anticipate fourth quarter expense levels to include efficiency charges of approximately $10 million.
Importantly our guidance is consistent with our previous outlook for 2014 expenses.
We remain committed to continuing to generate cost savings through our continuous improvement efforts which will enable us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
Moving to slide 11 our report efficiency ratio was 69.5% for the quarter and 66.7% on a year-to-date basis.
This was clearly higher than our expectations.
However it does include elevated efficiency and pension charges which year-to-date totals $69 million well above our original estimate of $30 million for the full year.
Excluding efficiency and pension charges our year-to-date efficiency ratio was 64.5%.
The higher charges reflect an acceleration of our initiatives as we continue to manage core expenses in an appropriate pace and make investments that will translate into future revenue growth.
The efficiency ratio remains an important measure and we expect to continue to make progress in the fourth quarter and 2015 from our current level.
We have a pass forward built around business growth and expense management.
Over the next two to three years we are committed to moving our cash efficiency ratio down to 60%.
Importantly longer term we are targeting a ratio in the high 50s.
Turning to slide 12 net charge-offs were $31 million or 22 basis points of average total loans in the third quarter which continues to be below our targeted range.
At September 30 2014 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.43% of period in loans and 201% coverage of our non-performing loans.
Importantly as Beth mentioned the quality of our new business volume has consistently been better than that of our existing portfolio.
We expect net charge-off to remain below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points in the fourth quarter.
In turning to slide 13 our tangible common equity ratio and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remain strong at September 30 at 10.29% and 11.26% respectively.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $119 million or 8.8 million common shares in the third quarter.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitment to remain disciplined in managing our strong position.
Our Tier 1 common ratio has remained above 11% while we have paid out a peer-leading amount of capital to shareholders.
Moving onto slide 14 this is our fourth quarter and our full year 2014 outlook.
As Beth mentioned we continue to expect to achieve the full year guidance that we provided at the beginning of this year.
For the fourth quarter we expect an improvement from our third quarter run rate consistent with my comments today.
Average loans should growth in the mid-single digit range annualized from the third quarter as we benefit from recent growth solid pipelines and normal seasonal trends especially in our commercial businesses.
Revenues should reflect a meaningful pickup in non-interest income next quarter in the low double-digit percentage range as a result of a strong finish to the year for investment banking including a full quarters impact of Pacific Crest Securities and a strong pipeline heading into the fourth quarter a normal seasonal lift in corporate owned life insurance and what we would assume to be a more normal run rate for principal investing gains.
Reported expenses should remain relatively stable with the third quarter including the addition of a full quarter of Pacific Crest as well as an additional pension and settlement cost this quarter albeit at a reduced level.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points.
And finally we expect to continue to execute on our share repurchase authorization consistent with our capital plans.
With that Ill close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is coming from the line of Steven Alexopoulos.
Please go ahead sir.
He is with J.P.
Morgan.
Good morning everyone.
Im assuming thats me.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can I ask you guys; on the efficiency ratio it seems that focus is shifted to this long term 60% target.
Are you still targeting 60% to 65% over the near term? It doesnt seem like we are hearing much about that anymore.
Steven this Don.
What I would say is that for the last several quarters weve talked about our plans to drive that efficiency ratio to the lower end of that previous guidance and with the benefit of rates we should be able to drive it to something below 60%.
So at the conference this past quarter we changed our guidance to a long-term perspective of driving at below 60%.
So we would expect to have a path to continue to drive it down from the current levels and be in that long-term guidance range over the next two to three years.
But Don should we read into that that you dont think youre going to be in that range near term.
Is that why you are moving this to a longer-term view? I would say the concern we had was that there were questions around would we be happy if we maintained it at the higher end of that range and so 60% to 65% range was the previous guidance.
And what we are focused on is driving positive operating leverage and the outcome of that should be to continue to drive that efficiency ratio lower and that is our expectation for next quarter going into 2015 and for the next two to three year time period.
Okay and simultaneous with including an outlook for higher rates.
The 10 year has now hit 2%.
Can you help us think about how much incremental pressure that you put on loan yields securities yields and I dont know where you are with HQLA but do you need to build securities here at this level.
Thanks.
The long end of the curve doesnt have as much of an impact on us as the shorter end of the curve.
If you look at our asset portfolio loans typically have an average life of three years.
Most of our loans are LIBOR based and so we are going to see more lift when we see the shorter end of the curve moving up.
When we look at the investment securities that we are purchasing over the last couple of quarters weve seen yields for purchases in the 2 to 2.25 level and so with the longer end of the curve coming down its pushed that down a little bit but it shouldnt have a meaningful impact in the overall margin from what our current guidance would suggest.
And then as far as our HQLA and the LCR implications that we estimate as of September 30 that our LCR ratio would be around 80%.
Our target for the first quarter of 2016 would be 90% and we think we can get there with cushion with making some modest changes to continue to change in our mix of investment portfolio over to more Ginnie Maes maybe some slight increases in the overall investment portfolio and then also some product changes which we dont think will be significant in any way.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Thank you.
Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill is next.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
So I guess first question is just on loan growth.
There has been a little noise in the last couple of quarters.
I think last quarter it was the flattish end of period numbers and in this quarter a little more sluggish average.
Obviously it hasnt caused you to alter the full year guidance but I was just curious if you could maybe put some or make some comments around any changes in demand you are seeing or any kind of changes in your risk appetite that might have caused things these last couple of quarters to come in a bit lighted than you had anticipated if first of all thats an appropriate conclusion.
Sure Scott this is Chris Gorman.
Good morning.
As you think about our model our model is we only put about 15% of all the capital we raise on to our balance sheet.
So on a trailing 12 basis for example we raised about 55 billion in over 1 000 transactions and again only about 15% finds its way to our balance sheet.
And what that means is we can have some pretty big variations as you look quarter to quarter.
If you look over the last five quarters or so it probably ranges from $350 million to $900 million.
Now as you think about the third quarter a couple of interesting things.
One new business volume was basically spot on from what it was in the prior quarter when we grew by $900 million.
The reason that occurs is we sometimes bridge significant transactions.
In the case of last quarter we bridged something in the second quarter and took it out in the third quarter.
That total was about $250 million.
There was one particular transaction that was about $170 million just to give some texture.
The other thing that we are always doing is reallocating our capital and all of our other resources for that matter and in the third quarter as we always do we really exited about 200 million of loans.
The last thing I would tell you is we continue to maintain our discipline.
So as you know Scott we are leading most of these deals.
We could easily take a bigger piece; we could be a buyer of some of this paper.
Weve elected not to do that.
So you are going to see variations as you go quarter-to-quarter.
I think both Beth and Don alluded to the fact that as you look forward we are comfortable with the guidance that weve provided all year and the reason for that is (a) our pipeline; and (b) if you look at the fact that in the corporate bank we grew say $350 million during the quarter or 1.6%.
As we look at the ending balance it was up about $650 million.
So I hope that gives you a little bit of texture for kind of whats going on intra-quarter here in the Corporate Bank.
Yes that does.
So I appreciate that Chris.
And then while Ive got you maybe a separate question.
Don had alluded to a couple of the deals that you got in the investment-banking pipeline getting pushed to the fourth quarter.
Are you able to provide a little context around that? In other words are these just kind of individually unique circumstances that happen to tally to a few deals so we get pushed through or are there any concerns given the market volatility and weakness that those deals would just not get completed.
How are you thinking about that dynamic? Well Scott let me start with they are always market dependent and we are always worried about market volatility as you think about our transactions.
What Don alluded to is there were a couple of significant transactions neither of which had gone away both of which were pushed from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
But as you look at our total pipeline and we always probably adjust our pipeline we feel pretty good about the fourth quarter.
In fact based on our interactions with our clients the discussions we are having with our clients and our risk-adjusted pipeline we believe the fourth quarter will be the strongest quarter of the year for us in investment banking and debt placement fees.
Okay good thats helpful and I appreciate it.
Thats it for me so thank you.
Thank you Scott.
Thanks Scott.
Erika Najarian with Bank of America is next.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My first question is just a clarity question.
In terms of your guidance for expenses for fourth quarter should we take the $704 million reported as the base or the $678 million core as the base? Our guidance was compared to the $704 million reported because keep in mind that in the $704 million this quarter included the pension settlement of $20 million and roughly $6 million of Pacific Crest.
Next quarter well have a full quarters worth of Pacific Crest and so that will roughly be $20 million or so of expenses and then we expect our pension charge to be lower.
So again pension we said would be in the $5 million to $10 million and so with the combination of those items the total will be expected to be relatively stable with that $704 million reported level.
Got it and just sneaking one last one in given Don your comments on the LCR being at 80% now and just remixing your securities portfolio to exceed your fully phase-in requirement by 1Q 15 and clearly youre more sensitive to the short end of the curve.
Is it fair to say that this quarters margin represents close to the bottom near term even though the 10-year is at 2%.
If we look at our margin today of 2.96% we believe that even with rates being flat with where they are at today that the margin will hold in relatively stable for next several years and so we do believe that we are at kind of a plateau there and I think you saw that with stability in our net interest income on a relative basis compared to the previous quarter and even the previous year now and so I think thats starting to reposition that dynamic a little bit for us.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley is next.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Don a quick question for you.
In terms of the unusual charges or the efficiency charges as you call them how much longer do we take these because theyve been around for a long time.
It seems that you would expect them to be around for a while more.
Whats the outlook on that? For this quarter we had an additional consolidation of 12 branches and some other expense moves in connection with rightsizing some of the business and staff areas.
And to your point we will always have some smaller level of efficiency related changes going forward.
I would say that this year the level of them have been much higher than what we would have expected.
We talked earlier in our script about $69 million worth of efficacy and pension related charges this year on a year-to-date basis versus our full year estimate of $30 million.
And so I would say that $30 million level is probably more of a full year type of projection and more of a normal environment.
What we did see this year was probably a little bit more pressure on revenues and felt that it was important for us to take additional efforts further enhance our expense reduction efforts.
Got it.
Okay so $30 million for 15 at least a ballpark estimate okay.
And we havent given guidance yet for 15 but I think that will be more of a normal level thats correct.
Okay and just second question in terms of how you are thinking about lending or which categories you are targeting where the 10-year is currently at 2% does that drive any of your lending decisions or more specifically is there any loans like CRE for example where you may pull back because of where rates are if things dont change.
So Ken its Chris Gorman.
With rates like this at the 10-year what youll see is a significant pick up in some of things we do when we act agent not principle.
And as a result whether its Fannie Freddie FHA those longer term fixed deals youll see a lot of our clients opting for those.
Obviously the CMBS market has enjoyed a nice recovery this year.
We think total issuance in the CMBS market will be between $90 billion and $95 billion this year.
So thats really  you really see it impacted more our clients going long and going fixed and that really lends itself to our business model where we are functioning as agent not principal.
All right.
Thank you.
Ken Usdin with Jefferies is next.
Please go ahead.
Hey this is actually Josh in for Ken.
Thanks for taking our question.
Can you speak to the low tax rate you guys realized this quarter and then how we should think about this going forward? Yes.
Our tax rate reflects the benefit of a couple of credits.
Those would be typical for us to have credits throughout the period.
I think that our tax rate prospectively should be in the 25% to 28% range.
Okay and then I noticed that the CRE yields held flat linked quarter after almost 10 quarters of compression and this is on top some pretty strong loan growth in that bucket.
Can you provide some color on what youre seeing here in terms of competition? Sure.
This is Chris Gorman speaking.
Ill take a pass at that and then EJ Burk may have some things to add to it as well.
What were seeing is we are very very targeted and so as you think about our multi family business these are people that we do a lot of business with and so its really kind of a relationship approach as opposed to sort of one piece of paper thats sort of a one-off piece of paper.
So I would say its a relationship at something for our targeted owners of real estate.
We are doing a lot with them.
Those are the people that in fact were providing some construction loans too.
So I would say thats why its holding up.
Yes and the only other thing I would add is that our mix in real estate has changed a bit.
Early in the cycle we did a lot of refinancing and with the market much stronger and property fundamentals a lot better we shifted a little more to private owners of real estate more stabilized property and there you are going to see you will have a little better pricing power.
Okay thanks for the color.
Great thank you.
Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital Markets is next.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
First question talking about Pacific Crest I know you identified the costs that were there this quarter and your expectation for the fourth.
Could you talk about the revenues? I know they werent around for very long this quarter but the revenues if any that were there this quarter and sort of what the expectation there is in the fourth quarter? Sure Bob Chris Gorman.
Let me start by I just want to welcome the whole Pacific Crest team onto the platform.
We have been very very pleased with how the integration has gotten since we announced this transaction just at the end of the second quarter.
In terms of revenue they were only around for part of September.
The revenue and expenses were about $6 million on each side of the equation.
As we go forward what weve said publicly is they had a run rate last year of between $80 million and $85 million.
Their pipelines are stronger today than they were when we started talking to them way back in August of last year August a year ago that is.
So we feel good about the trajectory of the business.
We feel good about what it brings to the platform.
Okay great.
And then remind me the revenues coming through is a combination of the investment banking line and the trust investment services line.
Is that correct? Thats correct and its about half and half as you think about their business; half investment banking half equity sales trading and research.
Great.
And then I was also curious; I know you talked about loan growth.
You guys said earlier that you could easily on the commercial deals take a bigger piece in a lot of these transactions.
Given that the asset quality the loans you guys are marking today seems to be even better than the historical book.
Is there a reason that your not taking little bit bigger pieces of these when youve got so much capital on your balance sheet and why not grow a little faster? Well we clearly want to grow make no mistake.
I mean as we look at every single quarter we want to grow loans deposits fees clients bankers we want to grow across the board.
We think the way to do it and the most sustainable way though is to really go at growing clients and while its tempting to buy a piece of paper or its tempting to take a big hold position what we want to do is maintain our moderate risk profile.
We think over the cycle that will serve us well.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Bill Carcache with Nomura is next.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I had a follow-up question on your earlier comments regarding your efficiency initiatives.
The additional expenses make complete sense as the industry evolves and adapts to the technological changes that were seeing but there are others who are absorbing those expenses into their normal ongoing operations without having to call out specific efficiency initiatives.
And so I guess my question broadly is what do you think it will take for Key to reach the point where it can absorb these costs without having to call them out every quarter and maybe some of your earlier comments you just said that will  maybe its next year when well reach a point and I guess maybe Ill stop there and love to hear any thoughts around that.
Right.
And were not calling those out to say that they are non-recurring because we do expect to see a recurring level of restructuring charges.
Why we call them out each quarter is that there is some fluctuation of their ability in that expense line from time-to-time and so this quarter and last quarter we had higher than normal levels of branch consolidations which increased the level of restructuring charge.
And so we think its just important for us to highlight what the core level of expenses are and also recognize that there is going to be some variability in that restructuring line item.
Okay thank you.
My other question is around the deposit mix.
We know that over three quarters of your deposits reside inside of the Community Bank but how much of that is small business and I guess more specifically can you share how you think about the retail versus commercial mix of your deposit base? Sure.
As far as small business its in the $4 billion range as far as total deposits for smaller business.
We are very focused on our retail core deposit base and that would include small business as a part of that and we recognize the value of those deposits is clearly going to increase with the new rules as far as the LCR requirements and so we are very focused on that.
Dennis would you like to add anything as far as retail deposit base? Sure.
This is Dennis Devine Co-President of the community bank leading consumer and small business; thats absolutely right.
And as you think about consumer and small business and business banking for deposits I would certainly think about that continuum across how we think about our business banking segment and down into small business; very important segments for us.
In our deposit base you see quarter-to-quarter growth.
You do continue to see the improved mix of those deposits as well.
So as this trench of CDs higher rate CDs continues to run you see us growing core deposits.
You see us aggressively in the context of the community bank and in the retail bank looking to grow the client base to grow our relationship strategy introducing the products which have had some real success over the course of the past quarter and growing the number of clients that we are bringing to Key.
And so thats a central part of how we think about success in the community bank as the growth of core relationship clients the deposits that come with them and certainly as the rate environment rentals see more and more value there.
Thank you thats very helpful.
Terry McEvoy with Sterne Agee is next.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I just have a question on the payments business.
Youve been spending there for the last few years on just generically speaking payments.
So if I look at the revenue line its kind of flat quarter-over-quarter and up a bit year-over-year.
Was that spending just to stay competitive or would you expect that line the revenue line to grow over time.
Yes Terry this is Don and I would say that we clearly expect that revenue line to grow over time and we are making investments in new products and capabilities.
We are starting to sell those and so we are starting to see some benefit from those but it clearly hasnt hit stride yet the full stride yet and so we would expect this to be an area where we would see better than average growth for our fee income for that category.
Chris anything else you want to add there? No Terry its right.
Its something weve invested a lot of time.
Weve actually moved a lot of talented people into our commercial payments area.
Its an area that we are very much focused on; we are getting traction on the purchase card.
The prepaid program that we are involved with we just had a couple of major wins and based on the competitive landscape we are actually pretty optimistic about being able to be impactful in the prepaid space particularly because from a public sector perspective we are very focused on certain public entities that we think could benefit from it.
And then just a follow-up question.
Beth I was reading the American Banker article last week about you and it mentioned the key basic credit line which was compared somewhat with the deposit advance product but it just didnt fit that description.
As others were getting out of that product and similar products is this scenario of growth and maybe quantify how large this specific product is for Key.
Yes Terry Im going to ask Dennis Devine to augment my answer but it was an opportunity for us to really differentiate how we are thinking about responsible banking and serving client bases that historically have been underserved and with products that are under scrutiny and concern and we feel like weve done a number of things in that space to really make sure that weve made affordable alternatives available and Im going to let Dennis tell you a little bit more about that because I do think its a point of distinction as well as a point of pride for a company.
Thanks Beth and to reinforce Beths point specifically it is not a deposit advance product.
Its a small line of credit that we make available specifically to clients who traditionally have been unable to attain traditional or prime credit to the banking relationship.
The criteria that we look at are deep and its based on the clients relationship that they have with us.
Again these are small lines and we look to build our credit history.
Its very much designed to help introduce our clients to their ability to obtain and then manage credit.
I think very small lines in the thousands of dollars has been a traditional max in the low end of the thousands of dollars and weve just extended that number up a little bit higher to try to create greater opportunity for our clients but its designed to serve a population that wouldnt otherwise be served in a responsible credit facing way so that we can serve underserved populations and continue to build out the communities that we have.
But again very much directly aligned with our relationship strategy.
These are core clients of Key that have brought our relationships with us that we are looking to extend and help.
I appreciate that.
Thanks.
Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets is next.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is actually John Hearn on for Gerard.
Just a quick question for you on the interest rate sensitivity table in your Q.
I believe its a 200 basis point increase in rates result in a 3% increase in net interest income.
Does that exist exclusively on the short and intermediate terms or is it parallel shift of the yield curve.
The underlying assumption is that the entire yield curve moves up by 200 basis points over a 12 month period and keep in mind though that really our asset sensitivity is more generated or source from that shorter end of the curve and so thats where we would benefit the most and so that 10-year into the curve really doesnt have as much of an impact.
Okay.
And have you examined where we see a flattening of the yield curve where it happens more in the front end and not in the back end.
Can you say what the result would be for net interest income then? We have looked at twists and one of those would be where you see a flattening where the short end of the yield curve moves up and that would be beneficial to us.
We havent quoted what kind of an impact that would be but it would be helpful just from having that LIBOR and the shorter end of the curve move up.
Great.
All right perfect thank you.
And then just as a quick follow-up with your mobile banking adoption could you speak to just the percentage of customers that are in the mobile channel currently and what are you expecting as we look forward maybe to 2015.
This is Dennis Devine.
Weve seen north of a 30% year-over-year increase in the activity of our mobile clients.
Youve seen us introduce very competitive and strong solutions across not just the core mobile platforms that you would traditionally expect but across an expanded set as the devices that our clients are using as we extend into windows and Droid and Amazon capabilities.
And so as building on Beth and Dons comments from earlier as Key looks at its ability both to serve its clients and to reposition our business to serve those clients in a cost efficient and effective way our digital investments really build upon mobile and so from a mobile first perspective is the way we think about serving many many of our clients and on important part of our strategy is making sure that weve built up the talent to be able to do just that.
So weve seen substantial growth.
There is no doubt its the most explosive source of client activity in our business over the course of the past year.
We expect that to continue.
Great.
Thanks for taking our questions.
Thank you.
Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research is next.
Please go ahead.
Hello there.
I wondered if you could discuss how the widening in high yield spreads impacts the business; either in terms of impacts on the investment banking and capital market side or on the lending side by potentially pushing customers back from capital markets and other alternatives towards borrowing from Keys balance sheet.
Thank you.
Sure.
This is Chris Gorman speaking.
I mean the biggest driver in the high yield market is if there are net inflows or outflows and after seeing a series of launch where there were outflows there have been inflows into the high yield market and in fact weve been able to price a deal one deal already this week.
So if that market is healthier that is the high yield market that is very very beneficial for transaction related revenue and we have a pretty significant M&amp;A business.
That business is up year-over-year 70% and part of the reason that its up is the availability of financing vehicle such as the high yield market.
The interesting thing that weve talked about before; right now our model is frankly best served when the markets have some level of disequilibrium because we are able to move from product to product.
So to the extent they are seized to be a high yield market that would probably benefit our platform overall because we have all the various tools that we can go to to fill in that gap in the capital structure.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is coming from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I had a question about your share buybacks this quarter.
When I look at your buybacks I think you spent $119 million and based on your remaining authorization it looks like you could do  you have $315 million left about $158 million per quarter.
Your run rate has been a little bit below that and I was curious as to whether we should expect you to use up all of that authorization looking out the next two quarters or might you not spend all of that on buybacks.
How should we think about that? As we look at our share buybacks they are consistent with our capital plan that we submitted to the federal reserve earlier this year and so some of the timing of the share buybacks are based on shares that are issued in connection with employee compensation plans and other things and so some of those maybe weighted toward the quarters that those are granted which is typically in the first quarter of each year.
And so absent that I would say that generally the share buybacks are fairly consistent throughout the year and our progress to-date is very consistent with the plan that we submitted.
Okay but Im sorry.
We should expect the pace of buybacks to pick up over each of the next two quarters? We would expect to see greater share buyback in the next two quarters compared to what weve exercised in the first two quarters of this capital plan thats correct yes.
Okay thank you.
And then another question was just your Lean Six Sigma initiative.
Obviously youre very focused on improving your efficiency ratio.
Of course part of that is part of function of revenues but in terms of just your Six Sigma implementation and it sounded like this was really the first time youve ever measured end to end process ever at a company and I want to find out if you have any early reads any early wins in those related to Lean Six Sigma or if its just too early in the process here to really talk about it in depth.
Because it sounds like for a company that really hasnt ever measured its processes end to end it could be a lot of low handing fruit that you could take over the next few quarters.
Can you talk about that a little bit? Yes Ill go ahead.
This is Beth and give some context on that and then Ill ask Don to give perhaps more granularity.
We do look at Lean Six Sigma as an opportunity for our company and you are correct.
What you would call the true Lean Six Sigma approach the end-to-end process where you both drive for a revenue opportunity client outcomes as well as looking forward to ways to be more productive and efficient as an opportunity for our company.
We have launched approximately 10 different Lean Six Sigma programs.
Of course our projects right now are varying in degrees of size and significance but it is something that we are more broadly putting into the company everything from our sales process to how we look at our credit originations.
So we are excited at early outcomes root causes where we are in the process and the opportunities that will yield both for revenue expenses as well as a better client experience and Ill let Don give a little bit more dimension to that.
Sure.
A couple of examples of where we found success with this and it would include in our branch sales process that Dennis have talked before and weve mentioned recently here that if you look at our sales per person per day in the branches they are up over 30% year-over-year and that whole process was subjected to a Lean Six Sigma effort and review and I think it was helpful in achieving that.
I wouldnt say it was that by itself but that clearly helped set the table for us.
Another area that we are close to wrapping up as well is the whole commercial lending side and within the middle market space and so weve seen some real good progress there as far as making that process much more efficient and effective and are counting on lots of benefits from that going forward as well.
And so as Beth said this is in the early stages.
We do believe this could be a core part of our culture going forward and we are getting a lot of excitement and interest from all of our employees that have participated in these efforts already.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back to our host Beth Mooney; please continue.
Thank you operator.
Again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate on our call today.
If you have any follow up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team at 216-689-4221 and that concludes our remarks.
Thank you again.
That concludes the call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorps Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorps fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me for todays presentation is Don Kimball our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; EJ Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide two is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Im now turning to slide three.
Ill provide some overview comments on the fourth quarter of the year and then Ill turn it over to Don to discuss our financial results and our outlook for 2015.
Fourth quarter was a strong finish to the year.
As the conclusion of our third quarter we indicated that our fourth quarter performance would better reflect the earnings power of our company.
And Im pleased to report that in the fourth quarter our results improved significantly and we met or exceeded the guidance we provided.
And as we communicated our results over the last two quarters were reflective of the variability in our business model especially in some of our fee income categories like investment banking and debt placement where we saw some activity move from the third quarter into the fourth quarter and as a result we finished the year with record performance.
We also generated positive operating leverage relative to both the third quarter and the year ago period.
Earnings per share were up 8% from last year as we continue to grow organically by acquiring and expanding targeted relationships which provide the solid growth in both loans and deposits.
Core expenses were well controlled as were realizing the benefits of our initiatives and our continuous improvement efforts.
Our cash efficiency ratio was down 300 basis points from the year ago quarter and it is a continued priority for us to identify additional efficiency and productivity opportunities as we go into 2015.
Asset quality also improved over the years as we continue to originate good quality relationship business while staying disciplined with structure and consistent with our capital management priorities we repurchased $128 million of common stock from the fourth quarter.
Slide four is a summary of our full year 2014 results.
We delivered on our commitments to our shareholders by generating positive operating leverage and by remaining disciplined with both risk and our strong capital position.
Average loans were up 5% from the prior year driven by strong growth in commercial financial and agricultural loans of 11% which also help to create a record year in investment banking and debt placement fee.
Expenses were well controlled down 2% from the prior year or 3% excluding the 2014 acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities and asset quality improved with net charge-offs of 20 basis points for the year which is well below our targeted range.
During the year we continue to invest in our businesses to accelerate growth.
In addition to Pacific Crest we added bankers across our franchise expanded our payment capabilities and enhanced technology in areas such as mobile online and cyber security.
We also exited non-strategic asset that were not consistent with our relationship strategy such as international leasing and we made a number of leadership changes to drive focus in execution including in our community bank.
In 2014 we were able to reward shareholders by returning a peer-leading 82% of our net income through both dividends and share repurchases.
Overall it was the strong finish to what was a good year for our company.
Were well positioned with momentum and confident in our business model and our team and Im excited about the opportunities we have ahead.
Now Ill turn the call over to Don to discuss the details of our fourth quarter results and our outlook for 2015.
With that let me turn it over to Don.
Thanks Beth.
Im on slide six.
This morning we reported net income in continuing operations of $0.28 per common share for the fourth quarter this compared to $0.26 for the year ago quarter and $0.23 for the third quarter.
Ill cover many of these items of this slide throughout my presentation so lets now turn to slide seven.
Average total loan growth continued in the fourth quarter with balances up $3 billion or 5% compared to year ago quarter and up $745 million from the third quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again primarily driven by commercial financial and agricultural loans and it was broad based across Keys business lending segments.
Average commercial financial and agricultural loans were up $3 billion or 12% compared to the prior year and were up $732 million or 3% annualized in the third quarter.
Importantly were remaining disciplined with our relationship focus as well as the quality and structure of our new business.
Continuing on the slide 8 on the liability side of balance sheet average deposits were up $1.3 billion one year ago and up $1.4 billion from third quarter.
Deposit growth of 2% from both the prior year and prior quarter was largely driven by inflows from commercial clients as well as increases related to our commercial mortgage servicing business.
And the cost of total deposits decreased to 15 basis points from 20 basis points one year ago reflecting our more favorable deposit mix.
Turning to slide 9 taxable equivalent net interest income was $588 million for the fourth quarter compared to $589 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and $581 million in the third quarter of this year.
Our net interest margin was 2.94% which was down two basis points from prior quarter.
The margin was impacted by higher levels of excess liquidity driven by commercial deposit growth and lower earning asset yields.
Compared to the third quarter of this year net interest income was up $7 million primarily due to asset growth higher loan fees and lower funding cost.
We expect to maintain our modest asset sensitivity and the duration and characteristics of key loan and investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise and the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide 10 shows the summary of non-interest income which accounts for 45% of our total revenue.
Non-interest income in the fourth quarter was $490 million up 8% from the prior year and up 18% from the prior quarter primarily due to strength in core business activity.
We also benefited from recent investments like the acquisition of Pacific Crest in the addition of client facing FTE.
As Beth mentioned this was both a record quarter and a record year for investment banking and debt placement fees which finishes the year with $126 million in the fourth quarter.
As we indicated on our third quarter call there is variability in this business from quarter-to-quarter but we had a strong pipeline in September and that carried through to the fourth quarter.
We also saw growth in many other fee based businesses including trust investment services and corporate services which had strength and derivatives in non-loan fees.
Consistent with our comments last quarter we also saw a normal seasonal lift and corporate owned life insurance and a stronger quarter from principle investing gain.
Turning to slide 11 our non-interest expense for the fourth quarter was $704 million down $8 million from a year ago period and stable with the third quarter.
Reported expense included $8 million in efficiency charges and $3 million pension settlement charge combined these two items added approximately 100 basis points to our efficiency ratio.
If you adjust for Pacific Crest efficiency charges and pension settlement our core expenses decreased to $676 million from $688 million in the year ago period.
This quarter our cash efficiency ratio was 64% while this level reflects our hard work and improvement over the last few years efficiency ratio remains an important measure for us and we expect to continue to make progress in 2015 from our level in 2014.
We remain committed to continuing to generate cost savings through our continuous improvement efforts which will enable us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
Turning to slide 12 net charge-offs of $32 million or 22 basis points on average total loans in the fourth quarter which continues to be below our targeted range.
At December 31 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.38% of period in loans and 190% coverage of our non-performing loans.
Importantly the quality of our new business volume has consistently been better than that of our existing portfolio.
Turning to slide 13 our tangible common equity ratio and estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio both remain strong at December 31 at 9.88% and 11.18% respectively.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $496 million in common shares in 2014 including 128 million or 9.7 million common shares in the fourth quarter.
We have approximately 187 million of growth repurchase authorization remaining under our 2014 capital plan which runs through March of this year.
We submitted our 2015 capital plan with Federal Reserve earlier this month and plan on announcing our results in March following the Federal Reserves release of their analysis and finding.
Importantly our capital plan reflects our commitment to remaining disciplined in managing our strong capital position.
Our Tier 1 common ratio has remained above 11% while weve paid out a peer-leading amount of capital to shareholders.
Moving on to slide 14 as Beth mentioned on our third quarter call we indicated the fourth quarter will be more reflective of our earnings power of the company and that we would meet our full year guidance.
With our fourth quarter results we delivered on our commitment and achieved our previously communicated guidance.
In 2015 we expect to drive positive operating leverage and continue to improve our performance.
Average loans should grow the mid-single digit range as we benefit from the strength in our commercial businesses.
We anticipate net-interest income growth in the low to mid-single digital percentage range compared to 2014 this does include the benefit from higher rates as we are currently modeling short term rates to increase 50 basis points late in the year.
Without the benefit of the higher rates we would anticipate net-interest income to be up in the low single digit range.
Our net-interest margin should remain relatively stable and based on interest rates may increase later in the year.
Non interest income is expected to be up in the mid-single digit percentage range for the year which would include the full year impact of Pacific Crest Securities.
Keep in mind revenue activity tends to be seasoning lower in the first quarter compare to the fourth quarter and area such as investment banking and debt placement as well as seasoning lower and up corporate-owned life insurance.
We also anticipate returning to a more normal run rate for principal investing gains.
Full year reported expenses should be relatively stable in 2014 which includes a full year of expenses related Pacific Crest offset by lower efficiency and pension charges.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points.
We also expect provision to approximately next net charge-off.
And finally we expect to continue to execute our share repurchase authorization consistent with our capital plans.
With that Ill close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And with that well go to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good to see the expenses come in where you thought despite better fees.
As we think about next year we're seeing some other banks talk about upward pressure on expenses and you're holding the line on the expenses while you're still expecting some revenue growth.
So I guess the question is the continuous improvement that you're doing just elaborate a bit more on where some of the gross savings are coming from? And then where some of the investment or offsets are? Great Matt and this is Don Kimball and as far as were receiving savings and in 2014 for example we consolidated 34 branches throughout our franchise a little bit more than 3% of the total branches which resulted in savings of just less than $9 million a year.
Other things we did last year included reducing the headcount levels in our fixed income trading platform that was reduced by over 20%.
We exited our international leasing operation.
We finished a telecommunications network transformation which we had resolved of $20 million and run rate savings for the year.
And more importantly what were doing from a cultural perspective is focused on continuous improvement and thats for using tools like Lean Six Sigma which were kicked off in 2014 and we expect to see ongoing benefits for that in 15 And so going forward Id think we some of the things continue that we would expect to see branch consolidation from that 2% to 3% level and weve also talked about other occupancy cost that were reducing 15% of our non-branch ware footage so a lot of corporate office space we have been reduced throughout the year.
And again just focusing on that end-to-end profit management making sure the people are helping to drive ongoing improvements in our productivity and efficiency.
As far ass some of the investments this last year weve added over 25 new senior bankers within the corporate bank and I think youre seeing the benefit from that in our year-over-year growth and our investment banking and debt placement fees and so were making investments there.
Were making other investments in products and services like payments.
And like many other weve been making investments in our risk management compliance and other modeling capabilities over the last two years staffing for compliance and modeling is up over 50% and we expect to see that increase again going forward and so were bearing those kind of cost that we expect to be able to achieve the kind of synergies and efficiencies from that focus on continuous improvement to help fund those cost going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for all that color.
And then just separately on page 18 of your appendix you've got a slide on oil and gas exposure which is relatively modest to the size of the Company.
But just any early signs of pressure there? Or maybe in areas that benefit from energy? And how are you monitoring that differently now say versus three months ago? Yes Matt this is Beth.
Given the attention on this topic we did add slide 18 in the appendix and hope that will be helpful color and context for folks as they look at the quarter as well as our portfolio.
And I would say the headlines are that it is a longstanding area where we have history and expertise and as you said it is a small portfolio for us its only 2% of our outstanding.
We are mainly in the EMP or upstream end of the market.
We would say we have a quality client book.
Theyre well reserved and well protected with minimal oil field services exposure.
So its a small portfolio it is not a big concern to us and we will continue to monitor it.
And I think the slide in the appendix has helped giving good understanding of what we see and we also mentioned in that slide that we have reflected it in our reserves and allow at the end of the fourth quarter given current prices and where well benefit is I think were saying that if certainly will be a boom to consumers their capacity to spend were confident and on average while there will be some [stutter] steps in the economy I think this will be a net positive to have lower oil prices for our economy in 2015.
Our next question is from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Don maybe to start and follow up in on your expense comments when I look at the 2015 guidance which is relatively stable versus what you guys promised and then ultimately delivered in 2014 which was a slight reduction in expenses what's really the difference in 2015? Because it seems that you still have ample room to cut expenses but you're not guiding that.
You're going to follow through with that this year.
So what's changed in 2014 versus 2015? The biggest impact there Steven is the full year impact of Pacific Crest so we do have increases there but weve also talked about making investments to grow revenues and weve done that within the corporate bank this past year and were looking for other areas to make those similar investments and were focused on as driving positive operating leverage in addition to flat expenses where were showing our guidance to reflect and expect the increase in both net interest income and fee income and we think thats a direct benefit from the investments were making.
Don what would be helpful to us as we assess the progress you're making on the efficiency front could you break out for us what was the expense and revenue contribution from Pacific Crest in the most recent quarter? And what do you expect that incremental build on both of those to be in 2015? What I would say on the slide on expenses we do breakout the Pacific Crest impact which is about $17 million for the quarter it was about a breakeven for us and so going forward we see more and more of the Pacific Crest operation being integrated with our overall capital markets and so its going to be tougher to really single that out especially as we look at integrating some of the back office and operations activities.
Okay.
I know your timing to the same amount of loan growth for 2015 as you did last year do you see double digit C&amp;I growth sustainable in 2015? What were seeing is our commercial growth should still be strength for us but were seeing some growth in our retail bank for consumer lending but thats being offset by the exit portfolio wind down.
So we could see other components of the commercial category also providing some growth for us but I think in aggregate it all translates to mid-single-digit kind of growth expectation which is consistent with 14.
Okay.
And just a final question the exposure you outlined in energy relatively small we shouldnt expect any impact from that on your capital last for this year is that correct? Thats correct.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Don I noticed that the period end balance sheet was significantly larger than the average for the fourth quarter.
And it looks like there was a really nice surge in non-interest bearing deposits.
So just wondering if you can flush out the sources of that deposit growth if we're onto a meaningfully different trajectory for average earning assets? And what are some of the moving parts there? Chris take care of the loan question and then Ill go ahead and fill in some background deposits so Chris? Sure Id be happy to.
Good morning Ken.
Just to remind everybody our business model is one where a relatively small amount in case of 2014 about 19% of the $54.4 billion that we raised actually ended up and state on our balance sheet.
So within any period and within any category there is just a lot of variability.
So first of all thats one thing always keep in mind with respect to our business as we think about our ability to grow the loan side of it weve been pretty successful in taking share.
We have 599 new clients in 2014 and we actually think that as we think about it Ken our model resonates with our targeted clients in prospect.
So while it seems aggressive we think we can continue to grow our loan portfolio but we really do so not necessarily going after loans but really seeking clients that we think would fit into our business model.
And then as far as the deposit to period end we had some fairly large increases from some of our governmental customers we had at the end of the year which were short term in nature.
So we do not expect that to be an indication of the start point for us for deposit growth that we would expect going forward there are long growth will exceed our deposit growth so that will help to drive greater efficiency on overall balance sheet.
Okay.
And then my follow up then Don also just on securities buildup and long-term debt funding where you had done a lot of that pre-funding for LCR and we've seen that in the securities book.
Can you talk about where you are there? And how much issuance you might continue to do versus securities build? Good question and throughout the month of December were in the mid-80s as far as our LCR ratio keep in mind that we have to be at 90% level by the first quarter of 16 and we think that we continue to get there through some minor adjustments going for that weve shifted our investment portfolio to about 42% being comprised -- securities which is very helpful and you see some cash flow going in that category which will allow us to over the next year continue to push that ratio up nothing considered as part change going forward.
Okay.
Just one little follow-up on that point.
And do you expect that you'll run with a buffer to the trajectory? Or just once -- or just track to the 90 100 of -- over time.
Yes we do believe that well have some buffer because you dont want to have any exposure for being under that number but I think buffer will be modest.
And next one is from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had a follow-up question on deposits.
Don you mentioned that there was an impact from some governmental clients in the quarter.
I believe that you guys had previously said that you were de-emphasizing municipal deposits because you viewed them as punitive from an LCR perspective.
Can you update us on how you're thinking about those deposits currently in light of the most recent LCR revisions? And then how all that fits in with the growth that you saw from those governmental clients this quarter? As far as our focus on the collateralized government deposits we have seen those balances come down in the fourth quarter and especially in some of the time deposit categories.
We will continue to support our strong customers and those that have those relationships that have an expanded type of product relationship with us.
But we will expect those collateralized municipal deposits to come down.
The growth that we saw really was at the end of the calendar year for a few days prior to the end of the calendar year and stayed with us for early part of January.
And it was very temporary in nature as far as that buildup at the December 31st balance.
Okay.
So you're looking across the relationship and it sounds like -- so I guess along those lines separately can you elaborate on how you guys.
How that Flynn influences your lending decisions and describe how that process has evolved over the last couple of years as we've kind of -- as competition has intensified.
Sure Bill.
This is Chris Gorman.
First I'll talk about our public sector public finance.
Let me start more broadly.
We have a requirement that we get to a 20% rate of return with our clients.
Obviously where a lot of debts is priced right now it's required that we have a wholesome relationship in order to hit our return hurdles.
Every single six months we sit down and we go account by cut on what the game plan is what the returns are what we have targeted what we have achieved and so it's a very very disciplined approach.
Once the clients are actually on our platform.
But I think even more importantly is the process that we use in terms of targeting our clients figuring out who we can be relevant to.
In our instance we're looking for people in certain sectors that are middle market companies that we think need and value what we can provide which we think is differentiated.
So as it relates for example to public sector public finance we are only focused on certain entities certain agencies where we have a relationship that as Don mentioned is broader than just a deposit.
Just as on the corporate side we're focused on companies where the relationship is much broader than just a loan.
What I'd like to do now is ask EJ to comment from a Community Bank perspective because they take a similar discipline.
That's right Chris.
We approach our client targeting in a very consistent fashion with the Corporate Bank.
I would say that in the Community Bank we tend to compete against smaller banks and in that type of arena our broad product capability especially in payments has helped us to price competitively because we can look over -- we look at a three year time horizon to say what kind of revenue are we going to earn over that period of time and how many products can we add.
And where the answer is positive we can be very competitive.
Where a client says I want to just use your balance sheet but another bank is going to be my provider we will move on to the next client.
And we go to Bob Ramsey with FBR please go ahead.
A very strong quarter for investment banking fees and great to see the balance and fee income generally.
Just wondering if you could talk a little about the investment banking pipeline heading into this next quarter and sort of what is incorporated in growth in 2015 versus 2014 and your total fee income guidance on the banking line.
This is Chris.
I'll start and talk a little bit about the investment banking piece of it.
When I look at it I really kind of look at what are the fundamentals of the business over a period of time.
And as I look at those I think we've expanded our capabilities.
We've expanded our sectors like technology consumer.
We just mentioned public sector.
And I think the level of discussions and the strategic nature of the discussions that we're having are better than they've ever been.
Having said that obviously there is a great amount of volatility in when these fees actually come to fruition.
I don't really think about it on a quarter to quarter basis but I do look at it over a period of time.
And if you go back to 2010 we were at about a $200 million run rate.
Now we're at about a $400 million run rate.
If you look at our trailing 12 number currently it's about 13% greater than our trailing 12 number was a year ago.
And I think we can continue that kind of a trajectory in this business based on the people that Don mentioned we've been able to bring onto the platform and the clients we've been able to convert.
So while I like our trajectory I think the long-term trajectory will continue.
There of course will be variations on a quarter to quarter basis.
As it relates specifically to the pipeline with the exception of one particular area we are above where we were in our pipelines last year.
So I feel good about our pipelines.
But as always first of all we have to execute and secondly we have to have the continued cooperation of these markets.
Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
I guess also while I'm on fee income corporate services seemed particularly strong this quarter.
Just any commentary around what drove that line item? We had some stronger derivative income along with some non-yield loan fees occur many we also had a slight reclass from other income up into corporate services this past quarter.
And so all three of those contributed to the growth.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I was just wondering I know you sort of talked about how much you've got left in your existing CCAR capital plan.
I just want to be clear I guess it's your intent to fully complete that in the first quarter here before you guys reload.
That would be our intent to complete it.
Because you use it or lose it.
That would be our expectation.
And then sort of high level I'm sure you don't want to be too precise but thinking about capital plans for next year you paid out 82% of earnings this year your capital ratios are every bit as strong as they were a year ago and you all continue to sort of build capital.
Would it be your hope to sort of return a little bit more than that in the coming year? Bob this is Beth.
As we indicated we have submitted our 2015 capital plan.
I think we have always indicated that we believe we are well positioned both in terms of our capital base as well as the inherent risk in our businesses as well as our balance sheet.
So we think we're well positioned for this CCAR cycle.
We've been successful in the last several years to be a peer leading returner of capital and we look forward to being consistent and an advocate for our shareholders in that regard and being able to announce our results in March.
Our next question is from Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I just had one follow-up question.
Beth and Don I really appreciate how you laid out your outlook and expectations for the year and I guess as a follow-up to Steve's question is the message to us that even if -- even without the benefit of higher rates that key is targeting positive operating leverage for 2015? That's absolutely the case yes that we would expect revenues to grow not only in aggregate but both net interest income and fee income to grow and expense to be relatively stable so we would show positive operating leverage in both scenarios.
And we'll go to Jared Cassidy with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Question for you.
You've given us the targets and you've met -- on slide 16 of the handout and clearly you've reached some of these targets.
Can you paint us a scenario where you'll get your net interest margin to over 3.5% from the standpoint of an interest rate environment what do you think you would need to see for that target to be reached or exceeded? I know higher rates but if you could be a little more precise.
A couple things.
One is I think we'd have to see rates up at least 300 basis points from where they are today and continue to see our balance sheet become more efficient.
We've talked about loan growth exceeding deposit growth and we think that's a component of us being able to achieve that 350 guidance.
And with the rates being 300 Don would that also include a steepening or maintenance of the steepness in the current curve or is it more just the front end of the curve that you're focused on.
It would require some continuation of the steepness of the curve.
We're most impacted from the three to five year end of the curve and shorter.
So as long as we see the steepness thigh that I think that would help drive that kind of an absolute increase in the overall net interest margin.
And then coming back on capital clearly you guys are very well if not over-capitalized by many measures.
You've obviously focused on returning that to shareholders.
Can you share with us your thoughts on acquisitions or mergers.
Obviously there was a big one announced today.
Do you guys consider that or is it more just let's return it to shareholders for the time being and not really focus on doing M&amp;A? Gerard this is Beth.
I think as we've talked about our capital relative to our business plans and strategies over the last couple of years we have had a consistent hierarchy of how we see utilizing our capital and returning and deploying it.
First and foremost to support the organic growth of the Company which we feel our capital base clearly adequately supports.
Second includes dividends and share repurchases and then we said it's important to have capital available for strategic opportunities and in recent years we said obviously there's nothing in our business model we don't have that we need to be successful and you've seen us do some puts and takes in terms of adding businesses and exiting things that are nonstrategic.
But we clearly have adequate capital to be opportunistic should something present itself that makes sense for our Company accretive to our shareholders and is additive to our business plan.
It has been a relatively quiet acquisition era with more what I call one-off idiosyncratic type transactions.
But in the coming years it's hard to predict what would transpire but I think what's more important is to know that we are committed to having the agility as well as the capital to do the right things by our shareholders.
And then finally on returning of capital we recognize the regulators are not very supportive of banks giving back more than 100% of earnings just yet but should that change possibly in the 2016 CCAR philosophically are you guys comfortable with if there aren't any other opportunities to use that capital of giving back more than you potentially could earn in 2016 especially in your Tier 1 common ratio stays at the levels it's at now I think that would depend on a lot of things as far as what we're seeing from an economic environment as far as what we're seeing for our organic growth.
If we look back throughout 2014 we had an 82% return on earnings as far as our dividends and share buybacks and our capital ratios remained relatively flat.
Just because the economy did not allow us to grow the balance sheet at a faster pace so we were able to maintain our capital ratios.
We believe our capital ratios are higher than where they need to be long-term.
And so one way to get there might be higher distributions in the future but that's all speculative as far as what kind of a change would we see in the overall regulatory environment going forward.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Just a question on the level of pension and efficiency charges.
I think those totaled on a combined basis about $80 million in 2014.
I think in the past you've suggested that maybe a $30 million level for those combined expenses would be reasonable starting point for 2015.
Just curious if you've had any changes in your thinking on that.
Generally in that range and depending upon -- you look at the pension settlement charges those occur from two factors.
One with rates being very low and also the high level of headcount reductions we've had throughout the year.
Our headcount is down almost 1 000 people year-over-year.
And so that is a direct impact of that as well.
And so if that were to occur again next year the $30 million to $50 million range wouldn't be bad and that's contemplated as part of our guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just finally from me on page 26 it looks like you saw some higher non-performing loan balances specifically in commercial but also in home equity.
Is there anything to read into that or is that just given that we're at such low levels we're going to begin to see volatility in those numbers not just p consistent declines.
Matt hi this is Bill Hartman.
You're absolutely right.
The numbers are low and any movement is almost expected at this point where things will just bump around go up a little down a little.
We're sort of into three quarters of fairly stable performance right now with the rate of improvement not as great anymore.
Your observation is correct.
And well go to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Looking at efficiency it seems like a bad news/good news store.
I'd love some more color.
In my bad news list first it seems like you might have missed your old efficiency target.
On page 14 of the release it says you had a 66% cash efficiency ratio for 2014 and your prior target I thought was 60% to 65%.
Second your long-term target implies by 2017 you'll get to an efficiency ratio that would still be 200 basis points worse than where it was almost a quarter of a century ago when you first had the merger.
Third it seems like you have some of the savings already like the fixed income headcount reduction's done and you've already exited some businesses.
That's my bad news column.
My good news column is 64% efficiency over in the fourth quarter.
Not clear how sustainable it is.
That's an improvement.
You do have s some things left.
Branches 2% to 3% reduction per year.
How many more years and what do you have left in Six Sigma.
Third the investment bank seems to be an extra lever.
It's interesting.
Seems like your smaller investment bank is having better results than a lot of the large investment or the largest investment banks out there.
So Beth and Don can you help reconcile my kind of bad news/good news thoughts when it comes to efficiency.
Mike you get the prize for the longest question of the day.
We'll give it a shot and try to be direct here.
So as far as our full year 66% efficiency ratio you're right it's higher than our previous near term guidance range of 60% to 65%.
I'd say that going into 2014 we saw that revenues were going to be weaker than what we had expected so we took additional steps to accelerate some of the cost savings.
That resulted in restructuring/pension charges of $80 million which were $50 million higher than our plan and so absent those that increase we would have been within that range despite the fact that revenues were flat.
And so that was clearly an issue for us from that perspective.
Good news you're right current quarter is 64%.
It was benefited by the strength in the revenues and also our continued discipline as far as managing those costs.
And we are very focused on driving those.
As far as the branch rationalization that we do believe that we have a period of time here where we will have the ability to reduce 2% to 3% of the branches for a few years just the way that our customers are using those branches that they have a different definition and becoming more of a sales office than they are just a service center.
And so we think that is an opportunity for us and the past year we were able to save run rate a little less than $9 million a year from that type of consolidation effort.
We had also talked about the occupancy cost in other areas.
Our non-branch related space.
And we've been reshuffling a lot of that space.
Benefit he especially later in 2015 because that's when we'll see the benefit of those lease terminations come through.
And we expect to see a 15% reduction in our non-branch space over the next year and-a-half.
And that will translate to about a $12 million a year run rate savings for us.
As far as Lean Six Sigma and our continuous improvement focus I'd say that we're early stages there that we really have just started to kick off those programs and we're getting more and more traction that the benefit that we're projecting from that in 2015 is stronger than what we had in 2014.
And we think that will continue to gain hold and become more engrained as part of the culture and will help drive that going forward for us.
Okay.
One follow-up then.
The specific follow-up the 15% reduction in occupancy you guys said it was 17% when Beth presented in.
Was that a lower number or did you receive some of those savings.
As it relates to Lean Six Sigma can you quantify any aspect of that or is that kind of culture.
My big picture question for Beth.
We've been down this road before.
Again just comparing the efficiency ratio of some of your peers not to mention the 1994 level versus where you are today and I understand you're changing the culture and you've made strides but is there something a little bit more structural would you consider more business exit.
Thanks.
As far as the occupancy for the non-branch space it's reflective of the changes we've already made.
We have not reduced our projection as far as the savings there.
It's just what we have left out of that 16% or 17% that we would have shared in September.
Then as far as Lean Six Sigma I would say that the economic benefit from those Lean Six Sigma he reviews that we implemented in 2014 was $25 million.
Our projection for 2015 is $40 million for those efforts.
And that's not all the cost savings.
It's just for those specific initiatives that are tied to that use of the Lean Six Sigma tool.
Mike this is Beth.
And to the second part of your question we have made progress in 2014 and we are committed to continuing that progress in our efficiency goals and our productivity in 2015.
This was a year and you have seen across the industry a number of people have noted that progress was difficult in this continued low interest rate environment as well as slow economic growth.
So we did as Don indicated make some decisions early in the year that brought through some higher restructuring charges to make sure we continue to do the things that keep us on the path to be sub-60 which is our commitment.
We are on that path.
We are committed to it.
And as I look at us relative to peers each and every institution has their own unique business model and there are attributes of ours that are different from some of our peers and specifically we have talked about being predominantly a commercial bank with a distinctive Corporate Bank model which as you indicated has indicated significantly to our performance in the form of investment banking and debt placement fees and is a lever.
Our trailing 12 on that business is right at $400 million now.
So as we look at it positive operating leverage is something we've been talking about for well over a year in addition to efficiency as something that is driving our performance and as we have the Corporate Bank is a big contributor it is not a low efficiency business but it has certainly been an outperformer both in absolute performance as well as relative performance this year and as we look into the future.
And we do not have as large a payment business or some of the high yielding consumer assets.
When I look at the mix of our business I think what's important is our focus on the operating leverage focus on our path and our commitments that we're making and continuing to deliver on those.
And weve question from Richard Bove with Rafferty Capital Markets please go ahead.
I've been looking at page 19 I guess of your press release and it indicates that funds available for shareholders actually went down by 1% in 2014 versus 2013.
And trying to relate that to the stock price which was up about 3.6% in 2014 or well below the improvement in the market and even with the rally going on in the stock right now if you take a look at the stock price from let's say January 1st of 2013 to the present it's down about 4% in a market which has been relatively robust.
So I guess the question is have you done any studies at all which indicate what the impact of repurchasing $128 million worth of stock has on the stock price? In other words do you have any rational which shows that by buying back stock it has a positive impact on the stock price? I'll go ahead and take the first crack.
This is Don.
As far as the comment as far as the net income available for key the line that you're looking at that includes our discontinued operations and in 2013 we had a gain on the sale of our victory capital.
And in 2014 we had a loss from the sale of our residual interest in our student loan trust.
And so if you look at just the net income available from continuing operations we're up 8% year-over-year and so I think that's showing the strength in the overall performance for that line item.
As far as the share buyback program that we do believe that it is additive or beneficial to our existing shareholders.
We are constrained as far as what we can do to help manage our capital position based on how the current rules work in this environment and so we believe that it is helpful.
Keep in mind that at $128 million in the current quarter it really doesn't move the dial a lot as far as the market activity and flows for our stock.
So it's helpful but I don't think it's a meaningful addition from that perspective.
And I would just add that I appreciate the perspective on the stock performance because obviously it is among our goals to deliver top performance to our shareholders in terms of returns both through our performance as well as our capital actions.
And if you look at us on a three year TSR we are among the highest performers in the index and really driven in 2013 where we led the peer index in the group in that regard.
Many times following a record breakout year you tend to migrate back to more of the middle of the pack which we did in 2014.
But again when we look and I think shareholder return needs to be viewed kind of in multiyear windows extremely strong performance both retroactively on a three year basis.
We felt like 2014 was solid and as we said as we go into this year with positive momentum and confidence tore what we will continue to do in terms of our ability to build value for our shareholders.
I understand that basically there's a massive demand upon all managements in this industry to buy back shares.
What I don't understand is in virtually no case where there's been huge buybacks of shares has there been outperformance of the stocks vis-a-vis the market.
And I'm guessing that the reason why managements are buying back stock is not because they studied the impact of the buybacks on stock prices but because their investors are saying we want you to buy back stock.
And therefore I'd really be interested if you have a really have studied is there a relationship between buying back stock and an increase in the price of the shares? Because clearly with all these banks selling at premiums to book value buying back stock is not what it used to be.
Well I would just like to add there that we do continuously look at whether or not we should be using the capital and the earnings to buy back shares.
We do believe that it still is an attractive price for us to buy back that we are generating earnings that exceed the need from a capital perspective to support our business organically.
And so we feel it's most appropriate for us to return that to our shareholders.
And based on how the current rules are structured that we are limited as to the form that that distribution can occur.
And so again we feel that it's appropriate for us to continue to buy back shares and feel that it's an appropriate price for us to continue to use the earnings to do so.
And we have a question from Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I wanted to focus on we've seen the invest banking kicking in a lot of the super-regional banks.
What is the tailwind or competitively how's the landscape shifting to be able to allow for you all to take advantage of what really seems to be a very strong trend? Marty I will let Chris Gorman augment the answer.
I do think it is important to note that we have a very distinctive Corporate Bank model and it's something that we have built over years to be a very sophisticated platform and I think as we look at 2014 had record performance and relative outperformance versus a regional peer group.
I'll let Chris talk a little about what some of what the drivers are of what we think is a very distinctive part of our business model.
Sure Beth.
Marty the way we see it is there's -- although there's 7 000 banks in the United States there's probably 18 or so kind of globally that have the capability to complete sort of integrated corporate and investment banking type work.
Most the pre come fence predominance of those banks are focused on very large companies.
We are focused on mid-cap middle market.
You have many boutiques who have very good at what they do.
Clearly don't have the capabilities that we do.
So the opportunity for us is first and foremost focus and we focus on certain industries and specifically on the middle market.
We think actually focus propels growth.
The second thing that we think we have a huge advantage is our size.
And when I say size I mean sizes and small.
Our entire Corporate Bank only has 2 000 people in it so it's pretty easy for us to ma maneuver and to get things done on behalf of our clients.
The other thing I would say that really as we think about some of these step functions I think the stability of our platform over a period of time is both attractive to the people that we bring on to the platform and I think it's attractive to our clients and prospects.
So that's the sort of the opportunity that we see out there.
And Beth what I also wanted to kind of focus on was your investing in payments or cash management.
That's an area where you've been kind of behind the curve.
Can you see you replicating the success there as you have developed investment banking platform that we just talked about? Marty we do have our commercial payments business embedded within our Corporate Bank to align is very much to the strategies and how our targeted clients we can matter to them meet their needs.
So we have done a variety of things as we've invested to align our commercial payments capabilities with some of our targeted industry groups.
We have developed new product capabilities that we have deployed in purchase and prepaid.
And again that fits well with some of our targeted verticals.
So within that we are making sure we have a core competitive offering and then we're also using the strength of our Corporate Bank model and our Community Bank model to make sure that we find unique niches of growth and opportunity where we can be relevant and have the opportunity to get returns and growth for it.
Thanks.
Just lastly principal investing is that an outgrowth from having more connection with these middle market and investment banking and other types of avenues or is that something else? What are kind of the sources? Does that tie to your core business? Marty this is Don.
This is a piece of the business that we've had for a number of years.
It really isn't linked at the hip with our capital markets activity.
It's just an investment strategy that existed years ago and we've been benefiting from that.
It's more of a wind down mode for us now and we think over the next 10 years that that will continue to.
Thanks.
And we have a question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I just got off the BB &amp; T conference call.
They were of course touting the Susquehanna acquisition and the fact they will again entry into Cincinnati and I think their plans are to expand further into the Midwest.
Can you speak to the competitive conditions there and where we stand in terms of pricing and structure.
We're hearing a lot of horror stories earlier in 2014 and if you can just tell us how we ended out the year.
Nancy this is Beth.
I will tell you that I think this has been a year where in virtually every conference call I think every bank has talked about the competitive intensity in the market particularly in the loan generation area.
So I would tell you nationally we see a lot of intensity.
It is true that historically the Midwest has been outsized in its competitive intensity given the number of competitors that are here.
We find that we compete well across all those different markets.
And as we look into 2014 I think it will be continue to be highly competitive on pricing on struck structure on product offerings and I think we have done over the last couple years if you hear us talk trying to sharpen our focus about where we can matter up our execution and our ability to reach targeted clients and bring the full relationship offerings of our bank and translate those into meaningful gains in acquisition and expansion of client relationships.
And we feel like we have several years of performance in that regard and as we said we have confidence we look forward that that's a strategy that fits our bank and our markets.
Okay.
And another question for you and/or Don.
I mean liquidity you only in recent years have you become what I would call a very liquid organization.
Obviously hanging onto core deposits is a big goal for you.
As we get closer to the interest rate increase time and I'm hoping we are getting closer how are you -- what kind of conversations are you having with your retail clients and what kind of product planning are you doing to make sure that when liquidity starts to lessen that you hang onto the deposit base that you've got? And grow it hopefully.
Nancy this is Beth.
I believe this would be a nice opportunity for Dennis Devine of the Co-President of our Community Bank to talk a little about the value proposition and how we are making sure that the core funding which we also by the way agree that we hope interest rates are very close to going up but as rates potentially move that our core funding and our deposit mix as well as our client base there has really changed substantially over the last couple years and puts us in a very different position.
Thank Beth.
Thanks for the question Nancy.
You see in the balance sheet the continuing decline of time deposits.
So the CD book has really begun to roll over the years.
But a commensurate offset with the growth in the our core liquid deposits transactional deposits as well as money market deposits within the.
Commercial deposits we talked about earlier.
The strategy of the retail organization is organized around client growth.
You've seen new products introduced this year to accomplish just that.
We have a relationship based strategy.
So when you look at the yields that we're currently offering within the non-time book today you see we continue to manage that.
Really thoughtfully around those client relationships and certainly as rates begin to -- as interest rates grow they the market we've got a core relationship book that we'll be working with.
As we assess what the yield on those deposits will continue to look like.
So you'll see us grow clients.
You'll see us really thoughtfully manage the current book.
And it will be a sense of what.
Holistically across key but certainly very deliberate understanding of what does that look like in the money market book relative to what does that look like against each one of the transactional deposits that we have within our business.
We're in a strong position given the decline that you've seen in timed deposits and a strong relationship based liquid book within our Community Bank.
Do you feel that you'll have to perhaps give more of the rate rises to clients and to customers and more quickly than you have in the past? People have been complaining and I'm sure you're aware of low rates for a very long time and my sense is that they're going to be more sensitive when they begin to hear the news that rates have begun to rise.
It's an unprecedented rate environment.
We clearly will manage that closely going forward.
We've got some good experience here and we expect that given the relationship nature of our clients that we'll be able to manage that very well.
And we don't have rate shoppers today.
And with no further question Ill turn it back to you Ms.
Mooney for any closing comments.
Again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to your Investor Relations team at 216-689-4221 and that concludes our remarks.
Please have a good rest of the day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the KeyCorps First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Operator.
Good morning.
And welcome to KeyCorps first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me for todays presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; E.J.
Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide two is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Im now turning to slide three.
Ill provide some overview comments on the first quarter and then Ill turn it over to Don to give you more detail on our financial results.
The first quarter was a solid start to the year.
We produced bottomline results consistent with our expectations by managing expenses and growing revenue in many of our businesses which helped offset the impacts of higher provision expense and lower revenue in investment banking and debt placement fees.
Revenue was up from the prior year and expenses were well managed resulting in modest positive operating leverage for the quarter.
We had solid loan growth with average balances up 5% from the prior year and as in prior quarters continued to be driven by an increase commercial financial and agricultural loans which were up 12%.
Most fee income categories were in line with our expectations and reflected growth from investments we have been making in areas such as trust investment services and cards and payments.
And as I indicated investment banking and debt placement fees were lower this quarter.
The decline was due to lower revenue from loan syndications and financial advisory fees.
Although investment banking and debt placement fees can vary on a quarterly basis we expect this business to grow in 2015 from its record level of performance in 2014.
Expenses were well-controlled up only $5 million from the same quarter last year despite the impact of the Pacific Crest Securities acquisition.
We remained committed to continue to improve productivity and efficiency resulting in our outlook for positive operating leverage for the year.
Additionally we absorb higher credit costs with our provision up $31 million from a year ago period and in the quarter our provision expense exceeded net charge-off.
Our asset quality remained strong as net charge-offs continue to be well below our targeted range.
And while the lending environment remains competitive we are remaining disciplined on quality and structure and staying true to our relationship strategy.
During the quarter we also remained disciplined in managing our strong capital position.
We repurchased $208 million in common shares in the first quarter completing our 2014 capital plan.
We were pleased to receive no objection to our 2015 capital plan from the Federal Reserve.
We expect to return a significant amount of our net income to our shareholders over the next five quarters including a share repurchase program of up to $725 million and subject to approval by our Board of Directors and increase in the quarterly dividend of 15%.
We anticipate these actions will lead to an estimated payout ratio that is among the highest in our peer group for the third consecutive year.
Overall it was a solid start to the year.
While the pace of economic recovery and the low interest rate environment remain challenging we believe we are well positioned.
Now Ill turn the call over to Don to discuss the details of our fiscal results.
Thanks Beth.
Im on slide five.
This morning we reported net income from continuing operations of $0.26 per common share for the first quarter compared to $0.26 for the year ago quarter and $0.28 for the fourth quarter.
I will cover many of these items on this slide throughout my presentation.
So Ill now turn to slide six.
Average total loan growth continued in the first quarter with balances up $3 billion or 5% compared to year ago quarter and up $971 million from the fourth quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans and it was broad based across Keys business lending segments.
Average commercial financial and agricultural loans were up $3 billion or 12% compared to the prior year and were up $1 billion or 4% on annualized compared to the fourth quarter.
Continuing on the slide seven on the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits were up $3 billion one year ago and down $284 million from the fourth quarter.
Deposit growth of 5% from the prior year was driven by growth in non-interest bearing deposits and strength from our commercial mortgage servicing business.
Compared to the prior quarter balances decreased slightly primarily due to expected declines in our CD balances.
And the cost of our total deposits remained low at 15 basis points compared to the 20 basis points one year ago reflecting our more favorable deposit mix.
Turning to slide eight taxable equivalent net interest income was $577 million for the first quarter compared to $569 million in the first quarter of 2014 and $588 million in the fourth quarter of this year.
Net interest income was up $8 million from a year ago with a benefit from higher loan balances offset by lower earning asset yields.
Compared to the fourth quarter net interest income was down $11 million primarily as a result of fewer days in the quarter.
Our net interest margin was 2.91% which was down 3 basis points from the prior quarter reflecting the impact from lower earning asset yields.
We expect to maintain our modest asset sensitivity and the duration and characteristics of Keys loan and investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide nine shows the summary of noninterest income which accounts for 43% of our total revenue.
Noninterest income in the first quarter was $437 million up 1% from the prior year and down 11% from the prior quarter.
Compared to the prior year we saw growth in several of our fee-based businesses including trust and investment services and cards and payments.
We also benefited from higher principal investing gains and corporate-owned life insurance.
Offsetting this growth was a $16 million decline in investment banking and debt-placement fees that resulted from lower financial advisory fees as well as the impact to the timing of closed transactions.
Additionally operating lease income and other leasing gains declined due to the early termination of leveraged lease in the year ago period.
Compared to the fourth quarter lower non-interest income results reflects seasonality and several fee categories as well as variability in our model I referenced earlier.
The growth we saw in the quarter was more than offset by the decline in investment banking and debt placement fees which was primarily caused by lower revenue from loan syndications and financial advisory fees.
Turning to slide 10 non-interest expense for the first quarter was $669 million up $5 million from the year ago period and down $35 million from the fourth quarter.
First quarter expenses were 1% higher than our prior year primarily related to the Pacific Crest acquisition and higher employee benefit cost.
Compared to the fourth quarter expenses were down 5% as lower incentive compensation marketing cost salaries and professional fees more than offset higher employee benefit cost.
This quarter our cash efficiency ratio was 65% which reflects our hard work and improvement over the past few years.
The efficiency ratio remains an important measure for us and we expect to continue to make progress in 2015.
We remain committed to generating cost savings through our continuous improvement efforts which will enable us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
Turning to slide 11 net charge-offs of $28 million or 20 basis points of average loans in the first quarter which continues to be well below our targeted range.
In the first quarter we began reporting provision for credit losses on our income statement.
This line includes provision for loan on lease losses as well as the provision for unfunded commitments which was moved from non-interest expense.
Prior years have been adjusted for this comparison.
In the first quarter provision for credit losses of $35 million was $31 million higher than a year ago period.
Additionally this quarter provision exceeded charge-offs.
At March 31 2015 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.37% of period-end loans and 182% coverage over non-performing loans.
Turning to slide 12 this quarter we begin reporting our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio which was implemented as part of the Regulatory Capital Rules for banks like Key at the beginning of this year.
Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was strong at March 31st at 10.8%.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $208 million in gross common shares in the first quarter which completes our 2014 capital plan.
And we are now moving forward with our 2015 capital plan including a new share repurchase program of up to $725 million in common shares over the next five quarters and an increased dividend subject to Board approval.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitments to remaining discipline in managing our strong capital position.
Moving on slide 13 as we look ahead for the remainder of 2015 we remain on track and our committed to meeting the full year outlook that we shared on our fourth quarter call in January.
Average loans should grow in the mid single digit range as we benefit from the strength in our commercial businesses.
We anticipate net interest income growth in low to mid-single digit percentage growth compared to 2014 which does include the benefit from higher rate as we currently are modeling short-term rates to increase 25 basis points late in the year.
Without the benefit of higher rates we would anticipate net interest income to be up in the low single digit range.
Our net interest margin should remain relatively stable and based on interest rates it may increase later in the year.
Non-interest income is expected to be up in the mid single digit percentage range for the year and full year reported expenses should be relatively stable with 2014.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs to lower targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points and we also expect provision to approximate net charge-off.
And finally we expect to continue to execute on our share repurchase authorization consistent with our capital plan.
With that I will close and I turn the call back over to operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maybe I will start.
Looking at the pullback of the investment banking and debt placement fees the drop was far more dramatic than what I was looking for.
Even expected loan syndication and debt placement fees performed.
Could you quantify how much of that decline actually came from those two items? Maybe talk about how the rest of the business performed in the quarter and then comment on the pipeline and where you expect this to rebound to? Sure Steve.
Its Chris Gorman.
Good morning.
So as we look at this business and weve always felt this way.
If we really need to look at it on a trailing 12-month basis and as Beth mentioned in her opening comments we still anticipate that we will grow our investment banking and debt placement fees in 2015 as we have in each of the last five years.
Now the two areas that you point out where we had challenges were specifically isolated on our financial advisory and our syndications business and those to some extent are related.
We do a lot of buy side work and as you know in the M&amp;A business in general there is a lot of variability and we ran into some issues seasonalitys part of it timing as it relates to specific deals is part of it.
And the other thing is in this kind of an environment.
In some instances our clients were not able to win the deals that we were advising them on just based on the climate.
So those were a few of the things that impacted those specific areas.
Now the areas that -- the other areas from a product perspective were impacted are things like our balance sheet.
We are obviously able to grow our balance sheet well and we also saw strength in certain sector in our industrial and reclass.
As it relates to the backlog the backlog is strong.
Its up about 130% of what it was last year.
One of the things that gives us a lot of comfort is you look at held for sale and as you look at what we have in terms of held for sale thats elevated two times what it was at year end and Im looking at 331 ending numbers and maybe four times what it was a year ago.
So if you look at all those things and Im not with our clients a lot the activity is -- there is not for lack of activity a lot of activity lot of good discussions.
So in general thats why we feel pretty good as we look forward.
So Chris if you look at that trailing average that you cite you are anyway a net $80 million to $100 million range per quarter.
Is that where you expect to -- at least it will move back to here in near term? So we dont look on it.
We dont look at it on a per quarter basis.
But as you think about if we are going to grow at year-over-year and last year we did -- I dont know 392 or so.
Obviously that means on an average we are going to have to have some pretty significant quarters in the last three quarters of the year.
Yes.
Steven this is Don.
And youre right that that would imply an average of about a $110 million a quarter for the rest of this year.
So there would be a meaningful step-up from where we were in the first quarter.
Okay.
And Don on the margin guidance was unchanged which is really full year guidance.
But until we get higher short-term rates should we think about NIM pressure somewhere to what we saw this quarter? We would think generally they would be fairly stable with where it is.
But Ill tell you that this past quarter some of the impact was the issuance of the debt which cost us about a basis point.
We did have some loan fee that came through in the fourth quarter that wouldnt be recurring in nature.
And also weve been expecting that our loan growth would exceed our deposit growth.
And as strong as our loan growth has been our deposits year-over-year were also up 5%.
And so that efficiency of the balance sheet didnt materialize as much as we would have expected in the first quarter this year compared to year ago.
So that what helps keep that margin stable over for the remainder of the year is having a little bit more efficient balance sheet.
And just one final one on the EMP portfolio are you seeing any surprises thus far in the spring with redetermination of borrowing basis? Thanks.
This is Bill Hartmann Steve.
Weve seen exactly what we expected to see in that portfolio.
No surprises.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Don I was wondering if you can just provide a little more context in terms of the loan growth.
There was really good more so at period end.
And also I saw that you moved a bunch over to held-for-sale.
Can you talk about like the progression of growth throughout the quarter? And then also then just that color on the -- whats moving to held-for-sale and when do you expect to get rid of that? No youre right.
As far as the loan growth we had a strong finish to the fourth quarter which set up the first quarter well but we also saw period end loan growth from fourth quarter to first quarters.
Were very pleased with that.
Now as far as the loans held for sale those are designated at a time of origination to be placed into that category.
And so it really reflects the timing of when transactions are closed.
And thats what also gives us confident as Chris mentioned earlier as far as the outlook for fee income going forward.
Okay.
And my follow-up is Don underneath the surface youve had the good expense control again underneath the line.
And Im wondering the $7 million of the continuous improvement and I think youre still on track to do around the same amount that you had indicated before the 30.
Are we kind of had a good level for expenses? Can you still expect that stable? Any drift as this investment bank revenue potentially comes up and we will see that naturally shift back up.
It seems have been again a seasonally lower number given the pullback in the investment bank as well.
So I just want to understand that trajectory.
Youre right.
That first quarter has some seasonal impacts as far as the negative the benefit costs and highest in the first quarter compared to the rest of the year.
But that we also tend to have lower marketing expenses.
And in this quarter as you highlighted our incentive expense was lower because of the lower investment banking and debt placement fees.
And so as those revenues pick up that we will see an increase to the incentive line item as well but that still would help us meet our positive operating leverage target for the full year with having that type of growth.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Don.
Our next question is from Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just had a quick question on sort of the health of particularly the Midwest manufacturing base because as you have a couple cross-currents on one hand energy is obviously kind of a tailwind for their cost but by same token the strong dollar seemingly would be more of a headwind.
I wonder if you can just sort of talk about what your customers are thinking and saying about health of their overall businesses? Sure.
Scott its Chris.
So as you can imagine it sort of depends by vertical.
I would say that our manufacturers -- obviously the dollar has made it more challenging for our industrial clients so thats one area.
Areas that are particularly benefited in the current operating environment are specialty chemical business where natural gas is a feedstock.
Were doing a lot of business right now in specialty chemical.
Conversely obviously our oil and gas business which we talked about earlier the pullback in terms of CapEx in most of the shale plays is 30% to 40% and I think youll see that triple through in the secondary and tertiary effect.
And then lastly one thing that really impacts the Midwest in the significant way is the automotive business and our analyst is looking for sales at retail this year to be $16.9 million units up from $16.4 million.
And there is also a positive mix shift lot of SUVs and pickup trucks which are higher margin.
And then one thing that hasnt been discussed a lot is the Class 8 Truck market which is also strong.
So thats kind of a walk through kind of whats going on in the Midwest economy.
Okay.
Thats perfect.
And I think most of my others were already answered.
So appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank Scott.
Thanks Scott.
And well go to Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick one for me as well I am sorry Don if I missed this in the prepared remarks? But could you give us an update on where you are on the LCR and also if your guidance for stable NIM if the fed doesnt move this year contemplate any further LCR related balance sheet actions? As far as LCR for the fourth quarter we are operating on a regular basis at high 80s so we are in good shape as far as being able to achieve that 90% target for the first quarter of next year.
Weve also continued to migrate our investment portfolio to more Ginnie Mae that we are in at about 44% of the total portfolio and as we have cash flows from the existing portfolio well continue to reinvest those in Ginnie Mae.
And so we do not expect any significant impact on our margin going forward from any further actions and believe that that the guidance doesnt contemplate us achieving that 90% plus coverage ratio by next year.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
And well go to Kevin St.
Pierre with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
You had very solid growth in commercial loans but the 6 basis point decline in the yield let to sort of flattish interest revenue from the commercial portfolio? Could you comment on how much of that is driven by the competitive environment? Don you mentioned some fees which may have not come through can you talk about the decline in the yield? The decline in the yield we had about $2 million of higher fees that came through in the fourth quarter that didnt reoccur in the first quarter and werent present for the first quarter of last year.
And so if you take a look at the total loan yields over the last year it would have been an average rate of compression less than that 6 basis points that you saw a reference.
So we dont think itll continue at that same type of pace but that there still is pressure on loan yields that we are seeing new originations still coming in about 25 basis points lower than where we were a year ago and not seeing that pressure come down much at all.
Okay.
And maybe just a bigger NIM question or a broader question.
We have seen about eight plus quarters of a steady lead down in the NIM and now you are guiding that if rates dont move up will still be sort of flattish? What from a big picture perspective has changed why -- that we wouldnt expect that continue to 3 to 5 basis points lead downward over the next few quarters? Yeah.
There are two components that would be driving that.
One is that our yield on our investment portfolio is now down to 2.1% so the further reduction there should not have as much of an impact as what it has had historically.
And the second is that we still believe that our loan growth will exceed deposit growth and that will allow us to have a little bit more efficient balance sheet.
And so even though we would expect pressure to remain on loan yields we think the mix of the balance sheet should offset that allowing us to maintain a more stable margin.
Take a look at our overall cash position.
It was about $2.5 billion again this past quarter which is above where we would typically target of around a $1 billion.
And so thats continued to put pressure on the margin from that perspective as well.
Great.
Thanks very much Don.
Our next question is from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Just in terms of your expense guidance have stabled is -- how much is in incremental efficiency charges is in that number this year? Weve talked about our range consistent with where we are operating for the first quarter which is in the $30 million plus or minus range and so we had $7 million of charges in Q1 and wed expect that to be about that same range for the full year.
Got you.
And does that drop-off in 2016 or is that just more of a stable ongoing number that we should expect? We are going to be continued to focus on continues improvement throughout the organization.
And so I dont know its going to continue at $30 million but we will have some level continue going forward just because we believe that this ongoing opportunity is to right size our branch distribution of 2% to 3% a year and we will also have other effort to look at end-to-end processing type of opportunities to get more efficiencies to help fund some of the investments going forward.
So we really look at this as more of a core component of our cost base for now.
Understood.
Okay.
And second question is just in terms of loan growth obviously very strong C&amp;I growth with some of the other categories other than construction probably not as strong.
I know your focus has been on C&amp;I but do you guys have any commentary on more of the weakness in some of the other categories? Thanks.
As far as the weakness one thing it does impact to have we still have about $2 billion of exit portfolios that are mainly in other categories a lot in the consumer book and also some in the commercial leasing book.
So as that continues to run down at about $150 million to $200 million a quarter that will put pressure on those portfolios.
Then you look beyond that we dont have the typical consumer book of business that really is primarily focused on our home equity and our first mortgage position and doesnt include an indirect auto portfolio where others are seeing much stronger growth than what we would experienced during the last year or so.
So I would say that its more demand focused as far as the weaker growth then also reflective of that exit portfolio I mentioned.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Next we will go to John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
How much of the $6 million linked quarter decline in comp expense was tied to the lower investment banking incentive accruals? We do provide a little bit more of a breakout on that on page 20 of the earnings press release.
You can see that our incentives were down from $105 million in the fourth quarter to $70 million in the first quarter this year that this comparable amount in the first quarter of 2014 would have been $72 million.
So its a decline in both the year-over-year and also linked quarter information.
Okay.
So should that be the extent of the snapback that we could see in the comp expense line assuming we see the investment banking activity rebound? The $35 million change is probably outside what you would see from taking the investment banking backup from the fourth quarter -- from the first quarter of this year to fourth quarter of last year.
But we should see some increase in incentives when those revenues do come through at a stronger pace.
Okay.
All right.
And then also related to expenses your long-term below 60% target for the efficiency ratio can you just help us understand how much by way of higher rates is in that assumption for the fed funds target? If you look at slide 16 of the deck it does have to walk forward of that efficiency ratio and you can see based on that there is probably a range of that impact.
Weve talked about we would expect our efficiency ratio to be in the low 60s without the benefit of rates and in the high 50s with the benefit of rate.
So we havent gotten more specific than that.
Okay.
All right.
Good.
Thanks.
And then lastly on the energy portfolio.
Sorry if you already said this.
But did you take an energy related loan loss provision this quarter or did you reallocate incremental reserves from unallocated to allocated for energy this quarter? As we talked about last quarter we did set aside a portion of our judgmental reserve for the oil and gas portfolio and we did see the portfolio moving in line with our expectations and so we did not have any adjustment or increase to our overall allowance this past quarter for that migration.
Okay.
And you haven not quantified what your energy specific reserve is as of this time? We have not no.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning.
Its Jason Harbes actually for Matthew.
Good morning.
Hey.
Good morning.
So nice strength in the trust and investment services line this quarter from I guess Pacific Crest.
So just curios as to get your take on how sustainable you think that is this year and just to get a sense for your appetite to do additional acquisitions along those lines? Jason it is Chris.
As it relates to Pacific Crest we feel really good about where the business is positioned.
We think we will continue to be able to generate revenues in trust and investment services.
Just this Monday we actually combined the two broker/dealers.
So now Pacific Crest is a fully integrated vertical technology vertical within our corporate and investment bank.
As it relates to other acquisitions there are clearly businesses out there that are very niche very focused and that we think could fit into the platform that we built.
So just as we a couple of years ago grew by adding things in our third party commercial loan servicing business and last year grew by acquiring Pacific Crest.
There are other opportunities out there but in the ordinary course we always are looking.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just as a follow-up or maybe switching over to credit.
The credit costs came in a little higher and it looks like the NPAs in the commercial side picked up as well.
I mean was that a function of anything in particular or perhaps energy or just want to get your take on kind of whats driving the credit cost higher and to get maybe your outlook for credit cost going forward? Jason this is Bill Hartmann.
If we look back over the last several quarters what we have seen is a very strong asset quality being pretty consistent from quarter-to-quarter.
So we think that weve actually kind of normalized at this level.
And we have also indicated that because its -- the statistics are so low at this point any one or two smaller items could actually move the numbers around a little bit.
And so we will expect to see some modest variation from quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I have few questions.
Firstly I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about C&amp;I loan growth.
Youve been asked a few questions about that.
But one other things I have been puzzling over is what is -- has been keeping C&amp;I growth so high for so long.
And it would be helpful to get your perspective on what you think is continuing to drive that simply because at one point it was inventory builds than we heard about companies that were spending on infrastructure especially technology infrastructure but you continue to see C&amp;I loan growth juggling along and pretty attractive rates and your results show the same thing.
So at this point when you look at the drivers of C&amp;I loan growth what would you attribute those to? Sameer its Chris.
Its obviously situational company by company.
But as we kind of step back and look at it it is not an increase in utilization.
Our utilization rates have been flat for the last four quarters.
In certain instances we do see people investing in property plant and equipment demands hiring a lot of people.
We do see some transactional activity which obviously helps growth.
And in our instance we believe we have been able with our unique model to take some share.
Weve added 142 clients in the first quarter and we think thats a factor as well.
Okay.
Its just interesting within the context of the Fed data showing 10% growth in C&amp;I loans for everybody across the industry so and it seems like everybody is doing similar things in generating growth which led me to think maybe to some more underlying fundamentals driving that but your perspective is helpful.
The other thing I was curious about is if you could just talk again or just remind us about your go-to-market strategy in your investment banking business.
And the reason I asked that is because for quite some time now we have been hearing about the large cap banks and how from an investment banking standpoint it used to be the case where they could more easily use their balance sheets to help their capital markets businesses doing investment banking and then promising loans and packaging those deals and they have had a very difficult time from what we are hearing and doing that for quite sometime now.
So I was wondering from where you said and as you managed that business do you go to market using your balance sheet more readily perhaps to help support your investment banking business or is that something thats going to affect you as well so your perspective there would also be helpful? So our approach is a very focused relationship approach and we are very targeted and that we focused on certain sectors and specifically middle market companies within those sectors.
As it would happen as our businesses continue to evolve often we start a relationship with an advisory or transformative kind of transaction.
But we do think there is huge value and we see it resonate with our clients to have an integrated corporate and investment bank where we can use our balance sheet or we can -- as principal or we can act as agent helping our clients access the markets and grow their business.
Okay.
And then just a couple of other quick ones GE Capital thats selling a bunch of different businesses and assets have you express an interest in acquiring any of those businesses or portfolios? Sameer this is Beth.
As you would expect we dont typically comment on any specific transactions that might or might not in the market.
And as a historical precedent we havent bought portfolios for say just to supplement our balance sheet.
But where we would see perhaps client opportunity fit with our business model and risk profile I think as youve seen some of the puts and takes that we have done over the last couple of years we have reviewed those types of opportunities in the past.
GE I would say has been a strong competitor in the market.
We see them in many of our businesses.
And we think these kinds of situation often create opportunities for our teams as markets get disrupted.
Okay.
Thanks Beth.
And then just my last one was on the tax rate would seem to be a little below where youve been trending over the last few quarters anything unusual going on there this quarter? We did have a few credits come through this quarter that we talked about for the future quarters that we see an effective tax rate in the 26% to 28% range for those future quarter.
So there was a slight benefit this quarter.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next go to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Don can you share with us on your buyback? Are you permitted if you want to do more of it in the first or second quarters of the period which starts of course second quarter of this year for the CCAR fiscal year? Can you do -- does that spread out evenly overall four or five quarters or can you frontloaded if you wanted to? Great question.
And as we submit our capital plans the instructions are that we need to keep our capital actions consistent with our overall plan which doesnt necessarily allow for our frontend loading of those share buybacks.
The other thing we do have is that when we issue shares for employee benefit-related plans and that were able to buy those back and those tend to happen in the first quarter of each calendar year.
And thats why you saw a higher level of share buybacks here in the first quarter of this year compared to what youve seen in the previous three quarters.
Thank you.
And on your slide 9 -- 15 where you guys give us the progress on targets for success some of them have obviously been met and you exceed some of them.
What kind of interest rate environment would you envision to have your net interest margin get to that target of 3.5% from where you are today at 2.91%? We do have to see a much more normal rate environment which would be up to about 300 basis points from where it is today before we could start to get to that three-fifth margin.
So its something that would be very difficult if not impossible for our balance sheet to achieve until weve start to see that rate environment change.
Sure.
And coming back to your comments on about the efficiency of the balance sheet and seeing that deposit growth? Are there any plans I know your CDs have been coming down the higher cost deposits? Are there any other plans you could put in place to reduce some of the higher cost deposits quicker to make that balance sheet more efficient? One area that weve been focused on as it is making sure that where we have collateralize deposits that we encourage those to be full relationships for us to support that kind of deposit to be on our balance sheet.
And so weve seen some of those balances leave and we would expect to see a several more leave between now and the end of year.
But as we look at our deposit mix we have been very aggressive as far as managing rates and making sure that we are focused on supporting more of the relationship in total.
And so we are trying to make sure that we match up our higher rates with our best overall customers.
And then just finally I want to make sure I heard you correctly you guys talked about that the loan growth at the end of the fourth quarter accelerated for the fourth quarter result? Did you see that gain at the end of March there was an acceleration of loan growth as well? We did -- that [period] [ph] balances are up at the end of the first quarter compared to the average.
And so we had a nice close to the end of the quarter which positioned as well in the second quarter as well.
Great.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go to Jeffrey Elliott with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Hello there.
I wondered if you could discuss in a bit more detail what you can do to deliver on the long-term cash efficiency ratio target if rates dont go up so going down into the low 60s excluding rate rises because I guess if I look at 1Q 15 you were at 65.1% and 1Q 14 you were at 65.1%? It kind of feels like without rates thats being going side ways or I guess youve got some plans that you think should enable you to get it down? As far as the year-over-year stability that we had some non-recurring type of revenues in the first quarter of last year including the gain on the sale of the leverage lease transaction which helped benefit the first quarter of last year.
As you look at our long-term plans its focused on driving positive operating leverage.
And so that starts with growing revenues and even with our full year guidance for 2015 we talk about showing year-over-year growth and net interest income even if rates are flat.
And we experience that during the first quarter if you look at the year-over-year change in our net interest income its up $8 million despite the fact that rates are flat with the first quarter of last year.
Other revenue initiatives would include the benefit of some of the investments we have been making.
Weve been adding to our frontline distribution capabilities for both the Corporate Bank and the Community Bank and those arent all fully mature yet and so we will see additional benefits from those investments.
Weve been making investments in payments space and if you look at our cards and payments revenue its up 10% year-over-year if that reflects the investments weve been making there and so our guidance for the full year of this year is mid single-digit growth in fee income.
And so we believe that we can generate revenue growth and keep our expenses relatively flat.
And the initiatives we are focused on on driving that expense level to be flat would include continued focused on reducing occupancy cost both through non-branch space where weve talked about reducing that by 15% between now and 2016.
Earlier we mentioned that our branches are expect to go down by 2% to 3% per year as we make that infrastructure more efficient.
And we are having on going efforts to take a look at our front and back office functions to see on an end-to-end basis like we make those efficient and thats just could be part of the culture here and driving that continuous improvement.
And so the combination of all those that revenue growth supporting -- supported by keeping the expenses flat from getting cost saves to -- save for the investments we are making give us confidence so we can drive that efficiency ratio to that low 60% range even without the benefit rates.
And then just to follow-up on some of the earlier questions on credit and we are taking up criticized assets I appreciate that your credit is pretty good and [want to see more rise which] [ph] can move things around a bit.
But on the other hand it looks like its the end of a 23 quarter half of those criticized assets declining every quarter? So can you be little more specific on what the areas well resulting in the uptick and how you think about things from here? Yeah.
This is Bill Hartmann Jeffrey.
So we track the portfolio very closely and we are not seeing any trend that might be suggesting that there has been any change in the environment for credit.
Again kind of reiterating what I said earlier were at such a low level across our loan books that one or two names that might occur are going to change the -- are going to change some of those statistics modestly.
But we are not seeing that thats going to have a significant move in our credit losses at all.
And could you say what industries or different kind of flavor of larger clients smaller clients geography I mean anything at all to give us an idea where this is come from? We really cant say that because it didnt in anyone industry or geography.
We are not seeing any trend.
Its just -- we are operating with a lot of small numbers and any day you could have something that changes.
And its just the way normal business environment is.
Right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And well go to Jill Shea with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you.
You touched on this a little bit on the prior question just about the deposit mix and CDs and time deposits coming down but could you just speak more generally about total funding cost and what you sort of factor in in terms of your outlook for holding the NIM relatively stable from here? Yes.
Our outlook would assume that we basically continue to see funding costs remain relatively stable but that show again a change in the mix overall as far as the balance sheet and see that the loan growth would exceed the deposit growth and allow us to come up with the more efficient balance sheet.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And we will go to David Eads with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
Thanks for taking the call.
Just quickly on expenses we have a nice tick-down in the business services and professional fee line both on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Its a little bit surprising just given -- weve heard about on pressures about regulatory and technology spending front of note.
I was wondering if you could touch on kind of where you see the outlook for that expense line item.
Generally we would see -- this has been the new line baseline for us and not seeing significant changes one way or the other from that line item.
Great.
And then just if you could touch a little bit more on kind of your energy vertical kind of because you have such a unique perspective there.
Are you guys seeing the clients looking to tap capital market early and like how long do you think that is going to last and how much kind of appetite there is from investors? And then I guess what that kind of means for your -- the outlook for either putting more or less in terms of energy on the balance sheet? David its Chris.
We have seen that our clients have been able to go to the markets.
And so that one of the things that gives us confidence with respect to the portfolio.
In our portfolio less than 40% of the capital structure is typically senior debt and what weve seen is that our clients have been able to go to the high yield market.
So its -- we feel that there will be a time when there is an opportunity to continue to grow the business but I think right now we are in the mode of advising our clients as everybody works through what has been a very sudden price change.
Right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we will go to Nancy Bush with [ANB] [ph].
Please go ahead.
Also note thats NAB but thats okay.
Good morning NAB Good morning.
Going back to your commentary on commercial line utilization we heard yesterday from I think both USB and PNC that they were seeing an uptick or it was sounded like a very modest uptick in the utilization of commercial lines.
And I guess I am just a bit mystified along with a lot of other people at this point.
How we continue to see loan growth optimism about the economy etcetera etcetera without seeing anything happen in utilization of commercial lines? Can you just tell me what your conversations with your customers tell you about what seems to be a phenomenon? Nancy you are right.
I mean as we sit down with clients rate never having been this low for this long.
I think some of the basic behaviors have changed but you just described exactly what were seeing and that our deposits continue to grow.
They continue to have cash.
They are really not -- our clients are not really tapping their lines.
I think to some degree companies are going to just run with higher levels of cash going forward but it is the unique phenomenon.
E.J.
do you have a perspective? Well Chris I would agree with that.
Our clients outlook and leverage -- in the Community Bank our clients prefer to use their own.
They are generating a lot of cash in their business.
Our cash balances like in the Corporate Bank have been rising.
We had a good growth in cash balances in the -- our first quarter or so.
Our clients just dont deal like they want to take on rental leverage right now.
Their businesses are good.
They generating the cash but they just dont want to take on a lot of leverage right now.
With rates as low as they are I guess my question is sort of what are they waiting for? I mean do you think that if they became to see the prospects or more definite prospects of rates rising that maybe they are within the lines at that point or what the signal are they waiting for? I think they are still -- Nancy I think most of them are generating a fair amount of cash.
Most of them have had really improved the operating efficiency of their business.
Right.
And I think what they are waiting for is to really make that step change.
And the step change would be to invest in the brand new plan to hire lot of people or to make an acquisition.
Other than that they are really just generating enough cash that are -- frankly they dont need to tap their lines.
And Nancy I would add in my conversations with clients.
I often get asked my view of interest rates.
I would summarize it that they often say absent any sense that rates are about to make any compelling move.
It doesnt factor in.
So it creates this no particular sense of urgency to think about debt and their capital stack or how they are operating their businesses? Yeah.
But that would deck the question or whether down the roads somewhere we are going to get a surge in commercial line utilization as everybody runs for the door at the same time.
So hopefully that will happen.
But Im just -- like all other people having trouble putting all the pieces of this puzzle together and saying when things get dramatically better for the banking industry and demand? Nancy when you figure that out let us know because....
Yeah I will.
I will be charging a lot more money then by the way.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And well go to Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Don I wanted to follow up on some of the comments that you made on the non-commercial side after about 11 quarters of year-over-year growth.
It looks like this was the first quarter where we saw a decrease in Key Community Bank home equity loans.
Is that slow down a function of something happening on the demand side or did you say or is that something that you are doing and thus giving you commercial focus can you talk about your strategic commitment to home equity and your growth outlook its about 18% of your book? So just let me get a sense as we look forward does that probably go up or down or kind or stay flat? Bill this is Beth.
Ill go ahead and say a commitment as you said with our commercial focus commitment to our equity book.
I would tell you well our business model as weve talked about is a heavy commercial focus.
We are also very committed to our consumer clients in having a relative balance within our business mix is critical to our business model our performance and [Technical Difficulty] the company.
Our primary lending vehicle in our consumer arena is home equity.
It does have seasonal attributes win demand typically surfaces and kind of the fourth -- the first quarter is not a you are aware are a period where we often see seasonal demand but it is a core product.
We have grown that.
If you look over the last couple of years that has been in an area where we have invested and grown and we considered it a core product of our consumer capability.
And I would ask Dennis to add anything about what he sees as particular attribute of how it is trend over the last several quarters.
Thanks Beth.
You look across the industry and youre not seeing the growth in the home equity book.
And so give the dominant position that weve been got from a consumer leading perspective there.
You compare as just as Beth said first quarter the last year you didnt see a big pickup in that book either.
So this seasonal demand second quarter and third quarter you will see growth on the midst of a campaign from new volume perspective from an origination perspective were stronger that we have been at some time.
And so it is a core part of our business.
It has occurred again and again a core part of the relationship strategy.
This is through the branch and our focused effort of expanding relationship into our existing client base.
Thus as youve seen a heavy first-lien position there.
You see really stable credit quality within that book as well and its a core part of our offerings to our clients.
So youll see stable and just what Don had shared earlier.
Consumer loans have been stable since some offset run off in other parts of our exit portfolio as well.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Our final question will come from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Youve been conducting brand consolidation and other efficiency initiatives for last couple of years.
And youve seen some incremental decline in overall expenses because of these initiatives.
But I mean in order to really get the efficiency ratio below 60% you would need either higher rates or a broader initiative.
I mean given your footprint why not sell some of the branches and smaller footprints where you dont have scale and reinvest the proceeds either in higher yielding assets or even buyback stock? This is Don.
And Ill take the first crack at that and one is that we do believe we can get below 60s without those types of structural changes that we believe just by focusing on positive operating leverage consistent for our guidance for this year we should show revenue growth and be able to keep expenses flat and that will help drive down the overall efficiency ratio.
When you take a look at downsizing through sale of certain portions of our franchise keep in mind what you lose from that is the revenue associated with that book and only the incremental cost associated with supporting that on a direct basis.
But we do have an infrastructure here from a technology platform and other perspective that you really cant reduce proportionately for the sale of those types of branches and geographies.
We do take a look at the performance at a branch level and make sure that we are getting increased productivity from those branches in achieving the types of positive operating leverage and efficiency improvement that we would expect and think that we can get there organically without having a go-to other more strategic type of transactions.
Beth? And Kevin I would add that if you look at our business model in any given market its bigger and broader than just our retail network.
It is foundational to what we call broader market presence which would include our business banking clients our commercial middle market our private banking clients.
So in any given market we are larger in generating more revenues than just our branch presence.
And yet without the branch presence you lose critical mass with the ability to serve those clients.
It is an integrated model within the community bank and I dont think the branch density in any given market is necessarily indicative of what was a broader performance than any market would be.
What level of deposits per branch or loans per branch do you think you need in order to generate positive operating leverage off of that specific branch? What were focused on right now within the retail space Ill let Dennis comment more on this its really looking at sale per person per day.
And by focusing on that we could continue to drive up the loan balances and deposit performance at each of the branches.
Dennis would add to that.
Thats right.
The core focus on the community bank is positive operating leverage.
And so every branch you find at a different place in terms of average deposits or average loan today.
But you see two things going on.
Year-over-year if you look at any given period growth in core deposits you see that in the community bank you see growth in the balance sheet and it is best described across the community bank and across the different asset categories while the branch count continues to come down.
And so the growth you see in the balance sheet the growth you see in year-over-year fee income all occurred with 3% fewer FTE in substantially fewer branches that we had a year ago.
That plays out in the trust and investment services category in particular that you see within the community bank.
Thats a function of Key investment services.
Weve had one of the strongest quarters weve ever had as well as within the private bank.
And so its bringing to life the entire relationship to our clients in those branches is what we are looking to do.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And Ms.
Mooney Ill turn it back to you for any closing comments.
Again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our investor relations team at (216) 689-4221.
That concludes our remarks.
Again thank you and have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorps Second Quarter 2015 Earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you Operator and good morning and welcome to KeyCorps second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me for todays presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; E.J.
Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question and answer segment of our call.
Im now turning to Slide 3.
We had a good second quarter.
Our results show positive operating leverage and momentum across our company.
Revenue was up 4% from last year benefiting from strength in our core fee-based businesses and solid loan growth.
On the fee side investment banking and debt placement had a record quarter of $141 million which was up 42% from the prior year.
Stronger financial advisory fees and loan syndications drove the improvement this quarter.
We also saw good trends in trust and investment services as well as in cards and payments income.
Both businesses benefited from the investments we have made over the past few years in our people products and capabilities.
Average loans increased in both the community bank and the corporate bank and loan growth continued to be driven by commercial financial and agricultural loans which were up 10% higher than the year ago period.
In second quarter our expense levels reflect higher performance-based compensation from stronger revenue trends in the quarter as well as the cost from Pacific Crest Securities and seasonal factors.
Don will provide more detail on expenses in his remarks.
We remain focused on generating positive operating leverage by growing revenues while holding expenses relatively stable which over time will continue to drive further improvement in our efficiency ratio.
Credit quality remains strong this quarter with a net charge-off ratio of 25 basis points well below our targeted range.
We continue to be disciplined with structure and staying true to our relationship focus.
Capital remains a strength of our company with a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 10.7%.
In the second quarter our board approved a 15% increase in our common stock dividend and we repurchased $129 million in common shares.
Overall we are pleased with the quarter and believe that we are well positioned for the second half of the year.
Our results continue to demonstrate the successful execution of our business model which has allowed us to continue to add and expand client relationships and grow revenue.
Now Ill turn the call over to Don to discuss the details of our second quarter results.
Thanks and Im on Slide 5.
As Beth said we had a good quarter with net income from continuing operations of $0.27 per common share the same as the year-ago period and up from the $0.26 we reported in the first quarter.
This quarter our results were driven by poor business activity across our company which resulted in our 4% year-over-year revenue growth.
Expenses also reflect our stronger business trends with higher performance-based compensation.
Worthy of note in the second quarter of last year we benefited from a leverage lease termination gain higher principal investing gain and a lower provision for credit losses.
These items contributed $62 million more in pre-tax net income last year relative to the current quarter.
Ill provide more detail on revenue and expense trends throughout the remainder of my presentation.
Im now turning to Slide 6.
Average total loan growth continued in the second quarter with balances up $2.4 billion or 4% compared to the year-ago quarter and up $466 million from the first quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans and was broad-based across key business lending segments.
Average CF&amp;A loans were up $2.6 billion or 10% compared to the prior year and were up $696 million or 2% unannualized from the first quarter.
Continuing on to Slide 7 on the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits were up $3.8 billion from one year ago and up $1.4 billion from the first quarter.
Deposit growth of 6% from the prior year and 2% from the prior quarter was driven by strength in our commercial mortgage servicing business and inflows from both our commercial and consumer clients.
The cost of our total deposits remained low at 15 basis points compared to 18 basis points one year ago reflecting our more favorable deposit mix.
Turning to Slide 8 taxable equivalent net interest income was $591 million for the second quarter compared to $579 million in the second quarter of 2014 and $577 million in the first quarter of this year.
Net interest income was up $12 million or 2% from the year-ago quarter as higher earning asset balances were offset by lower earning asset yields.
Compared to the first quarter net interest income was up $14 million or 2% primarily as a result of earning asset growth and more days in the second quarter of this year.
Our net interest margin was 2.88% which was down 3 basis points from the prior quarter reflecting higher levels of excess liquidity driven by commercial deposit growth and lower earning asset yields.
Our net interest margin also reflects our June debt issuance which benefited our liquidity coverage ratio and credit ratings profile.
As we move into the third quarter were projecting higher levels of liquidity.
While we dont expect this to impact our net interest income we could experience some near term pressure on our margin with our third quarter outlook reflecting a mid-single digit basis point decline.
We anticipate our full-year margin will be relatively stable with the reported level of second quarter.
Our full-year net interest income guidance has not changed.
We also expect to maintain our modest asset sensitivity and the duration and characteristics of Keys loan and investment portfolios continue to position us to realize more benefit from a rise in the shorter end of the yield curve.
Slide 9 shows a summary of non-interest income which accounts for 45% of total revenue.
Non-interest income in the second quarter was $488 million up $33 million or 7% from the prior year and up $51 million or 12% from the prior quarter.
As Beth mentioned we saw strong growth in several of our fee-based businesses.
We had a record quarter for investment banking and debt placement fees with $141 million in fees an increase of $42 million or 42% from prior year.
We continue to expect full-year 2015 investment banking and debt placement fees to exceed full-year 2014.
We expect this area to be one of the key drivers of our mid-single digit growth in fee income.
Additionally trust and investment services was up 18% from the prior year driven by the acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities and the strength in our retail and private banking businesses.
Cards and payments income was up 9% from the prior year a result of growth in both our credit card and debit card products.
Our strong second quarter fee income results reflect the variability in some of our businesses that weve previously discussed like investment banking and debt placement.
Importantly our results this quarter were driven by core business activity reflecting the success of our business model and the investments we have made.
In the second quarter of last year we had a leverage lease termination gain of $17 million.
We also had higher principal investing gains in both the prior quarter and prior year.
Turning to Slide 10 our non-interest expense for the second quarter was $711 million up $24 million from the year-ago period and up $42 million from the first quarter.
Second quarter non-interest expense was 3% higher than the prior year.
Expenses continue to be well managed as growth was driven by higher performance-based compensation and the Pacific Crest acquisition.
Compared to the first quarter expenses were up 6% reflecting higher personnel costs tied to performance-based compensation and normal seasonal trends including higher salaries from increased day count higher marketing expense and lower employee benefit costs.
Additionally professional fees grew as a result of in-flight third party programs and outsourced activities.
In the second quarter our cash efficiency ratio was 65%.
Efficiency ratio remains an important measure for us and we remain committed to generating cost savings through our continuous improvement efforts which are enabling us to make investments and offset normal expense growth.
The size and timing of our business investments will impact quarterly expense levels and efficiency.
Recent investments include our third quarter 2014 Pacific Crest Securities acquisition adding bankers in both the community and corporate bank and the enhancements we have made to our payments capabilities.
We believe these investments are additive to our business model and expect to see good return as they position us to continue to drive long-term growth.
Additionally seasonality and production levels impact expense and efficiency measures from quarter to quarter.
Our expense guidance remains unchanged.
We continue to anticipate full-year expenses to be relatively stable with reported level in 2014.
Turning to Slide 11 our net charge-offs were $36 million or 25 basis points of average total loans in the second quarter which continues to be well below our targeted range.
In the second quarter provision for credit losses of $41 million was $29 million higher than the year-ago period.
Additionally this quarters provision expense exceeded net charge-offs.
Our provision and allowance reflects the most recent syndicated credit review which did not have a material impact on our overall allowance.
At June 30 2015 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.37% of period end loans and 190% coverage of our non-performing loans.
Turning to Slide 12 our common equity Tier 1 ratio was strong at June 30 at 10.7%.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $129 million in common shares in the second quarter as part of our 2015 capital plan.
We also increased our quarterly common share dividend by 15% to $0.075 per share.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitment to remaining disciplined in managing our strong capital position.
Moving on to Slide 13 as we look ahead for the remainder of 2015 we remain on track and are committed to meeting our full-year outlook.
Average loans should grow in the mid-single digit range as we benefit from strength in our commercial businesses.
Consistent with prior comments we anticipate our full-year net interest income growth in the low single digit range compared to 2014.
This does not include any benefit from higher interest rates.
We expect our full-year net interest margin to be down from 2014 and relatively stable with the second quarter of 2015 reported level.
Non-interest income is expected to be up in the mid-single digit percentage range for the year and full-year reported expenses should be relatively stable with 2014.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 to 60 basis points and we also expect provision to approximate net charge-offs.
Finally we expect to continue to execute our share repurchase authorization consistent with our capital plan.
With that Ill close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Operator? [Operator instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Scott Siefers of Sandler ONeill.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
Morning Scott.
Don I was hoping you could just walk through that margin guidance once again.
I just want to make sure I interpret it correctly.
It sounds like for the third quarter its a mid-single digit decline but is it the full year that youre expecting to come in around I guess 288 in other words stable with the 2Q number? And I guess assuming thats right what in your mind changed versus the prior? Is it just the timing of liquidity build maybe a little more a little sooner than you thought or what are the dynamics as you see them? Yes Scott you interpret that right.
We would expect the full year of 2015 to be relatively stable with the 288 we reported this quarter.
Thats down about 3 basis points from last quarter.
Our level of liquidity is higher and we also now expect it to stay with us longer than what we expected before.
So net interest income guidance hasnt changed.
We had noted before that we expected net interest income to be up low single digits without the benefit of rates and our forecast now reflects our assumption that there may be a rate increase later in the year but we shouldnt see much benefit from it.
So even when rates do go up or when rates do go up we should see lift in net interest income and margin as well.
Okay and I think that answers what would have been the second part.
I noticed you took out the distinction between NII will be up X without rates and up Y with rates so maybe you answered the second question there as well.
All right I think thats good for me.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to get a little bit of color on the business services and professional fee line again.
I know you referred to it Don in your comment about what drove it.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what drove that number higher and is that likely to stay at that level or is it going to pull back next quarter? Yes we talked about professional fees being up linked quarter - I think they were up about $9 million.
About half of that is from outsourcing activities where weve seen expense reductions in other categories and that will continue at that higher level.
The other half is what we referred to as in-flight third party programs.
Its both related to revenue initiatives as well as risk management efforts.
We do expect to see that continue into the third quarter but should drop down after that so some of that is temporary in nature but we should see it continue into the third quarter.
Okay all right.
Lastly on the efficiency ratio I know long term youd indicated youd like to target a below 60% efficiency ratio.
Can you update us on that? Do you still stand by that number and how do you get there? Currently youre at 65 66%.
How much does rate help you get there and then timing of when you could see that? Yes what weve talked about is without the benefit of rate so over the next two to three years we expect our efficiency ratio to drop to the low 60s so coming from the 65% down into the low 60s.
With the benefit of rates we would expect that to be in the high 50s.
Now where we see that occurring is basically consistent with our guidance which is that we expect to continue to be able to grow revenues and hold expenses relatively stable and thats consistent with what our guidance is for this year.
This past quarter I think sometimes its difficult to see the real picture because if you look at the comparison from second quarter of last year to second quarter of this year weve talked about revenue growth of 4.3% and if you back out those couple of items that we talked about with the leverage lease termination gain and also bag down the principal investing gains our revenue growth was close to 7.5% and expense growth at 3.5% provides the operating leverage for us to continue to drive down that efficiency ratio.
Thats consistent with how we think that well be able to achieve that is this continued maturation of the investments weve been making and seeing those translate to positive operating leverage for us going forward.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Steven Alexopoulos of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Before I ask my question Don I didnt follow your reasoning behind where you took out on the outlook slide the expected increase in net interest income including the benefit of rates.
It wasnt clear to me if you no longer expect the benefit from rates or if youre just more dovish in your own outlook for rates.
Its more the latter Steve.
We really do not expect to see much of a rate increase this year and our guidance was set at the end of last year and we felt that we would see a pick-up in the second half of the year.
We still think that there could be a rate increase but we think it could be very late in the year and have very little impact on our overall net interest income.
We do believe that when rates do go up we will see an increase in our net interest income and also our margin so its just more of an impact of our outlook would not suggest much of a rate increase this year and therefore not much of a benefit from rate increases this year.
Okay that makes sense.
Don I wanted to ask you - when we look at the investment banking fees the relatively extreme volatility thus far in 2015 is this a two quarter event or is there something else going on there that we should think about or do we just get back to a more normal trend line? I know its a volatile item but its relatively extreme if you look at the last two quarters.
Thanks.
Im going to pass that one over to Chris since hes in the room here with us as well.
Good morning Steve.
We always look at that line item on a trailing 12 basis and while we have great underlying growth if you look on a trailing 12 basis we dont get too worried about either the first quarter being down or the second quarter being significantly above where the first quarter was.
So over time we think this is a business that we continue to grow and grow significantly and we think we can do that; but we really think the right way to look at it is on a trailing 12 basis.
So Chris in your mind nothing has changed? No.
It hasnt changed.
Were out there every day talking to our clients bringing them ideas.
Our discussions with clients have frankly never been better.
Its interesting - these middle market companies and as you know we go to market in a very focused way based on industry is they think about growth and they look around at what the opportunities are for organic growth and they look around at what the opportunities are for inorganic growth.
The discussions that weve had with our clients as I said have really never been better and to the extent that were involved in M&amp;A-type discussions we think that has sort of a multiplier effect because if you can break into these clients with a strategic idea and youre hired as their advisor loans deposits hedging a lot of those things come with it.
Thanks for the color.
Steve I would just add one thing that when we talked about this line item in the first quarter we did acknowledge that it was an outlier relative to what we would consider a normal performance on any quarterly basis but did emphasize it does have quarterly variability.
But I do think we looked at the first quarter as being relatively light relative to what we think this business will generate but we do think its very important to recognize it does have characteristics that will always make it variable and the trailing 12 really does give you a better trajectory of the growth of the business which has been really solid.
The other thing that we acknowledged in the first quarter was if you looked at our loans held for sale there was a significant spike up which was an indicator that some piece of the activity was positioned to be realized in the second quarter.
Okay thanks for the color and thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Ken Zerbe at Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to dive in a little bit more in the margin compression that you expect because of the liquidity.
Can you just give us a little more detail - are you seeing meaningful or what types of commercial deposit growth that youre seeing that is driving that lower? Is it temporary? I mean do you only expect this to be for a few quarters? Im just trying to get an understanding of the underlying driver of the liquidity and if thats sustainable or not.
What were seeing is a lot of temporary deposits coming through from our commercial customers and were seeing some additional inflows which will continue to put that under pressure as being higher levels of liquidity.
So thats one of the reasons why we expected it to have some pressure in the near term as far as margin.
Keep in mind that we would have been projecting all along that we expected our loan growth to exceed deposit growth but because of the growth in these temporary deposit balances deposit growth has actually exceeded loan growth.
Our short term earning assets are up over $800 million linked quarter which puts pressure on that.
The other thing Id keep in mind is that we did have $1.7 billion debt issuance at the end of the second quarter and the full quarter impact of that will also affect the overall margin for the third quarter.
So its really those two pieces that are driving that temporary mid-single digit reduction in net interest margin.
Got it.
Are you actually able to make any meaningful amount of money on those temporary deposits or is it really just a wash from an NII perspective? It really is close to a wash.
We put it in our fed account and earn about 25 basis points on it so far from meaningful but it is additive.
Great.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Don on the loan side you saw pretty good growth on the commercial and as important we finally saw those yields go up.
Im wondering if you could give us any color in terms of has there been a change in either the type of production youre seeing or the competitive and spreads angle and if this is kind of a good inflection that were finally seeing on the yield side.
On the yield side weve benefited this quarter from a couple of things.
One is that loan fees were stronger in the second quarter than they were in the first quarter and also we had some additional increase in contribution from our swap income.
From an accounting perspective that gets mapped up against commercial loans because we use that to hedge the LIBOR-base loans.
So if you back that out were still seeing a little bit of pressure but its muted compared to where it has been as far as the incremental quarter over quarter.
So Id say we havent seen the market change significantly but to your point I think were getting to a level closer to stability than where we have been in the past couple of years.
Okay got it.
Great.
Then secondly just as far as the expenses are concerned you talked about adding a little bit more of the restructuring-related expenses.
Are you still on track for about 30 for the year or is there any change in the trajectory of how youre expecting to spend underneath the normal cost base? Yes for the first six months of this year weve incurred about $17 million.
Id say that were still on the same general course as to where we had expected coming into the year.
Keep in mind that in the first half of this year we only had five branch consolidations.
Weve talked about a number of 20 to 30%--excuse me 2 to 3%.
Twenty to 30% would be way out of line! But 2 to 3% consolidation for this year which would imply plus or minus an additional 20 branches of consolidation in the second half of the year.
So with that we still expect to be in that same general range.
Okay and just as a follow-up on expenses then too you did have Im assuming some of the personnel step-up was related to the really strong IB line.
Do you anticipate there being a reversion of some of that if in fact the IB was a little peak-y per Beths point about some of the lingering stuff from the first quarter that kind of got pushed into the second? Great question and I would say that that is a variable line item in our income statement and it does reflect the production that we do have.
If you look at our total compensation expense it really had three impacts this current quarter.
One was our benefit cost did come down and its seasonally consistent with what weve seen in the past.
Salary dollars were up about $10 million and if you take a look at that about half of it is because of day count.
We had two more days in the current quarter than what we did in the last quarter from a business perspective and we also had our merit increase which was about 2% year-over-year.
The last piece is increase in incentive compensation which was up $26 million and between the first quarter and the second quarter we had $3 million to $5 million of impact from accruals adjustments and true-ups from quarter to quarter.
So really the core increase was closer to the $22 million range so if you look at that as a variable component to the growth that we would have seen in our corporate banking activities it gives you a ballpark of what kind of variability there might be prospectively.
Keep in mind its not just investment banking income though.
It also includes the other areas of revenues because Chris corporate bank is truly focused on relationships and that includes both balance sheet and fee income as part of the calculation of the value that theyre contributing and thats what the incentives are based on as well.
Okay thanks Don.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Matt OConnor at Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
This is Rob Placet on behalf of Matt.
On a period end basis it looks like you added to the securities portfolio this quarter.
I was curious if you could just update us on your thinking in terms of deployment of liquidity in the current environment beyond the liquidity builds on the commercial deposits you highlighted earlier and should we expect continued growth in your securities book from here? The billion dollar growth period to period really was driven by the $1.7 billion debt issuance that we had during the quarter and that occurred in June as far as when it closed.
So thats really what drove it more so than any planned additions that we would expect generally going forward the investment securities portfolio would remain relatively stable.
Were comfortable with that assumption given that our LCR estimate for the second quarter was just north of 100% so we think that were well positioned going into next year where the requirement is at 90%.
Okay.
Secondly commercial loan yields were up 5 BPs I think this quarter.
Was curious what drove the increase there.
The two components that really drove that was that we saw some stronger loan fees in the current quarter compared to the first quarter and we also saw an increased benefit from our swap book that some of the swaps rolled off and we had some reinvestment or rebooking of new swaps and then they came through with a higher yield.
So both of those helped benefit the commercial loan yields on a linked quarter basis.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Don I had a follow up on your comments about the growth in temporary deposits.
I was hoping that you could comment on the overall quality of the deposit growth that youre seeing from an LCR perspective.
I was curious - now that weve seen some larger banks take on initiatives to focus on operating deposits whether youve seen any kind of change in the quality of the deposits that are coming your way.
Were still seeing growth in our core operating accounts.
Weve talked about the overall payments area being a key strategic initiative for us and thats helping us drive for deeper relationships and enhancing that management of liquidity for our customers.
So we are seeing that growth come through.
Id say that the growth that I was talking about was isolated to a handful of accounts where were seeing some funds come into our customers that need to have a temporary home for.
Its not an indication of lack of quality of not picking up additional operating accounts but we view that as more of a temporary impact.
Chris do you have anything else youd add? Yes.
Don the only thing I would add to that is our third party commercial loan servicing business is really a good engine for us to grow quality deposits.
If you look at that business our deposits total about $6.4 billion and thats up 15% on a linked quarter and 63% on a year-over-year basis so thats one of the vehicles that were focusing on Bill under the new construct to really grow quality receivables.
Okay so you havent seen any notable increase in the amount of non-operating deposits coming your way post-some of the initiatives that the larger banks have undertaken to de-emphasize those? No we have not.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go to the line of David Eads with UBS.
Hello.
Thanks for taking the call.
A couple of the banks that weve reported weve heard some discussion about middle market C&amp;I looking especially competitive and Im just curious if you guys have seen any shifting in the competitive environment there on the middle market side.
Sure David this is Chris.
Let me start and then Ill have E.J.
Burke address it from the community bank side as well.
There is no question that there are a lot of competitors in the middle market if you think about the very large banks the regional banks the smaller banks the non-banks the variety of institutional investors so we are seeing a lot of competition in the area.
One of the ways though that we compete as a company is the fact that loans are just a piece of what we offer people so it really gives us the opportunity to really differentiate ourselves.
It is competitive.
There still are good loans to be had but one of the advantages that we have of course is that working together both the corporate bank and the community bank we can tap into various pools of capital as agent as opposed to principal.
So as we look back over the first say half of the year we only put about 18% of the capital that we raised onto our balance sheet so thats just another way that we have another that I think is really differentiated from a lot of our competitive set.
E.J.? Yes Chris I would echo most of what you said but I would also add to that that in terms of our strategy because we have a lot of products and we focus on relationship we dont get as wound up around pricing as we do around structure and maintaining credit discipline.
So if we believe we have a client who wants a broad relationship and the credit metrics look good for us we know that over time we can generate a profitable relationship even if we are pressured a bit on the loan pricing.
Just to reinforce a little bit of what Chris said in our community bank we focus primarily on commercial clients call it $50 million in sales up to $250 million in sales.
When we can bring a good capital markets idea to a client in that size range it clearly makes Key look a little different than the typical community bank that were competing against and that is a competitive advantage that we drive consistently across the franchise.
Great.
Thanks for that.
I think last quarter you guys talked about creating an initiative to and some incentives to grow the HELOC business a little bit through the summer.
It looks like loan balances were pretty much dead flat sequentially.
Just curious if you had any update on how thats going.
This is Dennis Devine in the Community Bank.
Youve seen the earnings release - modest increases in the core consumer loan portfolio offset by some runoff in the exits.
The consumer loan book is largely shaped at Key by our home equity portfolio.
Were not in a lot of other consumer loan categories that you might see indirect auto for example.
So sales and new relationship numbers were solid in the second quarter.
You actually see ending balances up slightly versus the first quarter.
You also see growth in other consumer categories where we compete - credit card and some other direct lending.
Those are just small relative to the HELOC book.
So you see it across the industry - home equity portfolio pay downs are occurring.
Theres not as much growth in that category so at Key weve got a stable high quality book with a bit of growth in the second quarter but--in fact a bit fast within the industry but very consistent with what youre seeing across the rest of the industry.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Bob Ramsey at FBR.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to be sure that Im thinking about the expense outlook in the right way.
I know you guys said that for the full year you expect something in the same ballpark and I guess that implies that in the back half this year the quarterly run rate actually should be lower than either of the first two quarters.
Obviously I get theres some variability around the incentive comp but otherwise is that the right way to think about it? Yes what weve talked about for the entire year is that we expect expenses to be relatively stable and in that we say that that could mean plus or minus 2%.
So if you use that as a guidance and take a look at the second half of the year that would imply a quarterly expense run rate of between $665 million and $715 million of expense.
Now again thats equal to the first quarter and equal to the second quarter as far as the high and the low in that range so we would expect to be within that overall guidance range and some of that is variable based on the level of growth that we see throughout the portfolio.
Okay thats helpful.
Thank you.
Then one other question around the net interest income outlook.
I know you all have sort of said that youre pushing out and expecting less of a rate increase this year just given where we are today.
Im curious if you could tell us how Key is impacted by maybe that first rate increase whenever it does happen.
Is there much lift from a 25 basis point move or to what extent do floors kind of limit the initial move? We dont have a huge impact from floors so that really doesnt limit it a whole lot; but just in a 25 basis point move that doesnt drive a lot of incremental net interest income.
Our balance sheet is positioned so that we do benefit when we do see that shorter end of the curve move up but I would think of it more proportionate to what weve talked about as far as a 200 basis point increase would have about a 3% lift in net interest income so the first 25 basis points would drive about an eighth of that.
So again its helpful but just doesnt move the dial a lot.
Okay thats helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning Don good morning Beth.
Question for you - you guys have had good success in the credit cards in the revenues generating that fee revenue from payments and such.
Don you talked about there was good growth in the usage of the credit card and debit card products.
Can you share with us any more color on how youre getting that growth; and second as part of that though I know your net charge-offs nominally are very small in this area for credit cards the net charge-off ratio though is quite a bit above the trust data that just came out yesterday - its less than 2.5% and you guys are well over 3%.
Is there any potential of improvement in that credit card charge-off number as we go forward as well? This is Dennis Devine.
Ill start and hand it to Don.
The growth in the card line is coming from the focus and the investments that youve seen us speak to around as we brought that product in and as a core part of our relationship strategy its center to how we look to grow with our clients around all aspects of payments.
So you see in growth in cards and payments in the community bank - 13% year-over-year thats driven by credit card thats driven by debit card just a substantial number of additional cards in our clients hands.
Even as weve seen declines in spending in some categories the volume of activity with our client base is strong and its growing.
On the charge-off side you see the continuing decline in the charge-offs since we brought that portfolio back in.
We feel really good about the quality of originations that are occurring so you see that in the strength of consumer credit line items.
No doubt we feel good about the quality of the new originations as they grow and the quality of the credit that you see there.
Dennis stole my thunder there but I would just say that those charge-offs really are related to the portfolio that we did acquire.
It was a legacy portfolio and as we add new relationships we should see the overall credit quality picture continue to improve.
Have you guys seen any pick-up in competition? Some of the bigger credit card companies - Im thinking Citigroup in particular it seemed to have now been reinvigorated to try to grow their portfolios.
Have you guys seen any of that impact on what youre trying to do with your portfolio? We have a very different model.
Its not really targeting those national cards and what were really focused on is deepening the relationship with our existing retail customers so we havent seen that have a big impact on us.
We do value the relationships and our customers do benefit from that expanded relationship so well continue to drive that model.
My final question - maybe Beth you can handle this one.
Youve talked in the past about looking at the residential mortgage business possibly changing the way you have it structured today.
Where is your thinking on what you guys may want to do with that business as you go forward? Gerard it is true that we have looked at what has been our traditional model has been an outsourced model and we are in the process of--we have hired a new president for a mortgage business at Key which will be a product that we will offer to our clients.
We dont view it as a standalone business but yet an important relationship product that our clients value.
We are in the process of undertaking the ability to stand up the ability to offer mortgages directly and have them be originated through Key so that is an important strategic initiative for us and we are already investing in some of those capabilities.
We expect to be in a position to underwrite and offer mortgages in 2016 directly.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Hello there.
Thank you for taking the question.
Id like to ask a couple of things on credit.
Could you just explain the uptick in the provisions especially in the context of most of the credit indicators appearing to look pretty good? Hi this is Bill Hartmann.
You kind of trailed off at the end but it sounded like you were asking about the uptick in provision? Yes most of the credit indicators seemed to show a bit of an improvement so I guess I was curious on why the provisions were higher this quarter.
Sure.
So where we have been operating over the last several quarters is really kind of at a low point in the cycle if you will around charge-offs non-performing loans et cetera.
So small numbers tend to move things around a little bit so the increase in provision reflects our focus on really having provision kind of equal net charge-offs and then weve had some movement in various sectors of the portfolio broad-based that are really reflected in the provision.
We continue to see it operating at a very low level though.
And then the criticized assets were up again this quarter.
Can you give a bit of detail on what was behind the increase? Yes the increase in the criticized was across primarily our corporate and community bank so commercial portfolios and its very broad-based.
It does reflect the results of the shared national credit exam but that was a small part of what was actually contained in it.
We see no particular concentrations in the additions.
Youll also notice that were not being impacted in our non-performing loans or our delinquencies.
Those continue to improve.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Beth my question for you is particularly given your concentration in retail deposits theres been a lot of talk so far this earning season on what deposit betas are going to be in a rising rate environment with some banks saying theyll be much higher because regulation has essentially made retail deposits more precious and others saying they might not be as bad because were coming from zero.
Im wondering what your thoughts are on this topic.
Erika this is Don.
Ill take a first crack at that.
I would say near term that we think it would probably play out consistent with what we saw in the last rate increase which is about a 55% beta.
But I think youre exactly right that long term those consumer deposits are going to be much more valuable and I think were going to see increased competition for those consumer deposits and therefore we think the beta will be at a little bit higher level than what we had seen historically.
Now helping to offset that a little bit is that banks balance sheets are much better positioned today than they were during the last cycle so you have a much lower loan to deposit ratio today than when we did back in the early 2000s.
The second thing is that money market mutual funds should not be quite as competitive as what they once were because of the break of the buck type of situation does cause some of the treasurers of our customers to reassess whether or not they want to have a bank deposit or a money market mutual fund deposit.
Erika I would add that it is interesting because we have been in such an extended low interest rate environment that the competitive dynamics of how the industry will respond is a chapter that is yet to be written.
I would echo what Don said that that is our sentiment that maybe the first couple rate moves will correlate deposit betas in the past and then it will be a function of I think general liquidity within the industry to see if it intensifies competition.
But one other thing I would tell you though is also the mix of our deposit base is far stronger than it has ever been as over the last several years our strategies have been to drive core retail and commercial deposit accounts and a less rate-sensitive mix of business than weve ever had and more core transactional accounts so we also feel well positioned that our relationship strategy has given us a nice deposit base for the upcoming rate increases when and if they occur.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well go next to the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Hi.
Just a clarification and then my main question.
Your cash efficiency ratio remained at 65.1% in the second quarter same as the first quarter worse than the fourth quarter.
So with all the guidance that youve given on this call or direction do you expect that 65.1% number to go lower in the second half of the year? What weve talked about Mike is driving that down through the next two to three years in the low 60s and I would say that over the second half of this year while we continue to expect to drive positive operating leverage I dont think youre going to see a material change in the overall efficiency ratio mainly driven by some of the additional costs we talked about as far as having additional branch consolidations in the third and fourth quarter which will put some pressure on seeing that further improvement.
Okay so when people call me up this morning and say wow that efficiency ratio doesnt look very good the mitigating factors would be what? Mike I would say that I continue and we continue to be confident that we are on the path to reduce our efficiency ratio.
It is a very important measure to us and what I see is the combination of two things both in terms of revenue as well as expense.
I do believe as Don indicated that expenses have been well controlled and we continue to invest in our businesses.
So some piece of this is we are driving revenue we are driving positive operating leverage and many of those investments are not yet mature so I continue to see the momentum in our core businesses as being a company that will be able to grow revenue and Don did a little of the math about the year-over-year if you back out lease termination gains and some other things could be at 7% revenue growth so I think thats an incredibly important focus for us always coupled with expense discipline.
We had some things in this quarter that we have outlined that created that top line number around $711 million in expenses but underneath it all we have really reduced the core operating expenses of this company and continue to have levers and discipline to do that.
So I see us on the path to move into the low 60s without the benefit of rates and Im confident that we are doing the right things to drive our business grow our business as well as create a more efficient company.
Well since youre investing for growth on the revenue side then it seems like capital markets is the biggest delta.
If we could just get some more color - a what does your capital markets backlog look like at the end of the second quarter; and b can you give us more color we get one line item investment banking and debt placement fees so $141 million in the second quarter and now thats 29% of your fee revenues.
Can you just give us more of a breakdown some of the parts that are moving within that line item? Sure Mike its Chris.
Good morning.
A couple things - with respect to our backlog our backlogs are strong.
Obviously its all market dependent but as I mentioned earlier in the call were out there having quality discussions with clients and prospects and they have a bias for action right now as they think about how to grow their business.
So we feel pretty good about where the business is positioned.
A big part of that are the investments that weve made and if you think about it of our most senior calling people weve grown that universe that sales force by 36% since mid-2013.
We also as Beth and Don both mentioned earlier have invested in our payments business which augments not our investment banking and debt placement lines but it augments our entire business and its kind of the holistic approach to how we go to the market.
Now specifically some areas that were particularly good we were up across the board but some areas were in the equity business both real estate and technology had a good quarter.
In the M&amp;A business both industrial and technology had a good quarter so when we think about our business we first go to which of our seven industry verticals is it and thats kind of how we look at the business.
And just lastly any more breakdown you can give us on your investment banking and debt placement fees? If we were to break it down between I dont know underwriting equity underwriting mergers FIC trading and equity trading any even rough sizing? We do not in fact break it out Mike but it is a fairly balanced approach because our whole strategy is go out to our clients and really figure out what is most advantageous for them at any particular time.
As Im looking at these numbers there is growth in all categories and its pretty well balanced.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go to the line of Kevin Barker at Compass Point.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I just wanted to go over the use of your commercial swap portfolio and some of the comments you made in past quarters.
I know youve mentioned that you always have some type of swap portfolio in place but could you talk about if we do see some rise in rates how much of that do you expect to continue to hold or do you feel like youd be more aggressive with letting the swap portfolio mature in a rising rate environment? What weve talked about before is without the use of our swap book that we have had about an 8% asset sensitive balance sheet.
So we try to use the swap to help minimize that over time that each time that we meet as a team to assess where we are from a rate sensitivity perspective we evaluate how we want to be positioned what were seeing from the forward curve and whether or not we need to make adjustments to that.
But I do not want to give the impression that we would ever take that swap book to zero or that we would double it and take significant rate bets but that we use that position us to lean in heavier one way or the other as to what our outlook would be.
So right now we continue to be asset sensitive and were very comfortable with that and well continue to reassess that each time we take a look at this which is at least on a monthly basis.
Do you see it as a risk-reward regarding the potential returns on the swaps or it something along the lines of were changing our outlook on the rate environment? What we do is we use this as more of a way to position the overall balance sheet to benefit from rate increases or changes so it truly is a hedge book because we dont want to be overly asset sensitive.
It allows us to manage on the margin as to whether we want to be slightly asset sensitive or slightly liability sensitive.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Speakers at this time we have no further questions in queue.
I will now turn it back over to Ms.
Mooney for closing remarks.
Thank you Operator.
Again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team at 216-689-4221.
That concludes our remarks.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorps Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorps third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me for todays presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer; and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; E.J.
Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Im now turning to Slide 3.
We had another good quarter with earnings per share of $0.26 which was up $0.03 versus the year ago period.
The $0.26 per share compares to $0.27 in the second quarter which did not include the $19 million or $0.01 per share of cost related to the pension charge that was incurred in the quarter.
We generated positive operating leverage relative to the same quarter last year driven by a 7% increase in revenue along with well-managed expenses.
Revenue reflects growth in new and expanded relationships across our company which drive both net interest income as well as our fee-based businesses.
We had another solid quarter of loan growth with average balances up 6% from the prior year driven by a 15% increase in commercial financial and agricultural loans.
Loan balances increased in both the Community Bank and the Corporate Bank.
On the fee side we saw positive momentum in our core businesses including investment banking and debt placement fees corporate services income and cards and payments.
Results relative to the prior quarter reflect higher net interest income and lower investment banking and debt placement revenue.
Investment banking and debt placement fees are variable in nature and were solid this quarter however lower than our record second quarter results.
Expenses excluding the pension settlement charge were also lower than the previous quarter.
Credit quality continues to be strong with a net charge-off ratio of 27 basis points well below our targeted range.
Nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets moved lower in the quarter.
We continue to execute on our relationship strategy and to be disciplined with credit structure and terms.
Capital remains a strength of our company with a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 10.5%.
In the third quarter we repurchased $123 million of common stock.
Overall we are pleased with the quarter and believe that we are positioned for a good finish to the year.
Our results continue to demonstrate the successful execution of our business model which has allowed us to continue to add and expand client relationships and to grow revenue.
Now Ill turn the call over to Don to discuss the details of our third quarter.
Don? Thanks and Im on Slide 5.
As Beth said we had a good quarter with net income from continuing operations of $0.26 per common share up $0.03 from a year-ago period and at the same level as last quarter after adjusting for the pension settlement charge.
Our cash efficiency ratio for the quarter was 66.9% or 65.2% adjusting for the pension expense.
Not on this slide but worth noting our pre-provision net revenue is up over 17% from last year and up 8% year to date.
This improvement reflects our success in growing our business while staying focused on expenses.
Ill cover the other line items in the rest of my presentation so Im now turning to Slide 6.
We saw solid loan growth this quarter with average loan balances up $3.5 billion or 6% compared to the year-ago quarter and up $1.3 billion from the second quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans and was broad-based across Keys business lending segments.
Average CF&amp;A loans were up $3.9 billion or 15% compared to the prior year and were up $1.4 billion or 5% unannualized from the second quarter.
Continuing on to Slide 7 on the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding deposits in foreign office totaled $70 billion for the third quarter an increase of $2.2 billion compared to the year ago quarter.
The increase came from higher balances from our commercial mortgage servicing business and inflows from commercial and consumer clients.
These increases were partially offset by a decline in certificates of deposit.
Compared to the second quarter of 2015 average deposits excluding deposits in foreign office decreased by $278 million.
The decrease was driven by an expected decline in short term non-interest-bearing deposit balances from commercial clients as well as lowered certificates of deposit balances.
This decline was partially offset by increases in NOW and money market deposit accounts.
Turning to Slide 8 taxable-equivalent net interest income was $598 million for the third quarter of 2015 and the net interest margin was 2.87%.
These results compared to taxable-equivalent net interest income of $581 million and a net interest margin of 2.96% for the third quarter of last year.
The increase in net interest income reflects higher earning asset balances moderated by lower earning asset yields which also drove the decline in net interest margin.
Compared to the second quarter of 2015 taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by $7 million and the net interest margin was essentially unchanged.
The increase in net interest income and the relatively stable net interest margin were primarily attributable to improvement in earning asset mix partly offset by a slightly lower earning asset yield and loan fees.
One additional day in the third quarter also contributed to the increase in net interest income.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter is net interest margin to remain relatively stable with the third quarter level.
Slide 9 shows a summary of non-interest income which accounted for 44% of our total revenue.
Non-interest income in the third quarter was $470 million up $53 million or 13% from the prior year and down $18 million or 4% from the prior quarter.
The increase from the prior year was attributable to the strength in Keys core fee-based businesses which included a full quarter impact of the September 2014 acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities.
The improvement in our core businesses from the prior year included $21 million of higher investment banking debt placement fees an increase of $15 million in corporate services income and $9 million of higher trust and investment services income.
Cards and payments income was also up due to higher credit card and merchant fees.
Compared to last quarter non-interest income declined by $18 million due to the decline in investment banking debt placement fees related to our record second quarter levels.
We expect to meet our full year guidance of mid-single digit growth in non-interest income.
The largest contributor this year has been the investment banking and debt placement fees.
Fourth quarter is historically a strong quarter for this business and once again based on the current pipelines and market conditions we expect a strong finish to the year.
Turning to Slide 10 non-interest expense for the third quarter was $724 million up $18 million from the year ago period and up $13 million from the second quarter.
Personnel costs increased $21 million year over year reflecting our investment in senior bankers across the company higher performance based compensation related to our strong capital markets businesses and a full quarter impact of the September 2014 acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities.
Non-personal expenses remain relatively stable as lower occupancy costs offset an increase in business services and professional fees.
Compared to the second quarter non-interest expense increased by $13 million.
This increase included a $19 million pension settlement charge $7 million increase in salaries reflecting the increased number of business days offset by $6 million of lower occupancy cost and $6 million of lower incentive and stock compensation related to the lower capital markets revenues.
Our expense guidance for the year remains unchanged.
Reflecting our current quarter pension charge we would expect to come in towards the higher end of a relatively stable range which is defined as plus or minus 2%.
For the fourth quarter I would expect expenses to be roughly in line with the third quarter excluding the pension charge.
Turning to Slide 11 net charge-offs were $41 million or 27 basis points of average total loans in the third quarter which continues to be well below our target range.
In the third quarter provision for credit losses of $45 million slightly above the level of net charge-offs which reflects the current trends in our portfolio in our continued loan growth.
Non-performing loans and non-performing assets were both down relative to the prior quarter and year ago period and criticized loans have been relatively stable.
At September 30 our reserve for loan losses represented 1.31% of period end loans and a 198% coverage of our non-performing loans.
Turning to Slide 12 our common equity Tier 1 ratio was strong at September 30 at 10.51%.
As Beth mentioned we repurchased $123 million in common shares in the third quarter as part of our 2015 capital plan.
Importantly our capital plans reflect our commitment to remaining disciplined and managing our strong capital position.
Moving on to Slide 13 we expect to be within our guidance ranges we have provided for 2015.
Average loans should grow in the mid single digit range as we benefit from the strength in our commercial businesses.
We expect full-year net interest income growth in the low single digit range which does not anticipate any increase in interest rates.
Non-interest income should be in line with our outlook for mid-single digit growth.
Non-interest expense will likely be toward the higher end of our guidance range reflecting the pension settlement charge this quarter.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 basis points to 60 basis points.
We also expect provision to approximate net charge-offs.
And finally we expect to continue to execute on our share repurchase authorization consistent with our capital plan.
With that Ill close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] First we go to the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Looking at the $725 million of approved buybacks in the 2015 capital plan if I annualize what you guys have done over the last two quarters it looks like youre buying back at a level thats about $100 million less than what you could be buying back if you look at the full cycle.
So Don are we expecting a ramp in buybacks in the coming quarters or is there something else going on here that we should be paying attention to? The one thing thats not clear from that is is that each year in the first quarter we have shares that are issued in connection with employee benefit plans and that allow us to buyback additional shares.
And so we have a heightened level of share buybacks in that first quarter of each year.
And keep in mind that the $725 million will represent five quarters as opposed to just the four quarters.
And if I can ask one unrelated follow-up Don you guys are obviously an asset sensitive bank.
If the Fed does not move rates this year and it looks like low for longer is here to stay would you guys take action to reduce asset sensitivity convert some potential earnings into real earning or do you just maintain this position no matter how long the Fed sits at zero? We take a look at that frequently throughout the year and try to reassess whats the appropriate position for us.
In the past and weve called this wrong we continue to expect that interest rates would be going up say 12 months down the road and we havent seen that yet.
And so well continue to reassess and we have the flexibility to manage that overall rate risk position fairly quickly with the change in interest rate swap position.
Our next question is from Scott Siefers with Sandler ONeill.
Don just a couple of quick questions on expenses.
First I want be make sure Im clear on the fourth quarter guidance.
So are we done with the pension settlement charges for the year or will there be more in the fourth quarter? And then sort of a follow-on on cost broadly is its going to come in within your range but towards the higher end.
I wonder if you could just talk about the nuance of that is some of the pressure if we were to ex out the pension noise is that coming from the investment banking revenue base just coming in stronger than you might have expected it at the beginning of the year? In other words whats behind the overall expense level in your mind? As far as the pension charge last year in the fourth quarter we had about a $3 million charge related to the pension settlement and so we would expect a nominal level again here in the fourth quarter but that should not be nearly the size of the $19 million we experienced this quarter.
As far as our guidance range we have said it's been relatively stable.
And so if you back out the pension charge were up about 1% year over year which I think is relatively stable.
And to your point we have seen some pretty strong investment banking fees and our expense model is fairly variable to reflect the impact of those revenues.
With the pension charge and with an outlook for the fourth quarter to be consistent with the third quarter level we still think that were going to be in that plus or minus 2% even though it'd be toward the higher end of that range.
If I could switch gears really quick and maybe if Chris is on the line if he could just speak in a bit more of a detail on the investment banking pipeline it sounds like you guys are still pretty pleased even in spite the strength youve had year to date just wondered if you can just give a little more color behind it.
And then maybe to the extent that you can sort of square expectations for a strong finish for the year with just some of the broader dislocation we are seeing in the capital markets? Sure Scott.
Id be happy to.
So as we look at our pipelines we would characterize our pipelines as being strong.
The other thing that is interesting is our pipelines although we don't report by segment our pipelines in our M&amp;A business are up and as we talked about before those revenues have a tendency to pull through other revenues so that's another reason that we feel good about our pipeline.
The other thing that weve said before about our business model that I think is really important is when there is a little bit of dislocation in the market we feel like that's a great opportunity for us because there are certain shops that are focused on one product the ability to go to one market.
And as we think about serving our clients and we can look broadly across markets we think when there is a little dislocation and everything isn't flashy and green that's a nice opportunity for us to really come in and serve our clients.
Our next question is from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
On the loan growth on the C&amp;I side just wanted to see if you can give us a little bit more granularity on the drivers because it was exceptionally strong this quarter and then also just how do you think about that going into fourth quarter and into 2016 to stay at that pace? So a couple of things.
We spend a lot of time looking at where the growth is coming from.
Interestingly as we look back in the corporate bank its a $3 billion of growth that weve had year over year about 80% of that has come from new clients.
So our model is resonating were out there we captured on a year to date basis a significant number of new clients specifically 587 new clients and as we look at our model thats where most of the growth is coming from.
The other thing thats interesting about our model is in spite of the fact that were getting a lot of the loan growth only in in this quarter only about 13% of the total capital that we raised actually went on to our balance sheet.
So we feel a couple of things.
One were doing a good job in terms of growing share and secondly we have the ability to be selective and to go to the right market in terms of growing our balance sheet.
On the Community Bank side we have achieved a lot of loan growth simply because we have more bankers than we did at this point last year.
We have made a significant investment in commercial bankers putting more feet on the street and were starting to see dividends coming from those investments.
E.J.
thats very good and in both the corporate and community bank weve increased our senior bankers by over 10% and I think weve had a little more than 60 people across the company in this area and its been an area of focus and we have seen very good returns on those new hires as well.
And then lastly on the expense side again I appreciate the guidance that you have given there in terms of growth but help us just think about how we can look at the efficiency ratio? In the [66%] range here I know you have provided a low 60%s expectation previously where can we get to in this lower for longer rate environment and how long can it take to see it reach the low 60%s range? Great question and you are right that we've seen the efficiency ratio holding there around 65% for the last few quarters.
I would say that's really reflecting a couple of things.
One is that this years earnings stream is much more core in nature we haven't had as much in the way of principal investing gains and leverage lease termination gains like we had last year.
And so this year's growth is coming from new customer acquisition and customer related fee income.
Second as we talked before we are making a number of investments and so we are cutting cost to be able to afford the new investments.
And one of the areas we just mentioned with the addition of 60 new senior bankers throughout the franchise and those investments are fairly immature.
And so as they mature we will start to see that translate to efficiency ratio improvement over time.
Keep in mind too that's just one measure for us.
If you look at our positive operating leverage we've achieved for the first nine months of this year it's a 2% positive operating leverage.
So our revenue growth exceeds our expense growth by 2%.
If I just look at our peer banks which is 12 banks through June 30 we don't have one bank that has higher than a positive operating leverage of 2%.
And so we think that we are doing a good job of managing the bottom line from that perspective and growing our core.
We still think over the next couple of years we can drive that efficiency ratio from the 65% level down in the lower 60%s.
And hopefully if rates do ever come through that can help us go back down into the 50%s as well.
But I think what you're going to need to see is more maturity of some of the investments we are making and have that translate to improvements in the overall efficiency going forward.
So you can get to the low 60%s barring anything out of the Fed? That's correct.
And next well go to Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Don can you put the  I wanted to revisit the pension settlement charges again.
Could you put in context for us how much more there is to go in terms of future charges to future periods? Essentially what happens here is that based on the accounting rules that we have a threshold established based on the interest rate component of our pension expense.
And so with rates being so low that hurdle for this year was $32 million of lump-sum distribution.
And as soon as we go over that it triggers a settlement loss.
And so if rates remain at this low level for a long period of time there is risk that we can continue to see that in the third or fourth quarter of subsequent years.
But at this point in time it's difficult for us to predict when that would occur and how.
Looking at your 10-K at the end of last year it looked like the pension plan was under funded by about $250 million.
Does that suggest you'd in theory have $250 million in charges if the plan participants elected to receive their benefits in a lump-sum? Is that effectively how that works? And it's not being done all up front now so it's happening slowly over time.
I'm just trying to think through of trying to just isolate what the magnitude of the impact could be? You're right there is exposure there but what will have to happen is each of those participants would have to retire and then each of them will have to have a lump-sum distribution otherwise you could see that $250 million being recognized over a 30 plus year time period.
So difficult to predict exactly what people will select and the timing of that recognition.
I would just add that it is as Don accurately point out a function of the interest rate environment.
If you also look at our STE line this charge has been triggered for the last couple of years related to our significant repositioning of our workforce which we have brought down over the last several years.
And we have as you've heard we've been adding to client facing and senior bankers but overall we've been bringing down our headcount.
So that remixing and reduction in headcount is also triggering the opportunity for people to make those elections as they exit.
So it really takes both of them to happen in order for us to incur a charge.
If I may finally one question on funding Don your loan growth as you've discussed looks quite solid and nothing seems to be getting in the way of that from what we can see this quarter.
We did see that your loan growth outpaced your deposit growth and that's also consistent with what we started to see at the HA level.
So an initial look at your loan to deposit ratio suggests that you guys have some room for that to continue while still remaining core funded.
But we now also have to think about LCR when we think about that loan to deposit ratio.
Can you discuss A how you think about the remaining core funded in the context of the loan to deposit ratio and how LCR fits in and B discuss whether the fact that loan growth is now outpacing deposit growth is having an impact on how you're managing the business? As far as our loan growth exceeding deposit growth we've been talking about that for a period of time because we expect that to be an area that help us see a little bit more stable net interest margin and you are right that we are still below where we would target as far as our loan to deposit ratio long term.
And so I think that is an area that we can continue to manage up.
If you look at the LCR and at the end of the third quarter we were north of 100%.
So our requirement is to be at 90% plus range in the first quarter of next year.
So we think that we are well positioned from that perspective.
And I also like to note that in the third quarter we did see some of the more short-term focused deposits leave the bank and that will put some additional pressure on a linked quarter basis as far as the deposits being down slightly compared to the second quarter.
Our next question is from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
First question just on provision expense.
I totally get the charge-offs are going to stay below your guidance and there's a lot of room underneath that 40 basis points to 60 basis points.
But when I look at provision expenses ticked up I think six quarters in a row.
Still very very low so I'm not implying any credit problems.
But when we think about the go-forward over the next year given the loan growth given the reserve ratios trended basically remains pretty low and continues to decline are we at a point where we should expect going from say a 27 base point charge-off and hence a similar provision to something up closer to the 40 basis points to 60 basis points? I'm just trying to get a sense does provision continue to tick up from here? Ken Ill take a first crack at that and then ask Bill Hartmann to chip in as well.
If you look at the charge-offs the change over the last four quarters really has been in the level of recovery the actual gross charge-offs are pretty flat over the last five or six quarters.
And so we haven't seen much change from that.
The recoveries are down primarily in the commercial category and that just reflects that we haven't been replenishing the inventory which is good as far as problem assets [indiscernible] and therefore don't have the higher level of recoveries.
And so we think that we are getting closer to more of a stable level of recovery.
But to your point we are still well below that 40 basis point to 60 basis point range we would expect to continue to be under that for a period of time that we have seen some increases in charge-offs reflecting the lower level of recoveries.
So Bill anything else you would add to that? The one thing I would add to that is if you look at what could be leading indicators of where we think things are going our level of non-performing loans has been pretty stable.
We've been signaling that we are entering a period of stability where the improvements that we've seen in previous quarters were going to begin to level out.
And again the numbers are pretty small so quarter to quarter we might see a small increase or decrease in some of these levels.
And again we had signaled that we thought that provisions and net charge-offs should be about equal to each other as we enter this period of stability and any change in provision may be more driven by loan growth which is what we saw in this quarter.
And then the other question I just had in terms of loan growth obviously C&amp;I is incredibly strong and if I heard right a lot of it's because you're hiring bankers.
But when you look at something like say Fifth Third or Huntington and compare to where you guys stand it appears that you are taking share in C&amp;I.
What's to stop Huntington or Fifth Third or any of your other competitors from going out and just hiring a bunch of bankers as well? What are the pitfalls of this strategy that they may be avoiding or you find value in? We think that our business model is unique.
And we are focused on seven sectors we are focused on the middle market.
For example we have 46 research analysts covering 777 companies and while clearly our model can be replicated it's not just as easy as hiring a few bankers because you need the product experts and you need the industry experts.
And so because of that we feel like we have a bit of a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
And I might just add from a middle market community bank perspective we compete against those banks everyday for talent.
One of the things that really attracts bankers to Key is the relationship we have with our corporate bank and the ability to bring an industry expert to a client meeting to talk about their industry as opposed to competing solely on price or on credit terms.
So our recruiting efforts are oftentimes aided by Chris folks talking about how they can help them win new business.
The one thing that I would add that we also always talk about is when you look at the growth in our loans to our commercial clients and as you look at it also with our investment banking and debt placement fee you can see a high correlation that that's where the business model comes to light it's both what we can put on our balance sheet how we attract clients and actually lend into them but also through our broad product suite which Chris think is unique and differentiated are able to drive M&amp;A fees debt placement fees equity fees and a variety of robust fees coming out our payments capabilities.
So it's really a very holistic approach and loans are a significant part but also I think indicative of the broader model that we are able to bring across the continuum of commercial and middle market clients.
Our next question is from Bob Ramsey with FBR.
I may have missed it but I know you talked about fourth quarter expectations around margin and expenses.
Did you say where you think fee income will be relative to this quarter beyond the full-year number but just fourth quarter? What we just said is our full year number would be within our guidance range of mid single digit growth.
So that would imply that its going to be in that 4% to 6% range on a full year basis.
And then could you maybe talk about a couple of the lines predominantly principal investing I think is still running below where you have talked historically about run rate levels.
I know it can be a volatile quarter to quarter but curious bigger picture how you think about that.
And then maybe the operating lease decline this quarter maybe what's driving that and how we should think about that line going forward? As far as principal investing gains with market conditions overall and with the size of the portfolio shrinking Id say that $11 million that we have in the current quarter and for the past couple of quarters is probably appropriate run rate going forward.
And so you will see some volatility there but generally I think thats a decent outlook.
The operating lease income line item is down this quarter and that reflects a couple of things.
One we had about $4 million loss in the current quarter and we had a slight gain in the previous quarter.
And so that really created the change on a period over period but Id say that the current level is probably a little low given the impact of that loss.
And then corporate services obviously strong I know you highlighted some of the derivative income and loan commitment fees.
Is that just building from the hiring that you guys have done and the growth in the commercial bank or is there anything unusually strong and lumpy this quarter? Because of the fact that we are in the transaction business you will from time to time see lumpiness particularly with respect to commitment fees but underlying the entire line item and this cuts across both the corporate bank and E.J.s business in the community bank as well we have seen elevated levels in both foreign exchange and derivatives.
So yes there is some lumpiness but the underlying trend line is also positive.
And next we go to Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
I wondered if you could give us a quick update on your thinking about deploying capital through M&amp;A and whether that might be something you'd be open to over the coming quarters and years.
As we said before we have articulated our capital priorities and have said our capital position is the strength of this company.
So were pleased to continue to be among the peer leading return of capital to our shareholders.
And as youve seen over the last couple of years we have also used the opportunity to enhance our business model and our strategy as we expanded our product offerings such as acquiring our credit cards last year we are on the one year mark of our acquisition of Pacific Crest Securities and weve done some things over time to enhance our distribution.
So as we look at it we would look at opportunities that are consistent with our model things that would add to our client base and would be good for our shareholders.
And I think the things we have done in recent years have met that standard.
And then just to follow up on that there has been a couple of bank deals that have been a little bit larger in size that have got approval over the last few weeks  City National and Hudson City do you think the environment for bank M&amp;A is starting to change at all? It is good to see that some transactions have been announced and approved and the market has cleared those.
So I think it is an indication that there is more confidence or perhaps certainty.
I think thats good for the markets I think its good for buyers and sellers alike.
Our next question is from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
I wanted to follow up on something that Ken had asked about earlier.
Beth you talked a little bit about your loan growth and how that's somewhat tied into investment banking-related work that you do so there's some cross-selling going on there.
And you clearly have strong commercial loan growth.
But when I look at the yields on your loan portfolio clearly there's some downward pressure there.
And I know you talked about pricing these things holistically.
But can you give us a sense for how much cross-selling is going on between your lending clients and your banking clients? And given your very strong growth is there pressure because you want to drive efficiency improvements to keep ramping up that loan portfolio or should you be slowing that growth down so that maybe you can maintain some pricing discipline there? So can you just talk about that a little bit because there seems to be some moving parts? And again that yield pressure we would have thought at some point would've stabilized but it hasn't yet so some color would be helpful.
Let me just step back for a moment we dont really look at it as separate.
In other words we dont look at a loan product a fee product but what were really doing in a very holistic way is and a very targeted way is pursuing client relationships.
And when we pursue those we get the benefit of both fees and loan growth.
And if you look for example in the corporate bank our non-interest income this quarter is about 51%.
We like that mix of kind of half and half.
We think its a competitive advantage to have a balance sheet but we really think its our job to identify clients and serve them in any way that we possibly can.
And as I mentioned earlier the preponderance of the time that involves us accessing capital elsewhere.
In terms of the actual pricing on loans we have seen a slowdown in the rate of decline.
So if a year ago the year over year rate of decline for similar loan was down maybe 25 basis points maybe this year its down maybe half of that.
But with our business model were able to generate very very good returns for our shareholders and not take excessive risk in terms of growing core.
So we dont look at them as one or the other we focus on client relationships and the outcome of those could be loans could be fees or any derivation thereof.
The only thing I would add to that or two points one is that if you look at the new loan originations they have a better credit quality than the existing portfolio.
And so we would expect to have a little bit lower yield if their credit quality is better.
And so thats helpful for our overall credit picture but it has a little bit of additional pressure on the margin.
And then second I would say that linked quarter we did see our loan fees come down a little bit which cost us a couple of basis points there as well.
And so not necessarily reflective of the aggregate pricing for the portfolio but from time to time we do see some variance there as well.
And then on the efficiency ratio guidance and the reported numbers it seems like to the extent that you dial up on your fee-based revenues in any given quarter because you have higher investment banking activity that puts maybe some upward pressure on your efficiency ratio.
But at the same time I would imagine that that's probably a higher ROE earnings stream.
So how do you think about balancing the two out because ultimately isn't it about ROEs as opposed to just the efficiency ratio? And then just on a separate note if you can just talk about some of your investments on the digital front where you stand on those.
If you could size for us how much you expect to spend over the next say 12 to 18 months that also would be helpful.
Youre absolutely right.
One of the things we focus on quite a bit is just what kind of return on capital are we generating from our customers and whether thats in the community bank or the corporate bank.
Our fee businesses clearly have a stronger ROE for us and so thats something that were very excited about.
And if you look at for just an example the corporate bank the return on capital in that business has been hovering around a 30% type of level.
So clearly north of 20% and so that clearly is in an area that we want to see growth going forward.
And so sometimes that comes in areas where its a higher efficiency ratio and were fine with that as long as we can get the return on capital and get the return for our shareholder which we think is exceeding the cost to deliver that.
So again that is accretive.
As far as digital we continue to make a lot of investments there.
If you look at our technology deployment I would say thats somewhere between 15% and 20% of that budget on an annual basis is facing off against our digital investment and its enhancing our customer experience and providing more opportunities for those customers to engage and open new accounts with us.
Dennis anything else you want to add there from a digital side? The only thing I would add is youve seen a deliberate remixing of our distribution to our clients so you see the branch counts coming down meaningfully over the years and while thats in the digital taking place.
So theres no doubt that we see significant growth in the engagement of our clients from a digital perspective.
You see a real focus on the relationship strategy so that the investments we made are to bring ease value and expertise to our clients to the digital environment making sure that there is relevant offers to them in the digital space.
You see some partnerships that weve announced to bring that to life as well.
So thats in the run rate.
Weve really ramped up the investments in digital and expect to see that continue.
Our next question is from Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a quick follow-up to John's question earlier you were able to grow net interest income or are forecasting to grow net interest income this year while your margin is still come under pressure.
As we think about next year in the scenario where the Fed doesn't raise rates could we still expect your spread revenues to grow assuming that the margin has stabilized from here or is that too optimistic because we would have to take down our assumptions for activity levels if the Fed is keeping rates that low for longer? Ill tell you that well provide more clarity as far as our 2016 outlook at the next quarters call.
But as weve talked about for the next quarter and on a year over year basis were still expecting to have net interest income increase in the low single digits.
So not seeing anything fundamentally that would change that dramatically but again well provide more clarity after next quarter.
And well go to David Eads with UBS.
I wanted to follow up on some of the expense dynamics you've been talking about this morning.
When I look at the salaries and incentive comp line combined the expense for the third quarter was roughly the same as the second quarter.
I would've expected that to come down a little bit just due to the lower IBE revenues this quarter.
I'm wondering does that relate to some of the hiring you've done on the bankers side or maybe some incentive expenses related to the loan growth can you just walk through the dynamics of what has caused that to stay stable? If you look just the salary line by itself $7 million linked quarter a little over half of that is because of the number of business days increased by one this quarter versus the second quarter a little over $3.5 million of the increase there.
The rest of it really is the investments in the talent we talked about and also reflective of the current quarter is our first quarter of every year where we add our new rotational programs whether its in the corporate bank or credit or other areas we bring in a group of college graduates to the Key organization and that resulted in an increase in headcount linked quarter from that effort.
If you look at the incentives and stock-based compensation its down $6 million and that really is tied to that change in our capital markets revenue.
Not only did you see a decline in the investment banking and debt placement fees but you saw an increase in some of the corporate services income which was primarily driven by capital markets related areas as well.
And so the net change there of roughly $19 million had an impact of about $6 million decline in our overall incentive and stock based compensation expense.
And then just to confirm you guys didn't call out any kind of meaningful  the branch count was down I think 17 this quarter you guys didn't call out any meaningful restructuring or efficiency charges this quarter correct? And is there anything baked into your outlook for 4Q on that front? We would continue to have some branch consolidations.
We didnt call it out but weve recognized thats more of a part of our ongoing run rate that we did have our branches come down by 17 this quarter.
I would expect to continue to have a 2% to 3% decline year over year and that would imply some additional branch consolidations in the fourth quarter.
But nothing on the expense front that we should be thinking about specifically? Nothing outsized from what we experienced this quarter.
Thats correct.
And next well go to Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Don can you share with us I think most people would agree on the call that you folks are certainly overcapitalized.
And you also are giving back some of the most amount of capital as a percentage of earnings of your peers as you pointed out Beth.
What do you think it's going to take for you folks or maybe the industry in CCAR to give back more than upwards to 100% of earnings? Is there any color you can give to us on what you're thinking on how do you approach that with the regulators? This is an ongoing question that we have not only for our investors but also for our board and our management team.
And were always trying to read the signals and messages that were hearing from DC and our regulators to see if there is more willingness or appetite to see that type of pay out increase.
We do recognize that we are highly capitalized and want to be one of the top returner of capital going forward.
And so were looking for every indication we can get to see if that tone has changed or shifted.
Right now we just want to make sure that were disciplined with it; we recognize that part of our value really comes to our shareholders in the form of dividends and/or share buyback and we want to make sure that we can continue those going forward.
And then as a follow-up to your comments about the change in the mix of earning assets this quarter which contributed to the improvement in net interest income sequentially you brought down your liquidity as you pointed out is there more opportunities to do that in the fourth quarter and subsequent quarters or are you at the optimal level now? We think there is greater opportunity for us long term.
We still think our loan to deposit ratio is lower than where we would like to target long term and so we do have some additional flexibility.
Id say that the current quarter coming down by $1 billion in the short term earning assets is probably outsized from what you would see in subsequent quarters because it reflects some of the impact of some of those short term deposits that we expected to go out of the house over the last quarter and wouldnt expect those same pace going forward.
Our next question is from David Durst with Guggenheim Securities.
One of your peers has announced they're selectively pulling out of some of their retail markets in the Midwest.
As you think about the way you're going to consolidate your branches in the future would you consider exiting some markets as you're thinking of evolving? When we take a look at that part of our challenge that we see is were not seeing a differentiated performance market by market.
So were seeing improvements across the footprint and seeing better performance in all of our markets.
And our challenge really is if we exit the market what happens is that we eliminate 100% of the revenue and a portion of the expenses but not 100% of the expenses because we still have an infrastructure that supports the technology risk management and other functions that may not be quite as variable in nature.
And so we havent seen a benefit to our shareholders for truly exiting the markets but our focus really is continuing to improve the performance across our footprint and were seeing that and its starting to translate to bottom line improvement from that as well.
And then if we look at the number the 60 hires you had and then we look at the year-over-year productivity improvement you've been providing over the past couple years does this suggest there's still room to improve your cross-sell ratios and that productivity ratio? Absolutely the case and all of my business partners here are all nodding their head across the table from me.
So I think we have absolute agreement on that.
Our commitment and confident to be more productive and more efficient.
And next well go to Terry McEvoy with Stephens.
Just looking at the cards and payments business it's now 10% of fee income.
I know you've been making investments in payments.
Are you seeing the full benefit of those investments? Where do you see growth coming from going forward? And can you talk about maybe penetration rates among your merchants and some of the other metrics that we can track and monitor going forward? There is a couple areas that we have invested in significantly that were really starting to see a lot of traction.
And first is the purchase card business and what weve done and Im going to turn it over to Dennis in a minute but what weve done is worked very very closely with the community bank and not only in terms of penetration rates which are three or four X what theyve been but also the size of the clients are higher.
So thats one area.
Another area where weve had a lot of wins but it isnt really reflected yet because it takes some while to set up these programs is we got into the prepaid business and we had some very significant wins out of our public sector area.
Those dont really come online until 2016 but it gives us confidence as we look forward.
And the other area where I think we had some success Im going to ask Dennis to comment on it is on the merchant side where Dennis team has been very closely aligned especially thanks to Dennis who have been really coordinated.
The cards and payments line to Chris point you see on that line tangible payoff of the investments that weve been talking about.
So we acquired our credit card portfolio and we now self-originate.
To Chris point you see that same activity in the merchant business.
You also just see core client growth occurring across the community bank across the consumer and business banking portfolio and so with client growth comes activation and active cards.
Very proactively managed business but you can see a portfolio of investments that are really paying off with client growth and the active evidence of our relationship strategy.
Every one of these clients every one of these products is not a standalone but in the context of the broad relationship were bringing to market each day.<br> Just a follow-up for Chris you're one year into Pacific Crest.
As you think about the synergies between the tech vertical and the corporate bank do you think going forward we will see you enter maybe an eighth vertical as you continue to build out the investment bank and the corporate bank? Were always looking for a new vertical.
And as we look back I think the most important thing about Pacific Crest has been the fit from a cultural perspective the willingness of our team at Pacific Crest to be part of the bigger platform where they can offer more things to their clients and it does give us confidence that if we could find the right niche and again our business is all built around niches if we could find the right niche we would definitely look at trying to continue to leverage our platform which we think is not as leveraged as it could be.
And we have a question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
This is [Josh] in for Ken.
Bringing it back to investment banking was there any slippage in closings in the third quarter that might also help on top of the pipeline and the seasonality in the fourth quarter? Josh clearly the disruption in the market in the last part of the third quarter caused some of our deals and probably everybody elses deals to be pushed out a bit.
So theres no question.
And then also as I mentioned earlier for us I think opens the opportunity for us to look at alternative ways to finance transactions for the benefit of our clients.
So the answer to your question is yes some things undoubtedly were pushed off.
And for the residential mortgage business build-out how will the expense build show and when do expect revenues to start to show as well? As far as the expense build were already starting to incur some of that because were really investing in the infrastructure to make sure that we do it right and so we have added to our team already and youll see a slow add to it over the next several quarters.
As far as truly launching it were looking at sometime later in 2016 as far as really when you start to see the revenues pick up.
Anything else to add there E.J.? No Don.
I think thats correct.
As weve talked about before we try to calibrate on investment with our other expenses and you wouldnt expect to see much difference in that business until the second half of 2016.
And this morning we have no further questions in queue.
Thank you operator.
Again we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team at 216-689-4221.
That concludes our remarks and thank you again.
Good morning and welcome to the KeyCorps Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Beth Mooney Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to KeyCorps fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me for todays presentation is Don Kimble our Chief Financial Officer; and available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Chris Gorman President of our Corporate Bank; E.J.
Burke and Dennis Devine Co-Presidents of our Community Bank; and Bill Hartmann our Chief Risk Officer.
Slide 2 is our statement on forward-looking disclosure and non-GAAP financial measures.
It covers our presentation materials and comments as well as the question-and-answer segment of our call.
Im now turning to Slide 3.
Our fourth quarter closes out what has been a very significant year for our company.
We improved our operating performance continued our credit discipline maintained our strong capital position and made investments that will drive future growth and profitability.
For the year Key generated positive operating leverage that we believe was among the strongest in our peer group.
Our revenues were up 3% and our pre-provision net revenue was up 5% both compared to the prior year.
These results reflect our success in continuing to grow and expand client relationships in both the Community Bank and the Corporate Bank.
And these new clients contributed to our 5% growth in average loans and 12% growth in CF&amp;A balances.
We also increased our core fee-based income including in investment banking and debt placement fees which were up 12% another record year for us.
Corporate services and card and payments were both up 10%.
And I think its worth noting that these are areas where we have made recent investments that are generating growth and positive returns.
Expense management also remained an area of focus.
During the year we continue to execute on opportunities to right size our business produce occupancy costs and improve operational efficiencies.
Expense trends reflect our investment to drive future growth and profitability as well as merger-related charges and those related to our continuous improvement and efficiency effort.
Investments during the year included remixing our headcount to increase client facing roles in both the Corporate Bank and the Community Bank.
We also enhanced our payments capability which have driven strong growth in purchase and prepaid card as well as a 13% increase year-over-year in credit card sales.
And we continue to invest in our digital and mobile offerings as well as ongoing enhancements to our compliance and regulatory processes.
These were good investments that helped drive our revenue growth in 2015 and they will make an even larger contribution in the future as they fully mature.
While these investments including the addition of 60 senior bankers and our Corporate and Community Bank as well as Pacific Crest Securities position us for growth.
They offset some of the efficiency improvements made in other areas of our company last year.
Importantly we remain committed to further improvement and the targets that we have established.
Credit quality remained a good story in 2015 but nonperforming loans down for the year and net charge-offs were 24 basis points which is below our targeted range.
We remain committed to strong risk management practices and staying true to our relationship focus.
The final item on the slide is capital.
Our common equity Tier 1 ratio remains strong at a 11% which we believe positioned us well for the 2016 CCAR process.
And we expect both share repurchases and a dividend increase to be part of the capital plans we will submit.
Im now moving to Slide 4 which provides some highlights of our announced acquisition of First Niagara.
We continue to make good progress as we move toward our anticipated closing in the third quarter of this year.
Under the leadership of Chris Gorman we have established integration teams with some of the top talent from both Key and First Niagara.
And these teams have been focused on developing detailed assessments and moving forward with our integration plans.
As we move through these early stages Im even more confident and this being the right opportunity for Key and our ability to realize the cost savings.
The combined company will generate attractive financial returns and create value for our shareholders and accelerates our progress towards becoming a high performing regional bank.
And although not included in our financial projections we will realize additional value from revenue synergies that will also add to the financial performance.
We look forward to sharing more developments with you in the coming quarters as we move towards closing.
Before I turn the call over to Don I would like to close my remarks by saying that it was a good year for Key.
We executed against our strategic and financial goals and took steps to accelerate our progress going forward.
Im proud of our team and of our performance.
And Im excited about the opportunities that we have ahead.
Now Ill turn the call over to Don to discuss the details of our fourth quarter results.
Don? Thanks and Im on Slide 6.
As Beth said we had a good year finishing with fourth quarter net income from continuing operations of $0.27 per common share this compared to $0.28 on the year-ago period and $0.26 in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter Key incurred $10 million of charges related to pension settlement in the acquisition of the First Niagara.
The combined impact was $0.01 per common share.
Excluding these items net income from continuing operations was $0.28 per common share the same as the year-ago quarter.
However its worth noting in comparison with the year-ago period that the current quarter includes $23 million in the higher provision expense and $18 million in lower principal investing gains giving us a strong finish to the year.
Also that on the slide is our revenue growth.
For the quarter revenue was up 2% from the prior year and up 3% from the prior quarter.
For the full-year Key had revenue growth of over 3% reflecting the success weve had in growing our business.
This revenue growth has allowed us to grow our pre-provision net revenues 5% year-over-year.
I will cover the other items on the  within rest of my presentations.
Im now turning it over to Slide 7.
Average loan balances were up $3 billion or 5% compared to year-ago quarter and up $295 million in the third quarter.
Our year-over-year growth was once again driven primarily by commercial financial and agricultural loans and it was broad-based across Keys business lending segments.
Average CF&amp;A loans were up $3.7 billion or 14% compared to the prior year and were $510 million or 2% on annualized in the third quarter.
During the current quarter we continue to generate strong customer growth that was muted by pay downs of lines through existing customers.
Continuing on the Slide 8.
On the liability side of the balance sheet average deposits excluding deposits in foreign office totaled $71.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2015 an increase of $2.3 billion compared to the year-ago quarter.
The year-over-year increase is reflective of our growth in our commercial mortgage servicing business and inflows from commercial and consumer clients.
Compared to the third quarter of 2015 average deposits excluding deposits in foreign office increased by $1.5 billion.
The growth was driven by both seasonal and short-term deposit inflows from commercial clients along with growth in NOW and money market deposit accounts and certificates of deposit.
Turning to Slide 9.
Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $610 million for the fourth quarter of 2015.
And the net interest margin was 2.87%.
These results compared to taxable-equivalent net interest income of $588 million and a net interest margin of 2.94% for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase in net interest income reflects higher earning asset balances partially offset by lower earning asset yields which also drove the decline in the net interest margin.
Compared to the third quarter of 2015 taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by $12 million and the net interest margin was unchanged.
The increase in net interest income and the stable net interest margin were attributable to higher earning asset yields and loan fees.
And while net interest margin was stable it was negatively impacted by higher levels of excess liquidity driven by short-term commercial deposit growth.
Slide 10 shows the summary of noninterest income which accounted for 44% of our total revenues.
Noninterest income in the fourth quarter was $485 million down $5 million or a 1% from the prior year and up $15 million or 3% from the prior quarter.
A slight decrease from the prior year was attributed to lower net gains from principal investing of $18 million and $7 million of lower trust and investment services incomes reflecting market variability.
These decreases were partially offset by $12 million increase in other income gains in our Real Estate Capital line of business.
Along with growth in some of Keys other core fee-based business including $4 million of higher cards and payments income and $4 million increase in mortgage servicing fees.
Compared to last quarter noninterest income improved by $15 million most notably from higher investment banking and debt placement fees that marking a strong finish to a record year.
Additionally other income went higher once again related to the gains in Real Estate Capital.
And corporate-owned life insurance increase reflecting normal seasonality.
These items were offset by lower net gains in principal investing.
Turning to Slide 11.
As you can see on this slide expense levels were elevated and reflected a number of moving pieces.
Ill start with the current quarter.
Noninterest expense was $736 million which included $20 million of charges consisting of $10 million of  excuse me efficiency charges primarily related to branch closures and severance $6 million of merger-related costs and $4 million of pension settlement expense.
Next compared to the fourth quarter of last year our noninterest expenses up 5% the increase was primarily attributed to $20 million of higher personnel costs reflecting a $11 million increase in benefit cost.
The investments in client-facing personnel cost across the company and higher severance expense.
We also had a $6 million of merger-related cost.
And finally linked quarter expenses were up 2% related $12 million of higher incentive compensation related to strong capital market performance and end of the year accruals $6 million of merger-related cost incurred in the fourth quarter and $6 million of higher efficiency-related charges.
These are partially offset by the lower pension settlement charge.
Once again the current quarter included elevated levels of expenses reflecting the cost noted above in normal seasonal trends.
We would expect first quarter expense levels to be significantly lowered in the fourth quarter.
Also we would expect the full-year 2016 expenses to be relatively stable with 2015 adjusted from merger-related costs.
Turning to Slide 12.
The net charge-offs were $37 million or 25 basis points of average total loans in the fourth quarter which continues to be below our targeted range.
In the fourth quarter provision for credit losses of $45 million slightly above the level of charge-offs reflecting current trends in our portfolio.
Nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets were both down relative to the prior quarter and year-ago period.
At December 31 2015 our reserve for total losses represented 1.33% of period end loans and 206% coverage of our nonperforming loans.
It is also worth noting that our energy exposure is small representing 2% of our total portfolio and its performed in line with our expectations.
Weve built reserves throughout the year which currently represents 6% of outstanding loans.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our common equity Tier 1 ratio was strong at December 31 of 2015 at 10.95%.
There were no share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year we repurchased $460 million of common shares.
We expect share repurchases and increase dividend to be included in our upcoming 2016 CCAR submission.
Now moving on to Slide 14.
For 2016 outlook were providing guidance on a standalone Key operations.
In 2016 we expect continue to drive positive operating leverage.
Average loans should grow in the mid single-digit range as we benefit from the strength in our commercial businesses.
We anticipate that net interest income growth in the low single-digit percentage range compared to 2015 without any benefit from higher interest rates.
With the benefit of future rate increases we would anticipate net interest income to be up in the mid single-digit range.
Its also important to note that we have assumed that deposit rates will increase with future rate increases.
Noninterest income is expected to be up at mid single-digit percentage range for the year.
This assumes continued strong improvement investment banking and debt placement fees as well as continued growth in cards and payments income.
Were also assuming very modest levels of principal investing gains for 2016.
Full-year afforded expenses should be relatively stable 2015.
We would expect to see normal seasonal trends and expenses where first quarter expense was down significantly from the fourth quarter level.
Credit quality should remain a good story with net charge-offs below our targeted range of 40 basis to 60 basis points.
We also expect provision levels to maintain a stable level of allowance to total loans.
And finally we expect our dividend to increase in the second quarter to $0.85 per share.
And the 2016 CCAR plans include both common share repurchases and an increased dividend.
Our guidance excludes the impact of merger-related charges as well the acquisition of First Niagara.
If the acquisition closes in the third quarter as planned we would expect EPS impact be a slight dilution of 1% to 2% in 2016 and accretive in 2017.
With that Ill close and turn the call back over to the operator for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we go to the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys this is Josh in for Ken.
Can you just talk about what rate assumption do you include with that NII guidance with rates? Sure.
Our assumptions would be to have two additional rate increases for 2016 both of which in the second half of the year and then the last of which toward the end of the year.
Okay.
And then secondly can you just talk to the ID pipeline and what you are seeing here in the outlook? Sure Josh its Chris.
As we look at our pipeline kind of across the Corporate Bank our pipelines are very much in line with where they were a year-ago.
And as Don mentioned we had a record year last year.
So we actually feel very good about our pipelines.
Great thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
And next up to Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Beth just wanted to ask a question on something you mentioned during your prepared remarks.
You mentioned that you are even more confident about the First Niagara deal after in terms of extracting cost savings.
Could you give us a little bit of color in terms of the conversations or the progress that you have made after announcing the deal in terms of seeking about the future impact? And also with the progresses in terms of getting First Niagara ready to be embedded into your CCAR process? Yes Erika Id be glad to discuss that and Ill let Don address the CCAR portion because hes closer to that work than I am.
And you are correct that Im even more confident and we feel even stronger about the path and quality of what will be the value of this combined  of these combined company.
On the cost savings as you know we had targeted $400 million or approximately 40% of their cost.
And while in early days the integration teams have been identified and are working two-by-two to map out those plans and as we really understand the underlying cost structure particularly in technology operations vendor expense there are significant savings in all of those areas that probably contribute to over 40% of that $400 million.
So out of the gates as we look for the path well nothing is ever easy.
We also see very real savings that are easy to garner and well also be realized fairly early within the debt time after our acquisition.
Were also looking at our complimentary business capabilities and revenue synergies that we continue to gain confidence about the value that will be created there.
So in all I do think you hear a continued tone of confidence as well as a path forward that we feel strongly about.
And as far as the CCAR process we will be including First Niagara within assumed acquisition date in the third quarter as weve talked about before for the CCAR submission.
We will be relying primarily on Key models in the past and using the First Niagara information where we can to  run through our existing models as well.
And so we will show within the plan a separate amount for both First Niagara and Key in standalone basis but the total CCAR plan will include the assumption that First Niagara is a part in the third quarter.
Got it.
And really appreciate the color the look forward color on the 2016 CCAR submission.
And as we think about  the amount of common share repurchases should we assume that  given that First Niagara is part of your two-year plan that the 2016 be a buyback as it would be lighter than the up to $725 million that you had approved for 2015? I think its too early to assume that the absolute dollar amounts.
So what we do believe and do expect to see a significant portion of share buybacks as well as an increase in our dividend for the 2016 CCAR but well have to work through that over the next several months and finalize those remaining details.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we will go to Scott Siefers with Sandler ONeill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to ask a question on overall loan growth.
Now based on the guide for 2016 it looks like there are no hiccups or anything.
But it just was a little caught off guard by the slowdown in the few categories and then the overall rate of loan growth in the fourth quarter.
So either Don or Beth I was just hoping you could update us on your thoughts on overall loan demand trends youre seeing et cetera.
Sure.
As far as the overall loan growth that if you look at the average balances I would say on a year-over-year basis were up 5% were saying for next year mid single-digits.
Pipelines remained strong.
We had a very strong third quarter.
And so if youre just looking at a period end balances there clearly was some slowdown in the period end balances because of some temporary flows in and out during that subsequent period.
But I would say that were continuing to see very strong growth in our commercial business.
You will probably see some slower growth from Key and our commercial real estate area and thats intentional as far as some of the credit disciplines were maintaining and backing off of some of the higher growth areas from a multifamily perspective and also adjusting our outlook as far as due to housing and few areas like that.
So you could see a lot less construction loan activity from Key than you might be seeing from some of our peers.
And Scott I would just follow-on with the notion that Don did say we had an extremely strong third quarter and there are some variability quarter-to-quarter.
But I think it was a good quarter and obviously a good year and when you look to our guidance for 2016 was mid-single-digit and continue to strengthen our commercial businesses.
I look at that across the spectrum and continue to say this is an area of strength and where we have been investing in our senior bankers in order to drive growth through client acquisition.
Perfect.
All right thats good color.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Pancari with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A couple of questions here back to First Niagara just any thing about the updated macro environment or are there mid energy concerns here or just overall U.S.
economics developments.
Anything influencing your mark that you took that would make you have to revisit that? The marks that well be taking will be done as of the close date.
And so I would say that as what were experiencing I dont think there is any outsize risk from the marks on the First Niagara portfolio from a loan broker or others that would suggest any overall concerns there.
But again well finalize those toward the acquisition date and make sure that we have the appropriate evaluation within that time.
Okay.
And then separately I wanted to get your  and sorry if I missed this but I wanted to get your updated thoughts on the manufacturing sector as it pertains to impacting loan growth as well as credit.
I know weve seen some  the industrial space seen some pressure here and some banks have flagged some incremental concern there but wanted to get your updated thoughts.
Thanks.
So John its Chris.
Clearly as were out talking to customers everyday a 2% growth in the economy coupled with the strong dollar its not without challenges.
Having said that So it certainly isnt rosy.
Growth is as I said probably 2% but the companies are in good shape.
They have a lot of cash and they are looking to do things strategically.
Broadly when you have sales of $17.5 million cars and trucks at retail that has a positive impact on what business banking clients middle market clients and other clients because a lot of the folks obviously are part of the supply chain.
Okay.
And then lastly just going back to the strong 3Q you said that you saw in loan growth.
So is it fair to think  fair to focus more on the end of period balances here as we model out in terms of the real trends were seeing in loan growth? I dont know that I would want to stay on the period end balances but it happens to work out this quarter that if you look at our average balances in the fourth quarter they are lower than the period end.
So if we continue that kind of momentum going forward it would imply a mid-single-digit kind of year-over-year growth.
So I would say thats a reflect of this quarter but not necessarily every quarter.
Yes got it.
All right thanks Don.
Thank you.
And well go to David Eads with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Curious to get any color you guys might have on what you are seeing in the energy vertical and in your capital market business in terms of where people are going for capital where the discussions are whether the people  whether you guys are involved in restructuring discussions or asset yield discussion just kind of what the state of play from where you stand is there? So this is Chris.
I think the answer is all the above.
I think depending on where in sort of the capital stack companies are clearly the amount of high yield debt that was raised when the cycle first started to turn over that has dissipated the amount of private equity that has come in I think that has started to dissipate.
And I do think people are looking at asset sales whole company sales and other forms of restructuring.
So I think with oil trading $26 or $27 a barrel I think people are looking at all options.
And we are part of those discussions.
Has there been a change to the percentage of capital raised potential the balance sheet I think it dipped a little bit in brief.
Im just curious where that shook out in 4Q? The actual capital raised in the oil and gas sector was actually down in the fourth quarter.
If you give a number more broadly for sorry little bit unclear on the broader business? Im sorry broadly what  for the year in our capital  in our entire Corporate Bank platform weve raised $57 billion across all the verticals and about $9.3 billion or say 16% actually went on to our balance sheet.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Credit trends looked good and all the numbers I see out there Im just curious as you guys think about credit if you are incrementally more or less cautious maybe a quarter or a year-ago? Bob this is Bill Hartmann.
I think as we look at credit in our portfolio we have a very very granular portfolio which is one of the ways that we like to balance things out.
I would pick up on Chriss comments about the general overall trend in our low growth economy.
Were being diligent to look for any signs of weakness.
And what were seeing is really reflective in Chriss comments which is there are certain sectors where were seeing weakness.
But overall the trends that were showing in our numbers say that the overall portfolio quality remains high.
Okay.
And I guess sectors where you are seeing weakness I know you mentioned manufacturing a little bit but beyond that and maybe energy where else well be seeing some weakness? Were not seeing any weakness per se but we have been cautious for a while now in talking about multifamily and being conscious about where we invest and how we do that and then student housing was another area.
Okay.
Great thank you.
And next we go to Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Don Good morning.
You mentioned that  on the other commercial lending areas those balances obviously are down and you guys are sticking to your credit disciplines theres been some talk about the multifamily and student loan housing markets that youre seeing some weakness.
Can you share with us some of the underwriting criteria that youre seeing out there that makes you hesitant to get involved or is it just overbuilding that has you concerned in these markets? Gerard its Chris.
We look at a lot of metrics.
You can start with some of the cap rates and they range from in large gateway cities 5% in some instances even 4%.
And those were sort of priced to perfection.
We spend a lot of time looking at what the rent to wage ratio is i.e.
the affordability of these Class A multifamily apartment buildings.
Those are some of the metrics we look out.
And then we also spend a lot of time looking at what people are doing out in the market how far out are they going are they doing non-recourse loans.
What percent of our book for example is non-stabilized? Were now down to 13% of our total commitments in real estate are non-stabilized.
So those are some of the metrics were looking at.
And Chris when you mentioned the cap rates of 4% to 5% price to perfection what do you guys more comfortable with even with that specific metric of a cap rate? Its really  youd have to look at market-by-market and really what the opportunity is.
But I can tell you when you get to a 4% cap rate that has built into those assumptions that itll lease up  that it will lease up quickly and you will be able to get rent increases going forward.
And we just think that  we just think that those are a lot of variables.
And just finally on this commercial real estate have you guys seen any evidence the regulators came out late last year with concerns about the commercial real estate market underwriting? Is there any evidence yet thats sinking into banks to kind of be a little more conservative? We are seeing that in the marketplace I am  we  of course were familiar with the sort of prudent lending memo that came out I think in the fourth quarter.
E.J.
is sitting next to me.
I think the last time the regulators sent out such a memo in real estate it was when? 2005.
2005.
And so I think  we actually think the regulators are right.
We think the market is a little hot in certain areas and thats why by strategy weve been really toggling more to agent from principal.
Great.
And then my final question is in the Community Bank you guys show the assets and the management dropped I think 13% maybe year-over-year.
Can you just give us some color on whats going on in that part of the business? This is E.J.
Burke.
Included in that  in the $39 billion from 2014 is a sub line of business that we call institutional asset services.
And in that business there is a securities lending function which has been  is not something weve been growing.
We had a couple clients exit so about $4 billion of that drop were two clients that left that were doing now  we are doing even securities lending form.
Not much.
Youll note that our  the drop in our  the difference in our trust and investment services revenue wasnt nearly that big.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And next well go to Terry McEvoy with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hey Terry.
Good morning.
Hi.
Don you talked about higher deposit rates in your NIM outlook.
Could you provide maybe your deposit data assumption? Do they differ at all by region? And how that would compare to past cycles? Yes that  what our base assumption is were about a 55% deposit beta and there isnt a whole lot of fluctuation by region thats more of a general assumption.
It does get more granular at the product level so we would use that.
And essentially what we have included in our guidance is our assumptions here include the outlook that our deposit rates would increase that same deposit beta level for future rate increases.
And so there is some potential opportunity there if that would lag initially.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up for Beth.
Every time I read my hometown newspaper in Western New York it seems like a politician or a business leader is saying something against the First Niagara deal.
And I guess my question is is this type or was this expected? Is a little bit more than you expected? And could there be any additional costs or concessions that you have to make to get the deal done in terms of expenses and/or divestitures of branches and deposits? Yes Terry.
It is clearly an area where it is a large acquisition in an environment where there have not been many significant acquisitions in the last several years.
So it has garnered a fair amount of intention  attention but we have been very diligent and consistent in our outraged community leaders and public officials and I believe were having very very constructive dialogue.
In part Key is a very good partner for this franchise and as we look at the story we have to tell in our long-standing track record in community investment community development a straight CRA outstanding ratings which no other top banking company has ever received.
I think weve gone a long way to setting a very constructive town for the kind of neighbor the kind of bank and the kind of partner we will be.
So weve made a lot of commitment not only about achieving our financial targets but also about doing the right things for clients employees communities and shareholders.
And I believe that were obviously in the process with the Department of Justice who will make the determinations on the divestiture numbers.
And working through our plans and our progress and I think we will be a good and significant partner and good for those communities and those customers.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Next we will go to Matt OConnor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
As we think about the expense progression throughout the year should we expect any meaningful lumpiness? Stable for the full-year but first half on a year-over-year basis for second half on a year-over-year basis should be relatively stable I guess for both periods? Yes that just from a seasonal tend our first quarter trends to be our lowest point as far as expense levels and so we would expect a meaningful or if we said significant reduction from our fourth quarter level.
Then you would typically expect the fourth quarter to be one of the higher quarters as far as the expenses.
So I think you would see a similar trend overall as far as the expense levels.
Keep in mind that first quarter of last year our investment banking and debt placement fees were low and so our incentive compensation would have been low last year compared to probably what you would expect in the first quarter of next year because we would expect to have a nice increase in investment banking and debt placement fees for the first quarter compared to a year-ago.
Okay.
Don that partially answer the question.
I guess what Im trying to get out is as we think about keeping expenses flat do we see some increase on the year-over-year basis in the first half of the year and then some of the efficiencies kick in in the back half of the year.
You kind of just said 1Q might be up on a year-over-year because of the incentives.
But just conceptually kind of first half second half? Yes I would say that our expense initiatives are continuous throughout the year.
So I dont think there is going to be any lumpiness there.
I think as you just repeated we would expect first quarter expenses in 2016 to be higher than 2015 reflecting the overall performance outlook expectations higher revenue during that quarter from those business lines.
Okay all right thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Durst with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you speak to the continuous improvement program and where do you think you are on percentage of completion and month of those expenses could be for the year? Continuous improvement I hope were never done.
So this is something that we believe this is part of our culture and continue to focus on that.
And weve just implemented a number of areas which created some of the charges weve had in the fourth quarter as it relates to our private banking area and restructuring.
And so thats just one example of where we do deeper dives in the specific areas looking from everything from the customer interface all the way through to the back office and making sure that were designing that in a way that can be more effective with that customer interaction but also more efficient for us from a cost perspective.
So we would expect to see ongoing opportunities at a similar size of what weve been experiencing this year.
Okay and then on the private investing gains whats your outlook for those this year and then whats the balance of that portfolio? The principal investing gains as we showed was zero for the current quarter that our outlook is show very modest levels of gains for next year.
So it would be a smaller level than clearly what we had throughout this year.
And the current balance is around $300 million of investments and so we would see reductions from that balance just because we are about $450 million starting the year.
So were down about two-thirds the level we were a year-ago.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we go to Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Chris I want to ask you you did a really good job with debt placement investment banking this quarter given all the disruptions in the marketplace.
Didnt really expect you to be able to can just blow through that like it had no impact are there anything that you see on the horizon or anything thats been happening that would put any pressure on a sense of being able to pull those deals through? Sure Marty.
Obviously we like everybody else are subjected to the markets and to the extent that the markets would continue as they have been in the last two weeks or three weeks.
Our ability to pull through our pipeline the yield to our pipeline would be less.
We are really proud of the way we navigated what was a very choppy fourth quarter in the debt markets.
So were really pleased that weve been able to distribute all the paper that we had.
But to your point if we were to face very very choppy markets going forward that would have an impact in the first place as you would see the impact would be in the M&amp;A area and also youd see obviously a related impact in the financing areas.
Then while the investment banking debt placement was good trust and your investment was down in what typically be an upturn kind of in the back end of the year.
Don I was just curious was that all market value-related and would we see further impacts as you move into the first quarter given the first couple of weeks and compression weve seen in a market valuations? The impact there really was in two areas.
One is that some of that is commission revenue and revenue was down this quarter reflecting some of the market related activities.
And then the other piece was that we did see some pressure on asset value which created some pressure on the revenues there.
First quarter is not off to a great start as far as asset values.
And so I think thats an area that would continue to have some pressure throughout 2016 but our guidance  that mid single-digit kind of growth reflected seeing some pressure in that area.
Thanks.
And we will go to Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
Im  I guess that it feels like some companies are starting to get a bit more nervous on the credit outlook.
So what are the early indicators that you typically look at to get a sense of what that credit might be turning a few quarters out and how they performing? Geoffrey this is Bill Hartmann.
So in our portfolio monitoring activities we have a number of different metrics that we look at that we refer to as early warning indicators.
Some of them are macro and we take a look at how those macro indicators might impact our portfolios by industry and by region.
And then we also look at the performance of the companies themselves and in the conversations that our bankers are having about the way that the companies prepare themselves for changes in the economic environment.
As Chris mentioned one of the things that were noticing and have noticed for a while is that many of these companies are being very conservative by carrying larger amounts of cash which show up in the deposits that we have.
And there also the growth in loans is not necessarily been with the customers that we have because theyre not going at it investing in an environment thats only growing at 2% to 3%.
So I understand that youre saying that you think the higher cash balances give you more protection  higher cash balances at corporate give you more protection than you would have had in prior corporate cycle thats kind of the message youre trying to get across? Yes I think what were saying is that the customers themselves still remember the last cycle.
And liquidity became extremely important in the way in which they manage themselves through a cycle.
And so by carrying a larger cash balances it gives them more of an ability to manage their companies successfully through the cycle which benefits us in their ability to survive.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we go to Peter Winter with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Don just one has housekeeping item.
The FDIC deposit insurance surcharge just wondering I know its proposed but what the impact would be for you guys? There would be a slight impact that it wouldnt be significant to the overall expense base.
Okay.
Is that included in the 4Q? It would be in our guidance.
Yes.
Got it.
And then just a question for E.J.
just on the Community Bank with  just wondering if you could talk about the loan trends and what youre seeing in small business loan demand? For small business? Yes.
I would turn that to my partner Dennis Devine he has a small business.
I can talk to commercial banking which is kind of our lower end and middle market.
Okay.
Ill take the rest.
Okay.
Both well let  first of all in the commercial banking segment we had a very good quarter from a loan production standpoint and then for the year weve had good loan growth.
We did see some clients pay us down in the quarter.
They didnt pay as off they just paid us down.
And digging beneath those numbers and talking to clients we found that as Bill alluded to earlier theyre carrying higher cash balances paying us down.
So we feel pretty good going into the year around our pipelines.
And then finally the last thing Id say is that weve talked for the past couple of quarters about the fact that weve hired a number of bankers across the franchise.
Those bankers are ramping up and were starting to see a good production and new client acquisition from those bankers.
Dennis? Small business would be comparable.
The sentiment would be about the same.
The  our production has been up a little bit as much focused around our execution of anything else.
The ability to deliver to small business clients is important.
And so both the capabilities of our branches our business banking [indiscernible] and some centralized capabilities weve brought to market.
So you see some year-over-year production increases against a relatively stable outlook as both E.J.
and Chris have spoken to.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] And well go to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank for taking my questions.
Again just an administrative question I guess on the oil and gas portfolio youve mentioned whats your outstanding exposures are.
Im curious whats your commitments in that sector might be? And whether or not theyve changed much over the last quarter or last 12 months? This is Bill Hartmann.
So our total commitments to the sector are approximately $3 billion.
They have been coming down slightly over the last 12 months or so.
I think thats your question.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
And then Beth I know that your commentary about the initial days of the planning for the First Niagara acquisition.
And I guess Im just curious maybe its a matter of just  a little bit of color.
But are you suggesting that there could be if not just cost savings above the $400 million that youve targeted perhaps a faster ramp up of the cost savings? And are you suggesting that your level of confidence in terms of the potential revenue synergies is better than you guided when you announced the deal? Yes Matt.
Ill go ahead and talk about that.
I do believe that our confidence in the cost savings both the path for some of the timing as I talked about some of third-party vendor contracts their technology and operations largely being in an outsourced world gives us a fair amount of certainty around the cost as well as ability to realize savings in early days of the integration.
And as we look at our detailed planning which again is still early days but our planning would suggest.
We believe that there are more opportunities over and above the $400 million.
So just in general as we firm up path and plans I think were feeling stronger and better.
And as we look at the revenue synergies we quoted in our call that we had in late October around $300 million in revenue synergies was the numbers that we had put out there obviously with some offsetting costs on that numbers something less than that around $200 million.
And I think what were really seeing is more confidence around the places in the way that we would realize those revenue synergies.
We see the complementary nature of our business models they are accelerating our compliance within the mortgage space.
And as wed look generally around the cultures and the product capabilities and their client base we see  are getting more confident about the path on the revenue synergies.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
And well go to Kevin Barker with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow-up on the energy question.
What is the percentage of criticized assets that you have in your energy portfolio at this time? We have about 31% of our energy assets are criticized.
Great.
And then a follow-up on some of your comments regarding commercial real estate and some of the regulatory concerns.
Could you help us just give us a little more color around what sectors and what regions of the country you are seeing particular softness or just froth in general regarding commercial real estate? Sure this is Chris.
Specifically Kevin were really focused on multifamily Class A multifamily.
And some of the areas that weve identified or places like Houston Raleigh D.C.
Boston Denver Seattle just to name a few.
Are you seeing anything in regards to hotel sector or even retail? We dont participate in the hotel sector so thats not something we focus on.
And then what about regards to retail? Retail is not a big part of our business either.
So were not really  what were really most dialed in on in terms of areas of concern is really the froth in the multifamily area.
Okay.
All right thank you for taking my questions.
And with that we have no further questions in queue.
All right thank you operator.
And again to all we thank you for taking time from your schedule to participate in our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can direct them to our Investor Relations team at 216-689-4221 and that concludes our remarks.
Thank you and have a good day.