Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Kimco's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce your speaker today Mr.
Dave Bujnicki.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Clayton.
Thank you all for joining the First Quarter 2011 Kimco Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Cohen our Chief Financial Officer.
There are also other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call represent the company and management’s hopes intentions beliefs expectations or projections of the future which are forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco’s operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have the opportunity to speak with management.
Feel free to return to the queue if you have additional questions.
And if we have time at the end of the call we will address those questions.
With that I now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for calling in today.
We are pleased with our first quarter results and believe that they represent solid and steady progress on our key 2011 objectives.
With help from a slowly improving economy and renewed expansion activity from our national retailers our most important portfolio metrics continue to improve with positive same-store NOI leasing spreads and renewals.
Mexico also made an important contribution as our combined portfolio of both existing and newly completed shopping centers achieved an 80% aggregate occupancy level and leasing activity accelerated.
Overall we are particularly pleased with the increase in our recurring FFO over year-ago levels.
While the economy remains fragile with weak employment and housing levels the recovery has achieved critical momentum in many respects.
Retailers are growing again and there's virtually no new development activity.
Excess space is being slowly absorbed and rent levels are improving in many markets.
Mike will go into the specifics but we continue to be optimistic about our full year property level results.
Subsequent to quarter end we completed the sale of the Valad convertible bonds to Blackstone.
And as a result we reduced our non-retail portfolio to just over $600 million.
We're only 5% of our total assets.
We will continue to decrease our non-retail assets in a measured and disciplined way.
On a parallel course we also continue to make progress in reducing our portfolio of retail preferred equity investments through property sales refinancing partner buyouts and conversion to pursue joint ventures.
The preferred equity retail portfolio has declined from $297 million and 125 properties to $156 million and 91 properties over the past 15 months.
Our earnings release also outlined new business activity.
And without again listing the specific individual transactions it is important to note that we are again actively acquiring properties from third parties for both our institutional joint ventures and our own portfolio.
So far new business has come in the form of one-off transactions but we also continue to evaluate portfolio opportunities.
The market is clearly heated for high-quality retail properties and we together with our institutional partners are being disciplined and patient.
With our large portfolio long history and many relationships we are confident we will continue to have success adding excellent retail properties to our portfolio on an accretive basis.
Forgive me for again closing by repeating our 2011 priorities: continued improvement in our key metrics occupancy same store NOI and leasing spreads; achieving stability and lease-up of our Latin American property portfolio; reducing our non-retail investments and selling our non-strategic retail properties; growing in a measured way by acquiring high-quality retail properties in our core markets; and further reducing our debt with a target net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 6.0 or lower.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Glenn for highlights of our quarterly financial results and then Mike Pappagallo will provide details on our property operation.
Milton will close with his perspective.
Okay.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
I would characterize the activity and the results for the first quarter as further confirmation of our team executing the strategy that we presented at our Investor Day last September.
As we reported last night recurring FFO was $0.30 for the quarter which excludes a $0.02 charge for non-cash impairments related to the disposition or impending disposition of certain non-strategic retail assets compared to $0.28 last year.
Now we are all aware that FFO requires the inclusion of impairments in FFO but ignores the gains on sales of operating properties.
As we go through the process of disposing of the non-strategic assets we expect we will have our share of gains and possibly further losses.
However whether included in FFO or not we remain focused on recurring FFO which excludes non-recurring income as well as non-cash impairment charges.
Recurring FFO came in at $121.2 million for the quarter compared to $115.6 million last year an increase of approximately 5%.
This increase was primarily driven by improved operating profitability from our shopping centers delivering increased revenues and net operating income including results from the Mexico portfolio which exceeded our first quarter budget.
Our occupancy for the combined portfolio without regard to ownership percentage was 92.8% up 20 basis points from last year.
Looking just at the U.S.
portfolio occupancy stands at 92.5% without regard to ownership percentage up 40 basis points from the year ago.
We are now providing disclosure on our supplemental package for same-site NOI growth Canadian and Latin America operations which produced same-site NOI of 1.7% on a combined basis.
Our U.S.
same-site NOI increased by 1.1% representing the fourth consecutive quarter of positive results for this metric.
Leasing spreads were also positive for the quarter.
We continue to make progress on the disposition of the non-retail assets.
Subsequent to quarter end we sold the remaining investment we had in the Valad convertible bonds to Blackstone for AUD $165 million.
At the time we reached a binding agreement with Blackstone we entered into a foreign currency forward contract to lock in the exchange rate back to U.S.
dollars.
We received just over USD $169 million plus the accrued interest through the closing date.
We will recognize non-recurring income of $3 million for FFO purposes from this transaction in the second quarter.
In addition our CAD $10 million bond investment in Whiterock was paid off at par in April yielding a non-recurring gain of approximately $1 million.
The early repayment of these investments will impact recurring earnings by approximately $0.03 for the balance of 2011.
We're pleased to report the non-retail investments are down to just over $600 million as compared to $1.2 billion at the beginning of 2009 with more than half of the remaining balance attributable to the urban assets primarily in New York and Philadelphia and in our investment at InTown Suites which we are currently marketing.
Our capital recycling program is also underway.
Since the beginning of the year we have sold 6 assets 4 of which were non-strategic retail assets for gross proceeds of approximately $36 million and debt repayment of $11 million.
We have over 40 non-strategic retail properties that are currently being marketed.
Our objective is to raise approximately $150 million from non-strategic asset sales during 2011.
The proceeds from these sales will be used to acquire properties in our target markets.
We have acquired 4 shopping centers and [indiscernible] parcels so far this year for gross investment of $103 million including debt assumption of $25 million.
Our cash investment to date has been approximately $55 million.
On the balance sheet and liquidity front there too we have made progress.
We finished the quarter with net debt to recurring EBITDA of 6.2x compared to 6.3x at the end of the year and 7.4x at the beginning of 2010.
With the proceeds from the Valad and Whiterock bond dispositions we have reduced the balance of our $1.7 billion revolving credit facilities to less than $80 million outstanding today.
Our consolidated debt maturities for the balance of 2011 totaled approximately $100 million and less than $400 million for 2012.
Our revolving credit facilities are scheduled to mature in 2012 but we plan to renew the facilities by the end of this year.
Based on our current capital plan and excellent liquidity position barring a major transaction a trip to the capital market is not expected in the near term.
If needed the capital markets are fully functioning again with Credit Suisse continuing to tighten.
The CMBS lenders are back.
Portfolio lenders are active and the commercial bank market for term loans and revolving credit facilities is operating well.
We are reaffirming our recurring FFO guidance range of $1.17 to $1.21 per share.
Again this guidance range does not include impairments for non-recurring income.
Assumptions in determining the guidance range include: occupancy improvement of 50 to 75 basis points by year end; increased same-site NOI of 1% to 3% which includes the combined U.S.
Canadian and Latin America operations; incremental contribution of $8 million to $10 million from the Latin America portfolio; further acquisition activity with dispositions occurring in the latter half of the year; and the impact of the early repayment of the Valad and Whiterock bonds.
Lastly yesterday we declared our quarterly common dividend of $0.18.
This represents an annualized rate of $0.72 per common share and a conservative FFO payout ratio of approximately 60%.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Glenn.
I'd like to touch on a few areas and move quickly to leave more time for your questions.
As Dave said we continue to be encouraged by the ongoing positive signs in the portfolio in terms of space demand and stabilizing markets and the consequent effect on net operating income growth and value creation opportunities.
And since I'm always advising against reading too much in support of the leasing statistic.
I guess that holds true even when the numbers look good.
That said this quarter's 5.1% jump in new leasing spreads was certainly a positive development especially as it was driven by major new lease signings from Wal-Mart Kohl's and Marshalls.
Looking back at the past 12 months the leasing spread statistic represents a mix of 3 drivers specifically: large anchor boxes with below-market brands being brought up to today's levels with meaningful upside; second the junior box category which had the highest demand but were affected by the roll-down from boxes of specific retailers that went into bankruptcy; and lastly small shops which we’re  still seeing negative spread result as high rents from the leases of 4 or 5 years ago are being marked at today's levels.
As Glenn mentioned we had another positive quarter of same-site net operating income and within the range we suggested during our last call.
We decided it made sense to bring further clarity to the impact of our primary international activities on NOI performance as non-U.S.
shopping centers contributed almost 14% of NOI for the quarter and continues to increase.
The combined 6.7% same-site NOI increased and our non-U.S.
numbers added 60 basis points to the composite number.
Currency rate changes had a substantial effect on those numbers but in turn that speaks to the economic fundamentals relative to the U.S.
There was a modest decline in occupancy of 20 basis points from the preceding quarter from both the pro rata and full basis without regard to ownership.
With about half of the drop associated with post-holiday small-store fallout and the other half related to 2 big-box vacancies at certain non-strategic assets.
Year-over-year however gross occupancy was up 40 basis points and that underscores the slow and steady progress in the portfolio.
The quarterly and past year metrics point to I think a more important dimension that being the difference in performance between our strategic and non-strategic shopping centers.
The difference in occupancy is stark: 93.7% for the strategic assets which was flat from last quarter versus 84.1% for the non-strategic assets which actually declined by 170 basis points.
The combined spread on new leases and renewals was a positive 2% for the strategic assets and a negative 2% for the non-strategic assets with similar gaps experienced throughout the past couple of years.
It reinforces to me the program that is underway to shed these underperforming assets over time.
Glenn mentioned where we stand in terms of activity so far and pruning these assets will become more important in the future so we can focus on value opportunity at our strategic properties.
Overall the operating environment continues to show slow and steady improvement but again driven by the relative supply and demand dynamics with national and regional retailers pursuing space either increasing market share or entering new markets.
Rents are slowly rising at the better-quality centers but capital continues to be a major part of the discussion to capture that new business.
For smaller spaces much of the demand is coming from franchisees and the reality that mom-and-pops are still struggling.
And as we have indicated regional differences are apparent with high barrier to entry markets such as Long Island Puerto Rico and our Canadian assets doing well.
While other areas such as parts of Florida and Nevada are slower to recover economically due to the severe housing bust in those markets.
Likewise there are varying degrees of operating performance with many of the soft good discount formats such as T.J.
Maxx Marshalls and Ross showing improved sales results while other areas such as office supplies are showing decline.
Bottom line is that in the face of the uneven recovery and long-term effects of e-commerce on space needs and retailer strategies the better positioned asset with the best co-tenancy and stronger markets barriers to entry will win the battle.
Since our last earnings call Borders filed Chapter 11 and Blockbuster announced that it's being acquired by DISH Network.
Our exposures are relatively small.
At this point 1/2 of the 16 Borders leases at Kimco owned centers have been rejected aggregating about 175 000 square feet and about $1.6 million of Kimco's proportionate share of base rents.
While that will impact our second quarter occupancy level we have been active -- have active deals working on 5 of the 8 spaces.
It's too early to give solid estimate of rent levels and I expect some roll-down from the Borders weighted average rent of $18 but not nearly as severe as the Linens and Circuit City experience.
And with respect to our Mexican operations we've made it plain that 2011 is an important year in terms of leasing and growth and earnings contribution.
As to the first quarter results so far so good.
The team signed a 175 000 square foot of leases in the quarter on track to the full year 700 000 square foot target.
For the Mexico portfolio total NOI increased $3.5 million for the quarter on a year-over-year basis underscoring the tick-up in the leasing momentum that began in the latter half of 2010.
And with that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
I would like to share with you a few observations on Internet sales and its effect on our retail centers.
The Internet and eCommerce will continue to have a growing effect on all types of retail users.
Key advantages include pricing partially due to the avoidance of sales tax of many transactions and the convenience to buy goods over the Internet.
The largest impact will be to electronics music video and bookstores.
There will be far less of an impact on supermarkets discounters warehouse clubs off-price retailers dollar stores Home Depot Lowe's et cetera.
Thus far no one is ordering lumber on the Internet.
Looking at the composition and the diversification of our top 50 tenants gives us some comfort that our exposure to the incursion of the Internet is on a relative basis somewhat muted.
Our 3 largest tenants are Home Depot TJX and Wal-Mart.
In addition I believe we are largest land lord of Costco.
Adding to the impact of the Internet many retailers are trying to become more efficient and are reducing their store sizes accordingly.
We have been aware of this trend and have been focusing on some time for new users to utilize space in our centers.
As an example demand for medical space dental clinics urgent care facilities vocational schools community colleges and entertainment-focused businesses have all been increasing.
We are one of the few real estate companies that have attendees at dental conventions where we encourage new dentists to begin their practices in our centers.
There has also been an increased interest by all ages who belong to fitness clubs and the demand for this space has been increasing.
On an optimistic note we expect very few new retailer developments in the United States not withstanding that our population grows by 3 million people a year.
At the same time retailers have an increased appetite for additional space and this will reduce our vacancies over time.
What is most exciting for me are the Kimco regional presidents  and the teams we have in the field.
Their enthusiasm is contagious.
I want to thank Mike Pappagallo Paul Puma Tom Simmons John Visconsi Conor Flynn Rob Nadler Kelly Smith Mike Melson and many others.
They have great energy creativity integrity that will help us achieve our goals.
And with that we are all ready to answer any rational questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question today from Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Milton maybe just starting with you in terms of just the small shop space overall.
You mentioned obviously -- or Dave mentioned the continuing I guess negative spreads there.
But what do you think it's going to take to stabilize the small shop space? I mean are you looking for sort of stabilization in the housing market? Is it going to be continued rent reductions or rent relief? And I guess just a separate question could you give us some sense of the pricing you're seeing for the assets that you have for sale the non-strategic? Sure Jay.
First the amount of a local store exposure is relatively small on total basis.
The issue in my mind will be the demand will come back when the demand for housing comes back.
Housing is such an important part of our GDP.
It's furniture appliances you name it.
And until the housing market is absorbed I think we will continue to have issues on local stores because when my housing market comes back employment will come back.
And employment is -- and jobs are necessary for local stores.
So that I think that is the issue and I -- it will take time but I'm relatively optimistic.
In so far as the pricing we'll ask Dave or Mike.
Yes.
So far Jay we've -- in terms of in assets we've sold because of the vacancies it's a relative loss NOI.
It's not been that severe so it pencils in to about a 6% to 7% cap rate but that somewhat a false positive because there have been some vacant centers.
Our expectation is that these centers will go anywhere from the 8% to 10% range depending on where they are and the tenant base which I think underscores the difference between what you've been hearing us and others saying in terms of the higher-quality centers where they're being priced at where -- cap rates that start the 6% are pretty much the norm versus the growing difference between B- and C-quality centers.
We'll take our next question from a Christy McElroy with UBS.
Last quarter you gave guidance for U.S.
same-store NOI growth of 0% to 2% in 2011.
This quarter it's 1% to 3% for the combined portfolio.
Have your same-store growth expectations changed for the U.S.
at all? And to what extent do you expect non-U.S.
to contribute to the growth rate? I think you said it was 60 bps in Q1? Yes I would comment that in terms of the U.S.
we have not changed our points of view and in terms of where we wind up.
And then I think that the reason for the change overall is simply because by now adding the international numbers which are going to cause an uptick of 50-or-so basis points we've ranged it a little bit higher.
We'll take our next question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
I've just got a currency question.
You benefited on the sale of the Valad notes from the strong Aussie dollar and the weak U.S.
dollar.
And you're obviously benefiting from your Canadian exposure which you can see in the NOI.
I'm curious how you're thinking about the U.S.
dollar and if there's a temptation to maybe sell additional assets.
Or are you still confident that there's ways that you can structure up deals and you still could be active in investing in offshore markets? Well I guess my take on the -- weakening the U.S.
dollar again it makes foreign buyers even more interested in coming into the U.S.
market.
We've seen a tremendous demand by foreign pension funds and life insurance companies to reenter the market for high-quality retail properties.
So in some ways I think it's going to strengthen the market.
I think we remain as scheduled in terms of what we're selling.
We have identified a certain number of non-strategic retail assets and they are in the market.
And we're hoping between the improving CMBS market and the high demand for hard assets today that are cash flowing we will do okay on those assets.
And Mike you may want to comment...
Well I'll just take it on the other way to Quentin's question with respect to whether the currency shifts are making us change our thinking about growing internationally and increasing our investment.
And certainly it makes things a little more pricey on a U.S.-equivalent basis.
But I think as we look at international markets we're thinking about it for the long term.
So currency by itself will not preclude us from further investment.
What is precluding us and I think David mentioned it often particularly with respect to Canada is the expensiveness of the product even in local currency terms and the lack of availability of product.
So I think the single important is that we continue over the long term to think about increasing our non-U.S.
exposure.
But everything needs to kind of fall into place and currency is just one of those dimensions.
Got it.
We'll take our next question from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
In your earnings release you mentioned an improvement in the InTown Suites performance.
I wonder how would you characterize the NOI relative to peak? How far are we off peak at this point then? I'm glad you brought that up because I would like to complement the InTown Suites management because we've seen a tremendous improvement on the operational side and the team is doing a wonderful job.
My rough guess is we’re 5% to 10% lower than the peak levels in terms of the EBITDA on the operations.
It's improving rapidly.
We get weekly flash reports on the RevPAR and it really is nice to see it escalating in terms of its improvement.
The business is doing very well.
To update everybody on the call on where we are in the marketing process we're in a second round of bidding activity.
We'll know more within the next 30 days how that is going and how aggressive these bidders are.
We will then consult with our partners and we'll make a decision on going forward or not at that time.
What is comforting to us is the revenues that are coming from that investment are producing very nice FFO for us at this point.
We'll go next to Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Can you just break out the same-store NOI in Mexico and Canada in local currency? The local currency in there was about 40 basis points.
The currency impact is about 40 basis points of the increase.
So 40 of the 60? Yes.
Okay.
All right.
We'll go next to Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
I guess Dave you had kind of touched on my InTown Suites question but could you just talk a little bit about the timing of some of the acquisitions that might be in the pipeline and just remind us what's in guidance for acquisitions and dispositions for the balance of the year? Sure.
As I mentioned so far we've been successful acquiring perhaps 1/2 dozen properties so far this year but the activity has been on a one-off basis.
We have a number of lines in the water.
We anticipate closing at least a couple more in the quarter.
We're in the game on looking at bigger transactions but there's certainly nothing that we could account on at this point nor do we have that -- a large portfolio in our numbers or in M&amp;A transaction and our numbers.
Glenn what's our total that we...
We targeted for our capital plan to put out our capital about $250 million and we had sales roughly about the same.
So on a cash basis we would net pretty well down south.
That translates to quite a bit of buying power if you think about it because many of our acquisitions are done with institutional partners and the properties are leveraged.
So if you assume a 50-50 deal 250 of equity and 50% leverage that's $1 billion of assets for this year which I think is a reasonable target.
Right.
We have laid out on the non-strategic to raise again proceeds of roughly $150 million.
Separately we had a target of about another $150 million $200 million on the non-strategic assets.
So we're pretty well on plan with that with the sale of the Valad and the Whiterock bonds.
Then I guess Dave are you just -- are comfortable at -- maybe your partners are.
But if cap rates are down at the 6% level or the low-6s for high quality are you comfortable I guess putting $1 billion of yours and your partner's money into this kind of asset at that pricing? Well we'll see.
So far the assets we bought they all have a story to it.
And the average cap rate has been significantly higher than 6% on what we bought and the debt rates have been attractive.
So we've locked in some pretty good leverage yields for ourselves and our partners.
But you're right.
We'll have to wrestle with it.
What we do look for is more than that headline cap rate.
We look at the built-in growth.
We look at redevelopment plays.
We look at the price per square foot if you will whether it's way below replacement cost.
So there's a lot of other met and barriers to entry obviously.
We look at a lot of other factors besides the headline cap rate.
But as I pointed out the market is heated.
We're determined to be careful.
If we do $1 billion we'll do $1 billion.
But if not that's not a problem and will not impact our numbers significantly.
We'll go next to Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Could you shed a little more color on the Mexico assets.
I noticed that the -- there were 4 assets moved into the stabilizers.
It seemed to bring the occupancy down quite a bit.
And they look like they're big assets.
So maybe if you could provide a little color on what's going on there? Rich as you remember probably we start to include the Mexico assets in occupancy after 2 years whether or not they've reached the "90% stabilization".
The recession hit Mexico like it hit the U.S.
And as we're coming out of it the leasing is accelerating quite well as Dave mentioned in the overall portfolio including the development assets.
It's up to 80% total.
You're -- so you're continuing to see some impact on occupancy over the next few quarters as we bring some of these Mexico develop -- previous developments into our occupancy number that are not yet 90% or 92% leased up.
But we do expect that that lease-up will get done over the next 18 months so that it will not be a drag on overall occupancy.
LLC</strong> Okay Barb.
So the 4 assets they appear to be big.
It's not an issue that they're maybe too big and you're having trouble leasing those? No.
No I just came back from a Mexico City visit and I came away with renewed confidence that the Mexico economy is picking up nicely and retailers are accelerating their plans including all kinds of U.S.-based retailers people -- and small tenants like Nike and McDonald's.
I mean they're just -- they're accelerating their activity in Mexico as well as the big guys that never slow down: the Home Depots and the Wal-Mart and so forth.
So our operating -- our local operating partners are feeling better and they're coming out of their recession the same way we are and perhaps at an accelerated pace.
I mean GDP is expected to be 5% in Mexico this year unemployment under 6%.
They're adding jobs like crazy.
Manufacturing's doing well.
$120 oil is obviously helping Mexico.
So notwithstanding that headline drug violence which does have an impact and does have -- international retailers have a pause and have a concern about Mexico.
But at the neighborhood level there is increasing activity and we feel good about achieving an accelerated lease-up.
And obviously that is helping us to move.
LLC</strong> Great.
We'll go next to David Wigginton with DISCERN.
Just a thing with Mexico.
Can you maybe just comment on investor demand there in light of the re-legislation that was passed last year? Have you seen an increase? And have yields come down at all as a result of that? And what is -- and how does that impact your -- I guess your operating strategy in the short and long term? Yes and yes.
And well it remains to be seen at our proper level.
I mean we're basically a long-term hold for Mexico.
I mean you look at our Wal-Mart ground leases with the cost of living increases every year and you feel good about holding these assets long term but you're right.
There's increasing investor appetite.
Cap rates have come down.
The Fibra UNO first public offering down there went remarkably well.
But I will remind everybody there was a lot of dollar-based rental revenues incorporated in that so I wouldn't read too much into that headline that cap rate because it wasn’t all peso revenues and retail assets that were effectively sold to the public there.
But anyway it's clear that property values are increasing.
Investors are taking another look at all of Latin America for that matter.
Brazil as you know has attracted a lot of interest and now it is spilling once again over to Mexico.
And some of the outside institutional investors that paused if you will have renewed their interest and we have been approached in a number of cases to bring in fresh partners in some of our deals.
And we may look at that over time especially if we see new opportunities.
And so this -- Dave this circling back to your comment about the drug violence there.
Is that not impacting the market overall just because of the locations where it is and it hasn't entered into the local neighborhood yet? Or is there another reason why people are still very optimistic and want to get into Mexico at this point in spite...
Drug violence or violent is an issue particularly in certain border areas but Mexico is a huge country with 106 million people and growing like crazy.
It's got a middle class that's growing.
Again as I said employment is doing well.
GDP is doing well.
Most of our centers are -- 95% I believe are grocery-anchored neighborhood centers.
These centers provide necessities and service-based businesses.
People feel very safe and comfortable going to these centers.
Almost all of our properties are in closed malls.
In Mexico they're air conditioned.
They're pleasant.
They're secure environments and the retailers are doing quite well in general.
There are a couple of centers we have Rio Bravo in particular which is a center of a current problem and leasing is delayed on a center like that.
But in general we have so many properties in Mexico and there's so many towns where the violence is not an issue.
It's just not the issue that the newspaper and the TV shows would make it out to be.
I'd like to mention it's somewhat of a U.S.
phenom.
More -- the European don't necessarily see it as such an impact in tourism because after all...
That's true.
I mean Fox News isn't on the Paris news stations every night.
And for instance foreign tourists in Cancun have not slowed down a bit whereas U.S.
tourists to Cancun have.
But again our sensors are neighborhood focused and the economy is doing well.
And there is a little bit of fear and apprehension by not only the local population but outside investors.
And we will not deny that that's not an impact but it doesn't take away from the fact that this country is the 12th largest economy in the world headed towards being the 5th largest economy in the world.
And somebody like Wal-Mart is opening a store a day in this country.
We'll go next to Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
I just had a question on the comments about the alternate uses that you're looking for for some of the retail space as a way to mitigate the impact of the Internet stealing some sales.
Can you just discuss what you're seeing in terms of returns on those types of properties at the -- on the actual lease itself as well as on the overall shopping center? And to my earlier comment that generally what we're seeing in the environment whether it's core retail or whether it's alternative use in that capital requirement continued to increase retailers and others are demanding more dollars to get into -- to get them into the spaces.
So that said I would not necessarily differentiate materially a retail versus an alternative use just to recognize that it’s both requiring capital.
I think the net effective rents if you want to use that term has stabilized from where they were from the declines that were being experienced over the past few years.
That said they're still probably lower than they clearly were lower than at the height of the market 4 years ago.
Okay.
So no discernible difference then.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Laura Clark with Green Street Advisors.
Going back to your comments about non-traditional tenants how much of the center do you feel comfortable turning to this type of a tenant? And do you have a dedicated team going after these types of tenants? Laura I wouldn't specifically say that we have a guideline or a percentage.
It's going to be very locational specific.
There are some assets that we have that -- where essentially retail had shifted away so we have no limitations on putting it to alternative use.
There are other situations where we will change our strategy.
There's one particular project in Orlando where it was initially meant to be primarily retailed with some office and kind of a whiff of a lifestyle-ish type center on a smaller scale.
But what we've seen is that medical -- our office and medical users have become the dominant force.
So we are shifting our thoughts and our strategies.
And that conceivably over the next few years it could be substantially all medical use because that's where the demand is.
So there are no particular limitations or requirements on that.
What was the second part of your question? I apologize.
If you have a dedicated team.
Oh a dedicated team.
We don't have a dedicated team per se but what we do have with respect to our national portfolio a review program that we have certain individuals who will target and will focus their energies on these alternative uses Milton had mentioned of medical and the dental users.
So we reach out whether those users whether it's the for-profit colleges whether it's government users.
And we will target our initiatives to try and garner information and reach out to the right constituents to through-put some increased activity and then deliver that information to our regional operating teams.
All right.
We'll go next to Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
In terms of the increments the additional investments you're looking at for your acquisitions could you characterize it in saying you're looking more at community centers or smaller format neighborhood centers? And is there a pricing differential between the higher-quality asset today in each of those buckets? Mike we couldn't hear you too well but I think the effective part of your question was the difference between neighborhood and community centers and perhaps big-box centers and we're seeing opportunities to purchase both.
As we've mentioned we're trying to make sure we focus on the higher quality.
In terms of a difference of cap rates generally the grocery anchored especially if it's a high-quality grocer is commanding a little bit lower cap rate than the big-box centers.
In our mind though that's almost an arbitrage opportunity for us because we're very comfortable.
If it's the best big-box center in a market it's something worth going after.
And to the extent it's trading at a little bit higher cap rate than a grocery-anchored neighborhood center that's okay with us.
I think it is fair to say there's still a difference out there in terms of pricing on the grocery-anchored versus a big-box all else being equal but I can't emphasize enough that all of these centers are different in so many ways: how much local space is involved; the quality of the big-box centers the market that it’s in and so forth.
For instance at Long Island which is a barrier-constrained market we're very comfortable paying a very low cap rate out here because the long-term prognosis for rent growth is very good.
Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
We'll go next to Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Yes just one quick follow up.
Glenn can you just address the guidance range given the $0.03 of dilution from the Valad sale? What is offsetting that in terms of maintaining your guidance? Yes.
I mean you see the improvement coming really in both the U.S.
portfolio and within the Mexico portfolio.
So we came in a little bit better than we were expecting and some budget in our first quarter and feel good about where that's headed.
So that's the bulk of the offset.
There's also some currency benefit that will come on Mexico and Canada that adds a little bit to it as well.
So in total they almost balance out.
So we're comfortable with the current range.
So while you maintain your U.S.
same-store guidance range you might be more biased towards the high end now.
Is that fair to say? I think we're comfortable with the current rates where we are knowing that we're going to have the $0.03 impact from the sales that have occurred.
So we'll leave it there for now.
All right.
We'll go next to Christy McElroy with UBS.
It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
I'm not sure if this is for Milton or Dave or Mike.
Can you talk a little bit about Kmart's last years and giving it some unique insights to their operating history.
How long in your experience can a retailer survive with its store count after seeing a decade of declining sales? Well it comes to 2 parts.
First and foremost the survival depends on the balance sheet.
And what -- the balance sheet of Sears is relatively strong that's not -- will not offset the fact that their stores have not been attracting the customers so that I think that they have the ability to hang in for a long time with that balance sheet.
They also have real estate that they own at relatively low rents.
So I think they'll be here.
They have balance sheet.
They have market caps.
The equity is what rate? It's $4 billion.
It's right at $4 billion or $5 billion and so they'll hang.
But Ross you know as well as anyone we have seen retailers come and go and I'm thinking one of our Sears locations where we've had -- we have a 5th tenant each time we got higher rents.
So we are in the real estate business and you got to watch what your rents are and how does that compare to market et cetera.
But I think their balance sheet is strong.
I would echo Milton.
Their occupancy costs are low so they've got a cushion.
And they've got a margin and they're using that margin.
And they're focusing on exclusive brands.
They know they can't compete with Wal-Mart or Target but they have Craftsman and they have Lands' End.
They have Martha Stewart Kenmore.
And I wish they were better at promoting their brands but they have that as an edge.
Okay.
We'll go next to Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
LLC</strong> I just have one quick question.
Following on the comment you made Mike about leasing costs and given all the challenges in terms of some of the tenants downsizing and the changes in use as well as the still competitive small-shop leasing environment leasing cost per foot in the quarter were a little bit higher than they have been.
And I guess is it fair to say that what you're saying is that we should expect that number to continue to be fairly high throughout the year? I would say Jim that when you're comparing it say over the past few years it will be elevated.
I can't predict exactly where it's going to go and if it's going to top out at a particular level but I think you hit the nail on the head in terms of the exit.
You know our disclosures that [indiscernible].
Now the difference -- interestingly enough the difference between now and 2 years ago is that the money needed to be put out but the rents weren't being paid for it at least at this point because of the supply and demand dynamics that the retailers are in fact paying for that TI.
And now even more importantly it becomes underlying being -- or analyzing the retailer their ability to pay that rent over the long term and how that is positioned in the center.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Good.
We'll go next to Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Yes it's Michael Bilerman.
Dave in your opening comments you talked a little bit about pursuing portfolio deals and you also talked about the acquisition market I guess getting overheated for higher-quality assets.
And I was wondering if you could just flush out sort of a little bit on the portfolio side and what you're doing.
And also talk a little bit about the capital that's in the marketplace today and how you're finding sovereign wealth and pension capital and how you're thinking about trying to monetize that a little bit in this environment.
Okay that's a lot of questions built into one.
First of all I'd correct it a little bit.
I didn't say overheated.
I said heated.
So I don't think it's to the point where you want to say you're not a player.
Clearly prices are high and there's lots of interest in the retail sector again particularly for the higher quality and we're now seeing it start to move down a scale.
When you finish 17th out of 30 bidders you begin to look a little harder at perhaps a B market or a B property so we're starting to see that.
In terms of either M&amp;A or portfolio traction -- portfolio transactions because of our size and our relationships we are having an opportunity to take a look at some of these pending things.
And obviously if you are a private owner with a large portfolio that's considering going public you're also looking at the possibility of selling that outright as a way to maximize price.
And there are -- there is a discount involved in going public if maximizing your price is where you want to be versus being just a public company with other benefits.
You're certainly beginning to show those portfolios out there as an alternative to what the bankers are telling you about going public.
So we've seen some of those in the market and we have evaluated those.
We are wrestling in some cases with quality in the markets involved.
We've said 2 things: We want to upgrade our portfolio; And secondly we want to concentrate on our core markets.
And so in some cases the portfolios that we've been shown do not meet that test.
And if it doesn't meet the test for us we don't and we are not comfortable bringing in an institutional partner.
But we're very pleased that we're continuing to have those opportunities and we'll see what this year brings over time.
And size wise on those? I mean these opportunities that are coming in talking in a...
There's a -- they are a large range 5-property portfolios and up if you will.
Okay.
We'll go next to Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Just another question on the urban assets.
Can you give us an update there? I know it's just a couple of hundred million but just curious on the process and timing there are well.
Sure.
And Jay I apologize I don't think we answered one of your questions from the first round in terms of our -- the pricing on our non-strategic asset sales.
But in general we're looking at somewhere around 8% to 9% in terms of...
That's answered.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
In terms of the urban assets it remains part of our non-core portfolio and we are trying very hard to move those.
We're having some progress in the Chicago market and the Boston market.
The Philadelphia looks to be longer term.
It's fabulous property.
Yes.
I guess the bones of the real estate that we have are very good.
We're comfortable with them.
Many of these properties were purchased as redevelopment plays and that market just has not come back yet.
So it's not the right time to sell them.
We do have one or 2 on the market and we'll see what time brings.
But I think you'll see us probably sell our Chicago assets before we sell the Philadelphia assets.
But we're determined over time and at the right price to move those assets.
And if you win the right acquisitions what sort of increase in cap rates are you assuming say over a 5-year time horizon? 50 basis points.
Okay.
So that hasn't changed at all? No.
Okay.
The New York assets are fabulous.
You have to look at 21st Street and some of them they really -- I think we bought it right.
We'll have a wonderful exit.
There's a solid partner there.
So I think we will all be pleased with the end result.
Our last question today will go to Vincent Chao.
Just a quick follow-up on the comments about parts of Florida not doing as well.
Are their certain parts that are doing well? And if so what's really driving that? Yes.
Our part portfolio in Southern Florida or in Miami is -- has done and continues to do very well.
Where we see the most issue in our portfolio is more on the West Coast of Florida both Orlando as well as the West Coast of Florida just in terms of housing in terms of unemployment and where -- disposable income levels of rent.
So that's the area that we've had the toughest slog.
And it also is reflective of the fact that in that part of the state proportionately we have more small-store tenants.
And as a consequence of the -- what we talked about earlier we've had the most fallout in those small-store tenants.
But even in that respect Vincent things on the margin are getting better just slower than in other parts of the country which have rebounded quite nicely some of the markets I have mentioned earlier.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And I'll turn it back over to Dave Bujnicki for closing remarks.
Thanks Clayton.
And a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thanks again for participating.
Good day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Kimco Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's event is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce your speaker Mr.
Dave Bujnicki.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Felicia.
Thank you all for joining the Second Quarter 2011 Kimco Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call represent the company and management’s hopes intentions beliefs expectations or projections of the future which are forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco’s operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we will request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
Feel free to return to the queue if you have additional questions and if we have time at the end of the call we will address your questions.
With that I now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for calling in today.
While worrisome clouds remain in the U.S.
and around the world ranging from the European debt crisis to continued U.S.
challenges in housing and employment and deficit spending the U.S.
economic recovery continues its positive momentum and the retail industry is once again expanding.
A recent RBC  analysis is particularly encouraging as it notes that it's research base of 2 200 retailers planned a total of approximately 73 000 new store openings over the next 24 months.
This is expected to translate into increases in effective rents occupancy and leasing spreads in our industry.
At Kimco we are very pleased with our second quarter results and we believe that they represent solid and steady progress on our key 2011 objectives.
Increasing occupancy is just under 93% same-store NOI growth exceeding 3% and positive leasing spreads of 2.1% all combined to show very solid second quarter portfolio of vital signs.
Mike and Glenn will provide further details.
But overall we are confident and optimistic about the balance of the year and our full year operating results.
Permit us to take one final vow for completing the sale of the Valad bond at a price exceeding our basis.
That done we are turning our full attention to the disposition of the InTown portfolio as InTown represents the last major piece of our non-retail portfolio.
While no bidder achieved the minimum pricing level established by the joint venture partnership in the first round of bids 3 potential purchasers are still fully engaged in due diligence and are trying to reach the necessary price level.
We are also encouraged because the InTown portfolio itself continues to improve dramatically in terms of RevPAR growth and EBITDA metrics.
On an annualized basis the portfolio EBITDA is now within 6% of its prerecession high and our annualized FFO return exceeds 20% on our equity investment.
The InTown portfolio like the rest of the extended stay industry is experiencing some substantial rate and occupancy increase.
In addition to the possible sale of the InTown portfolio this year we anticipate the sale or repayment through refinancing of an additional $75 million of non-retail investments over the balance of the year.
As a result our non-retail portfolio should finish the year at less than 4% of our total gross asset through property sales refinancings partner buyouts and the conversion into pari passu joint ventures.
The retail preferred equity portfolio has also declined from 297 000 125 properties to 136 000 081 properties over the past 18 months.
With respect to new business we continue to acquire high-quality retail properties in our core market in a deliberate patient and disciplined manner.
So far this year we have closed on 7 properties totaling $165 million for both our institutional joint ventures and our own portfolio.
Additionally we currently have a firm pipeline of 10 additional property acquisitions totaling a further $190 million.
Internationally Canada is performing wonderfully with portfolio occupancy of 97% strong currency low mortgage rates and continued U.S.
retailer expansion into the Canadian market.
Illustrating this trend our RioCan Kimco joint venture owns 9 Dollar stores of which 8 will be converted to new Target stores and one will become a new Wal-Mart store.
Ed Sonshine and his team did a terrific job in negotiating these transactions and converting 9 out of 9 Dollar stores in our joint portfolio.
Bravo Ed.
In Mexico we are also benefiting from a strengthening currency and making good progress in leasing our new retail development.
We even approved our first new project this year a small development project in Mexico City 94% pre-leased to Wal-Mart.
Despite the violent headlines the Mexican economy is strong with 2011 GDP growth expected to exceed 4%.
The unemployment rate is 5.4% and the country has added 400 000 new jobs so far this year.
U.S.
and Mexican retailers are both expanding and leasing activity is finally increasing in small store space which has been very soft for the past 2 years.
Overall we remain committed to our strategic goals of improving our portfolio metrics and financial results while selling in a measured way both our non-retail assets and selected nonstrategic retail properties.
And then using the resulting proceeds to acquire additional high-quality shopping centers in our core markets and reducing leverage over time.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Glenn to discuss the details of our quarterly results.
And then Mike will provide an operations overview and Milton will then close with his perspective.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning.
The positive results produced during the second quarter are a continuation of our progress toward our strategic objectives which Dave has just articulated.
As we reported last night recurring FFO per share was $0.30 for the second quarter compared to $0.28 last year.
$0.30 level excludes $0.02 or $8 million of noncash impairment charges attributable to the disposition of certain nonstrategic retail assets and $0.01 or $4.6 million of nonrecurring income primarily related to the monetization of certain non-retail assets including the Valad convertible bond we have previously announced.
Our recurring FFO which increased 5% from last year was fueled by positive NOI growth of $11 million or 7.5% from the shopping center portfolio.
About half of the growth was from acquisitions and incremental growth from our Latin America portfolio as lease-up continues and the other half from organic growth in the U.S.
portfolio with all our regions beating our plan for the quarter.
Now although not included in FFO we did sell 3 other nonstrategic retail assets which produced gains of $4.7 million.
We will continue to focus on recurring FFO which excludes both nonrecurring income and noncash impairment charges.
As Dave mentioned our key shopping center operating metrics: occupancy same-site NOI and leasing spreads were all positive for the quarter.
Occupancies for the combined portfolio without regard to ownership percentage increased to 93.1% up 30 basis points from last quarter and 30 basis points from a year ago.
Looking just at the U.S.
portfolio occupancy reached 92.9% up 40 basis points from last quarter and up 50 basis points from a year ago.
Same-site NOI increased 3.1% from the combined portfolio including the U.S.
Canada and Latin America.
The U.S.
same-site growth was 2.6% representing the fifth consecutive positive quarter to this metric.
Leasing spreads were also positive with an overall 2.1% increase from new leases renewals and options.
Mike will provide more color on that portfolio in just a moment.
Our previously stated capital recycling program has also gained momentum during the quarter with the disposition of 11 nonstrategic assets providing proceeds of $48.5 million.
Those proceeds were quickly put to work with the acquisitions of 2 fully-owned assets and one property in a joint venture.
The gross acquisition costs was $75 million subject to an aggregate debt of $43 million on 2 of the property.
We are currently in contract negotiations to sell 10 other nonstrategic retail assets and actively marketing over 40 other properties.
We remain comfortable with our target range of $150 million in nonstrategic dispositions for 2011.
We continue our focus on the monetization of the non-retail portfolio which now stands at just over $600 million and we expect several other non-retail preferred equity investments to be liquidated by the end of the year providing an additional amount of $75 million.
Our balance sheet metrics strengthened further during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with net debt to recurring EBITDA at 6x compared to the 6.3x at the beginning of the year a level we expected to achieve by the end of 2012.
Our liquidity position is in excellent shape with over $1.7 billion of availability on our credit facilities and our capital plan is on track and with less than $90 million in maturities for the balance of the year we do not foresee the need for a public capital raising in the near term.
With regard to the joint venture programs we have been successful in refinancing the maturing debt in the various ventures.
We have closed on 8  mortgages for $147 million in proceeds and have another 4 expected to close in early August for another $70 million at rates ranging from 4.68% to 5.79% of 10-year money.
Although spreads have widened recently mortgage financing remains available at attractive rates from insurance companies commercial banks and CMBS.
As for guidance as we have attained recurring FFO of $0.59 per share for the first half of the year we are comfortable reaffirming our recurring FFO guidance range of $1.17 to $1.21 per share.
Again this guidance range does not include noncash impairments or nonrecurring income.
Similar to last quarter assumptions in determining guidance include occupancy improvements of 50 basis points by year end same-site NOI growth of 1% to 3% from the combined portfolio incremental contribution from the Latin America portfolio of approximately $8 million and additional acquisition activity with dispositions in the latter half of the year.
This guidance range incorporates the recent impact resulting from the early repayment of Valad and Whiterock bonds.
One last point yesterday we declared our quarterly common dividend of $0.18 per share.
We continue to have a conservative FFO payout ratio of approximately 60%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Glenn.
Good morning.
We are obviously quite pleased that the direction of the shopping center portfolio is making as evidenced by the array of portfolio metrics recorded for the quarter.
The improvement on occupancy the continuation of positive same-site NOI results and the stabilizing leasing spreads not only reflect the shifts in shopping center fundamentals over the past year but also the outstanding efforts of the Kimco organization.
By now the takeaways from the shopping center convention in May have all been reported and analyzed by the research and investment community.
But nonetheless it bears repeating that demand from national retailers continues and remains strong and the absence of new supply has improved prospects for filling existing second and third generation space.
The appetite to expand is most notable for the smaller format users including franchise-based businesses and national chains such as  Anna's Linens and ULTA Cosmetics each of whom are looking to double their  store count over the next 2 years.
Yet despite this healthier environment it seems that there are always clouds that confront retailing and in turn challenges for shopping center owners and this period is no exception.
There's no shortage of the question about the effect of online retailing on brick-and-mortar space the trending for smaller footprints for many box retailers the difficulty of mom-and-pops to access credit to form and build new business concerns over cost inflation and the potential impact on operating margins in the second half of the year all overlaid by an uneven recovery stubborn unemployment and even scarier reminders of the people in Washington running this country.
There are no silver bullets to solve these issues.
To deal with the challenges our approach is simple: invest in and extract as much value from our core group of assets that have the greatest ability to generate stable and increasing cash flows in any environment; find external opportunities that have similar potential; and eliminate those assets that in our judgment have  more risks than rewards over the long term.
In the U.S.
portfolio I am particularly encouraged by the number of value creation opportunities starting to percolate from our existing property base.
In addition to the projects that are active we are seeing an increase in opportunities in the evaluation stage as well as situations where the key anchors leases have been signed and the approval and resultant re-merchandising process has begun.
For example I'm sure you've all heard us talk about the potential in our portfolio in the New York City borough of Staten Island.
The redevelopment of the Richmond Avenue site with a brand-new Target store and an overhaul of the rest of the center will begin construction later this year after 2.5 year of planning and entitlement process.
At another location in the northern part of the island we signed a lease with Stop &amp; Shop for a new 55 000 square-foot store filling the existing big-box vacancy in the center and absorbing the balance of the vacant space.
It's a very long approval process in New York City but the plan calls for an opening in early 2014 and will include a complete upgrade in renovation of the center.
In yet another center in the southeast part of the island a potential redevelopment of the center is on the drawing board and targeted upon the expiration of the anchor tenant's lease an anchor paying $2.26 in rent about 6 to 7x below market.
I  call out these 3 relocations as the type of opportunities we're seeing in our core markets.
Similar projects are on the drawing board in Palm Beach Gardens in Live Oak Florida Farmingdale New York Columbia Maryland and New Bedford New Jersey.
And while the redevelopment stories are the most interesting core leasing activity and creative approaches to increase ancillary income sources are being applied across the entire portfolio.
And that's where I feel our superb operating team will make a big difference.
We're making investments right now at sophisticated energy management systems to reduce site operating costs as well as pursuing revenue through programs such as the solar program with 3 locations online and 3 others approved.
Being nimble and responding to mix changes will be critical to be successful.
A recent ICSC  publication pointed out that only about 2/3 of shopping center space consists of pure retail use and adding on the restaurants brings that up to about 79%.
Leaving about 1/5 of space occupied by non-retail uses.
I point that out as service tenants for nontraditional use can be an important part of a successful center.
And our tenant relations and portfolio review program will be increasingly focused on franchise service medical and other nontraditional use to make sure all bases are covered.
On the exit side of the equation the program to dispose of nonstrategic shopping centers has begun to pick up speed.
In addition to the 14 properties totaling 1.2 million square feet sold through the first half of the year as Glenn mentioned we have another 10 under contract negotiations.
And no surprise the profile of these assets is markedly different than our strategic pool.
The aggregate of assets sold and under contract since we kicked off this process last year has had a composite occupancy of 81% an average base rent of $8.21 and demographic statistics that are anywhere from 10% to 25% less than the corresponding statistics for the strategic portfolio.
While not an overnight process I'm confident that this program has the commitment of the entire company and will demonstrably change and enhanced the quality profile of the portfolio.
There's still a lot of work to do but interestingly the opportunity to increase earnings and operating cash flow and consequently value not only comes from executing on the individual asset strategies in our core shopping center assets but also the dislodging of low-yielding assets on the balance sheet.
Those certain assets accumulated at the last market peak as well as some of our shopping centers assets during the development cycle primarily in Mexico but also a few properties from the vestiges of our former merchant building business.
This opportunity either by increasing the operating yield of certain assets as well as recycling out of unproductive assets can be an additional source of earnings growth in the future.
Milton final comments? Well thanks Mike.
Well Dave Glenn and Mike have covered a great deal so I'll be very very brief.
When I reflect on the quarter the word that comes to mind is quality.
Quality of property is in quality of people.
The quality of a shopping center is tied at the hip with the ability of the center to generate a sustained and growing cash flow.
The historic results of our portfolio of property showing growing same-store NOI from tenant selling essential nondiscretionary items all from tenants that have strong credit and occupy spaces under long-term leases.
The quality of our people is a source of great pride to me.
Working with our associates we see their passion for the business.
Our regional presidents are solid energetic entrepreneurs and managers.
Dave Mike and Glenn have been with Kimco a long time.
Dave has been with us for over 11 years and I have the opportunity to work with Dave for many years before he joined Kimco while he was at GE Capital Real Estate.
Mike has been with us for approximately 14 years.
And Glenn for 16 years.
You may note that I have been at Kimco for a somewhat longer period.
So I am confident with the quality of our people and our portfolio and I know it will result in growing cash flow.
Growing cash flow leads to increase share value and that is why we are here.
And with that we'd be delighted to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to JJ Habermann (sic) [Jay Habermann] of Goldman Sachs.
It's Jay Habermann here everyone.
Just a question on the InTown Suites portfolio you mentioned the 3 potential purchasers at this point and EBITDA that's pretty close to where it was going back in time.
So I guess at the peak of the cycle.
Can you give us some sense of your expectation for the second half of the year? In terms of the EBITDA or in terms of getting the sale done? Getting the sale done.
We remain somewhat optimistic.
The first round bids as I mentioned did not come to that minimum price but they weren't that far away either.
So we're hoping to get one of these 3 bidders up to that minimum pricing level.
And we're hopeful what is particularly encouraging as I mentioned though at the property level it's doing better every single week and we're of course immediately giving that information to these 3 bidders to try to get them to that price.
So there's no guarantee we'll get there but we're going to be patient about it.
And in the meantime the FFO we're throwing off is very impressive.
And how close are they at this point to your minimum level? 8% 9%.
We'll go next to Christy McElroy of UBS.
I just wanted to follow up on Jay's question.
To what extent if it all have the financing markets impacted demand for in terms of the overall sale process of the InTown portfolio? And what's your sense for how price or market demand for hotel assets have changed over the last 3 to 6 months? I'm just trying to get a sense for the process and what the biggest challenges have been.
Well taking your second question first I think the market for hotels have picked up dramatically.
People recognize it as a hard asset that you can reprice everyday.
And with the hint of inflation down the road hotels have come into favors especially when you can buy way below replacement costs.
You are seeing a lot of activity in the hotel sector.
And now it was driven in my opinion first by the opportunity funds rather than the hotel companies themselves as they move to come in at low prices.
But now you're seeing across-the-board demand.
In terms of the availability of financing that's also increased.
Although I will say lenders in general are leery of hotels and they underwrite very conservatively.
And they're not going to be aggressive.
And I doubt this is the place where the CMBS market is going to focus as it comes back.
But there is financing available especially for the stronger companies that are buying hotels.
What gets the bidders to sort of your minimum level? Is it an overall improvement in fundamentals or incremental improvement in fundamentals? Or is it incremental improvement in financing markets? It's probably a combination of both.
What we're hoping is they look at this hockey stick trend that we're seeing at the property level.
And for the first time in years we've been able to push rate as well as occupancy.
So driving that RevPAR now is proven rate demand.
I'll just give you since we've had a couple of questions on InTown I'll give you an interesting anecdote.
We're seeing a pickup in demand as AT&amp;T and Verizon spend literally billions of dollars building out their cellular network.
And so all these construction workers that are doing them are staying at InTown Suites and other extended stay facility for months on end.
And this is the type of tenant that we need to be able to drive rate.
So it's encouraging.
We'll go next to Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I guess it is to Glenn or Mike.
Concerning your 2011 guidance of 1% to 3% combined portfolio of same-store NOI.
I think year-to-date you're up just shy of about 2.5%.
So what do you see on the horizon that would cause your full year same-store NOI assumption to come in towards the low-end of your NOI guidance? The only reason why we dialed back and we kept that low end is because we have the immediacy of the Borders bankruptcy and liquidation.
So in the short term that will take a nick out of occupancy and cash flow.
We are confident that with respect to the Borders locations which prior to bankruptcy we had 16 that they will be filled in due course.
Interest and activity has been quite good.
We're very pleased with the level of interest from various box units and the like.
But in the short term Jeff it may take a little bite out of the range.
We'll go to David Wigginton of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> A topic that seems to be gaining momentum and has come up on recent mall conference calls is the demand for space the mall operators are seeing from traditional big-box retailers.
I guess to the extent that this is occurring in your markets can you maybe talk about the competition from malls for these types of tenants? And what your strategy is in response to that competition? And maybe just provide us with an  idea of how big of a potential threat that is to your business in the short to medium term? Well we have Rob Nadler President of our Central Region on the phone.
And Rob if you can just give a perspective because your portfolio obviously has many box retailers involved.
And just maybe some assessment on what you're seeing in the competitive landscape in terms of malls.
Mike are you guys hearing me? Yes.
All right terrific.
David I think what's occurring in the mall arena is the lack of development of outdoor retail strip retail is forcing the retailers in the boxes to be more adaptable and more flexible than they ever have been before.
Now that's playing out very well for our ability to backfill and our success in backfilling our boxes.
These guys I think will be first to tell you that their preference is still going to be the convenience and the low cost of being outside and not attached to the mall.
But I think that they're in some instances being forced so to speak to look at the mall as an expansion vehicle with the lack of new construction going on.
But the costs of operating within a strip and power center format is by far the superior way for these guys to continue to look to grow.
And as reported early our lease-up of our second-generation boxes has been very brisk over the last 12-month period.
So I think it's more a function it's probably happening more outside our core markets more in the secondary market than it is in the core market.
Because for the most part in the core markets the malls have held up fairly well they don't have the type of vacancy to be able to attract the big boxes.
And I would just add one perspective.
There's roughly 800 malls in the United States and depending on how you define the neighborhood the community shopping centers there's somewhere between 50 and 100 000 the neighborhood and community centers.
So it's not -- even if every single mall has the demand it's not going to change the dynamics of our industry.
We'll go next to Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was wondering when we think of leasing spreads especially just your results in the second quarter.
Do you think they're going to improve going forward from that level kind of hold at that level or weaken somewhat in the second half? Craig I think what we have continued to see is a continued improvement a forward march on negative territory trying to get it to positive territory.
If you look at the new leasing spread on a full 100% peak level we are positive or rather it's slightly negative.
But point being is we are definitely moving away from a very very tough environment.
And we're starting to see continued improvement in terms of renewal and even in leases.
In quarterly reporting there's always going to be those situations where there could be a big tick up or a big tick down because of a particular lease.
And I'm sure with some of the box vacancies with Borders coming that not every damn lease is going to be signed at a higher rent.
But the overall trends if you map it out from where we were in '09 to where we are today I think you're seeing a continued upward momentum and that trend line I think will continue and particularly as we get into '12 and early '13.
And then that's true for big boxes the heavy in-line space? Clearly for big boxes and I think that reflects the demand the supply-demand the balances that you just heard from Rob and you've been hearing from many of the strip center operators over the past year.
Small ticket leasing as we've all talked to that is still tougher.
But more and more is being isolated to certain geographic regions.
The last to recover in Kimco we are seeing some improvement.
But parts of Florida are still tough parts of the West Coast and Vegas are still tough.
So it's really the mix equation but even on the small ticket leasing I think you're starting to see rehabilitation from where we were a year and a half 2 years ago.
We'll go next to Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
You guys have been involved in a lot of retailer liquidations one way or the other.
And I just want to get your thoughts maybe on kind of what we would expect from the Borders lease dispositions and whether you may expect -- apart from kind of the direct exposure that you have in your portfolio where you may expect a period where there's a pause in the market as retailers look at the opportunities from the 250 300 or so new full-line stores that are out there and implications for kind of the second half there.
I don't see that the additional vacant space being put on the market with the Borders bankruptcy and liquidation is going to materially change the dynamics that we're experiencing in the marketplace.
Many of -- the same users the same retailers that we have been talking about now are expanding and are looking for a new space they're viewing this as opportunity.
So many of those box retailers that we gave names of during the Linens and Circuit bankruptcy are similarly looking at the Borders boxes.
There's even that new contingent I mentioned ULTA Cosmetics as an example where they may take 10 000 to 20 000 square feet.
There are some opportunities for us on single-store Borders to demise and split the premises and put in 2 users.
Point being is that I don't think the marketplace is going to be adversely affected or there's going to be any significant change in the dynamics because of this additional space in the Borders bankruptcy.
It all still comes down to the better locations and what the relative supply and demand dynamics are in a given market.
Mike I would just add one thing.
I think there's some retailers that have been waiting for this to happen.
So I think it's something that's building up for 6 months.
You have people like Barnes &amp; Noble do a one-year extension with us I think looking for opportunity for Borders and things like that.
So I think you've already have some buildup and some of these retailers waiting for this to happen so that will be positive.
That comment came from Ray Edwards who runs the Retailer Services business.
And he's well-schooled and well-known in the bankruptcy world.
And one final comment I think you've seen retailers that now that there are some nice location becoming available taking another look at their expansion plans and increasing those expansion plan somebody like Container Corp -- somebody like Container Stores is an example of a company that's going to do more this year because of the availability of these prime locations they're coming available.
So we don't expect this to be a big overhang on the market.
Do you think you'll end up optimizing many of yours that are something? So far in terms of the relative interest we've seen no.
A couple of pick me up situations.
We'll go next to Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just a question with all the recent headlines about private REITs and some of the scrutiny they've been receiving on their valuation metric.
Just curious if you guys see an opportunity to expand more wealth management relationships like the one you have with UBS? Do you think that the transparency that the public REITs provide provides an opportunity for you to do more UBS-type ventures? Well it certainly highlights the attractiveness of doing a problematic joint venture with a public REIT and an S&amp;P 500 REIT blue chip REIT so we would say yes it certainly enhances our ability to grow the Investment Management business.
But as a REIT we hate to see this publicity that's happening on the private REIT side.
L.P.</strong> But do you see more wealth management franchises seeking out partners such as yourselves? Not an immediate demand.
As we've mentioned in prior calls the demands so far has really come from foreign pension funds and foreign insurance companies as well as domestic institutions like that and sovereign.
Well we have not seen the private of wealth people particularly increase their demand.
It's going to take a lot to wean financial planners that are getting 7% or 8% commission away from that private REIT model in my opinion.
L.P.</strong> That doesn't sound surprising.
We'll go to Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> My question is actually a follow-up to that question.
Could you give us some color on the overall interest from partners on the equity side of things? And how that may have changed in say the past 6 months? And maybe who some of the most important partners are today in terms of interest in committing new joint venture capital? Yes.
The trend continues in terms of increasing amounts of interest by these life companies and pension funds in getting back into real estate.
What has amazed me is how quickly all of them exited 2 years ago and how they see the benefits of real estate being a hard asset being a cash-yielding asset that is far better as an alternative than corporate bonds or U.S.
Treasuries or other things.
I mean we can provide a pretty say 6% to 7% reasonably leverage yields for these institutions.
So we see it every day in terms of inquiries.
Our challenge is finding the products because pricing has increased the levels where it's difficult for us to justify joining some of these very frenetic bids.
We're trying to be disciplined and we're trying to be patient and trying to be very selective in what we buy for our own account and for our institutional partners.
But the demand side is strong.
LLC</strong> And Dave where would you say geographically that money is coming from? I assume it's international for the most part.
But what is the source specifically? Or maybe broadly of where that's coming from? Well on our particular case we have Canadian money we have Israeli money and we have German money coming through a Swedish bank SEB.
So those are 3 foreign sources that are active as we speak.
I'm sure other REITs have other foreign sources.
But if you think about it their currency buys a lot today in terms of U.S.
dollar assets.
They're looking at this as a particularly opportune time to buy U.S.
real estate because they can get a lot for their money and they're still buying at below replacement costs at a time when inflation may be coming back.
We'll go next to Cedric Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Just going back to small shop space for a little bit.
Mike can you give us some details in regards to some of the various drivers on small shops that you're absorbing? So when you think about demand from the mom-and-pops and demand from national retailers.
And perhaps touching a little bit on the financing environments as well for the mom-and-pops.
Well I think -- to the point Cedric is that the mom-and-pops really have not recovered all that much.
We're seeing some very slow improvement in some areas.
But really that's not where we're seeing the thrust of small store interest.
If you want to say less than 10 000 or less than 5 000 square feet however you want to play it.
Where we're seeing a lot of the interest is from more of the national chain from franchise franchisees franchise stores everything from the Five Guys Burgers to the auto parts dealerships et cetera that are really driving some increased demand for small store available space.
I don't think you're going to see a lot of mom-and-pop robust increase in space demand for a different period of time.
And that's what the point I was trying to emphasize about the improvement it becomes a gradual improvement in small store leasing is really coming from national and regional and franchise operators than it is for mom-and-pop.
And from a rent perspective does changing the type of rents you're able to change -- to charge if you have more national retailers? Or are we still in an environment where it's difficult to gain pricing power on small shop rents? It's of course it is market and property  specific.
But because of the relative expansion trends of the smaller users I would not say that rents are being severely pressured in that regard.
It comes down to what space you're trying to fill and the dynamics of filling a small store space in a center in Las Vegas versus a center in Long Island are dramatically different.
And I think that's reflected not only in the occupancy levels but also in the leasing spread level.
It is a bit of a binary situation depending on the market.
That said overall really what I was trying to convey on an overall basis because of the increase in that relative interest in demand from the smaller national users I'm somewhat optimistic that we over time can get that small ticket vacancy up.
We'll go to Michael Miller of JPMorgan.
I was wondering if you can talk a bit more about the difference in the rent spreads on the gross basis and a pro rata basis.
I think it was 2.1 or2.7  versus minus 1.
I mean is there something in there that's a bit of an anomaly? Or is it a function of the process of getting rid of the nonstrategic assets and that's going to help to close the gap or is it something else ? Michael it is purely a mix calculation in terms of where leases were signed and what centers and what our respective ownership interest rates are.
I hate to say it but it's more math than anything else.
And the reason why we wanted to provide why we provide gross levels with increasing frequency these days to give you an overall perspective of where the portfolio dynamics are going.
The pro rata information is provided so you can do your math and your financial model that relates to the effect on Kimco.
And that's really it there's no hidden meaning in those 2 numbers.
We'll go to Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to touch base on the nonstrategic retail sales.
It sounds like you got some stuff that's in the market and I just wanted to get your commentary on whether or not that increasing interest is translating into better pricing on those types of assets? I would offer that overall pricing has improved to some extent I think that's just the reflection to some degree of the market and that's even starting to open up a little or less than 8 property.
That said as we've talked about in previous call some of the properties that we are looking to exit are shop structural problems severe vacancy et cetera and we are looking really and finding per pound buyers so you really can't apply that broad statement to these very specific issues.
So in general yes.
But I think there are certain situations that are always going to come outside the normal market channel.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on A&amp;P has there been any final list that's come out of them? I thought they were supposed to make some decision by the end of this month? A&amp;P has basically got an extension until the end of the year to make decisions on what they're doing.
They are trying to reorganize the company it's really 2 major things they have to do.
One was to get a new supply agreement done with C&amp;S which they have done.
And the second part of it is to negotiate a new agreement with the union.
And they are in the midst of doing that.
And they're hopeful they'll get it done and with that they feel they can exit bankruptcy.
But it's  beyond our -- yes still at the end of the year before that will be done.
We'll go next to Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> As you look at the box leases you signed over last year or so can you just quantify about how much of those leases and associated NOI have yet to come online? And maybe as an extension how much will take occupancy in the second half of the year and how much will slide into '12? I would often say as a general matter I'm going to guess half and half between time designing and when lease rental income starts to flow and that's just an estimate based on kind of the normal time in terms of turnover of space and tenant fit out before you go open the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up do you have any data in terms of small shop leases in the centers where you have recently replaced dark  boxes versus the rest of the portfolio? Could you restate the question Nathan? [indiscernible] how is that helping the small shops here.
Absolutely.
The question is if we  are filling a dark box is it helping small space absolutely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Do you have any data in terms of differences between those centers where you've  replaced versus that you have not? Not in our fingertips no.
But just in looking at the small ticket leasing which if you recall at the end of the year was at 81.6 went down 81.1 now back up 81.6.
A lot of the traction that we gain has actually been at those centers where they're reopening of the box and choose the box.
I don't have specific statistics but we know that's where the chronic vacancy was for the most part anyway.
So that starts to pick up a little bit.
But there's still plenty of room to go.
We'll go to Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Just coming back to the joint ventures I know in the quarter that Big did another joint venture asset acquisition with you and late last year RioCan bought in the U.S.
I'm just curious could you talk about what -- you're sort of hearing from RioCan and Big in terms of their interest in expanding the existing joint venture relationships in a lot of sort of way U.S.
asset values have gone? Well 2 very different philosophies and RioCan can obviously speak for themselves.
But they're interested in primarily Texas and the Northeast these are 2 markets that they're focused on growing their investment in the U.S.
They like those markets and they look for either portfolios or individual transactions where they can grow that footprint.
The Big Israeli public company is more national scope and they're probably willing to have just a tad lower of quality in exchange for higher higher yield RioCan really is focused on very very high-quality stuff.
Whereas Big has been more flexible in terms of the quality of footprint.
But each of the institutional investors we have has a different profile of exactly what they're looking for.
Some want leverage some don't want leverage.
Some want certain sections of the country.
Some want power centers some don't.
So it's really our job to match the opportunities that we have with the right institutional investor and that's what we've been trying to do.
But both of those 2 in particular continue to aggressively look for acquisitions in the U.S.
We'll go to Christine McElroy of UBS.
It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
I have a question regarding Borders.
Specifically did you look at bidding on any of the stores? Was there any value to the leases? I remember back to the days of Kmart and Montgomery Ward and just wondering if there was any opportunity here.
Typically with Montgomery Ward and the others are lot of fee on properties as well.
And Borders is strictly leased properties.
And typical Borders lease where landlords put a lot of TI allowance into their coffee shops and things like that.
Basically drove a pretty high rent that is not a lot of spread.
Also what's going to happen here is because of how [indiscernible] works really other than another bookstore that wants to buy this location a landlord will have a right to say yes or no.
So the other user will have some control over who takes our space and some very narrow who can take a Borders' location without having to pool with the landlord to do a deal.
Unlike the other leases where there are -- any legal users okay.
Here it's very restrictive.
So 2 storeys properties and things like that.
So if you were looking to buy the lease the lease of Borders you have to think of all those considerations from a purchaser's perspective and having to deal with the landlords and the restrictions thereon.
So all of those factors that Ray just mentioned didn't make it economically viable to do that.
And our history has been driven by buying fee on properties.
So if you look at our opportunistic purchases at Albertsons and Montgomery Ward we were really dealing largely with fees.
And even a user like Books-A-Million withdrew their bid looking in the complexity.
We'll go next to JJ Habermann (sic) [Jay Habermann] with Goldman Sachs.
Dave a question for you on Mexico.
You sounded much more optimistic I'd say this quarter versus what we've heard in the past.
So can you give us a sense of perhaps timing to stabilize there to achieve the 90%? A you're right.
I personally am feeling better as we see some small shop the leasing activity pick up.
That's been the one negative we've been fighting for almost 2 years now since Mexico is so tied to the U.S.
in terms of the economy while the Wal-Marts of the world continued to grow rapidly in Mexico.
And I think I've mentioned several times they opened one store a day in Mexico in many different formats.
So while that's gone unabated the small shop until recently was very slow.
We have our own internal stretch targets that that's getting to 90% which is probably within the next 12 months.
But more formally I'd say realistically 18 months to 24 months away until we get to a full 90% occupancy level.
And what we've been doing you're seeing some of our official stats weaken in terms of occupancy.
Because under our rules we add these newly completed properties into the basket if you will and this drag down the occupancy even though our total occupancy for the whole portfolio is now I think [indiscernible].
It's 81%.
It's 81%.
So the way some of us are looking at this we look at all of our shopping centers in Mexico and quarter-by-quarter it continues to climb and we feel good about that.
And then as I've mentioned we feel very good about the long-term prognosis for Mexico.
The economy is doing quite well manufacturing activity is strong related to both auto and aerospace oil is obviously a big plus for Mexico.
Rising consumer demand less than 1 000 shopping centers in Mexico compared to 100 000 in the U.S.
and so forth.
So all of those stuff bode well for us over time.
And the fact that every single one of our leases has a cost of living increase annually in those leases is also helping us long term as well.
And we've got the added benefit of the currency lately.
Okay.
And then just switching back to the U.S.
maybe for Mike.
On the space that's been vacant more than a year where are we in that process? Has most of that been addressed at this point or just what remains there? In terms of re-leasing spaces that's has been vacant more than a year? Yes the sort of non same-store space in terms of leasing stats.
There continues to be certain boxes that have been vacant for many year.
I think you're talking about both space that's been more than vacant more than a year being absorbed clearly not the case.
Again if you focus on our biggest space we're 96% 97% leased.
So the bigger boxes are not the challenge for us.
The challenge for us is the stuff under 5 000 square feet and they were in the lower 80% and moving upward and for us we think that's great upside.
So the big boxes are not the focus.
Maybe Jay what's behind your question? So that we can understand it.
The portion of leasing essentially that was non-same-store in the most recent quarter.
I guess the sense of how that's going to trend going forward? If you think about the leasing going -- from here going forward? I think to Dave's point there's always going to be some dynamic of that to continue that non-comparable space being leased up.
But it's really going to have to be in the small ticket arena.
Because as Dave has indicated you're almost at 97%  on the big box.
We'll go next to Samit Parikh of the ISI Group.
I had just a question on pricing power in the small shop leasing.
Looking at your supplemental right now sort of I guess the new leases signed this quarter look like they're mostly small shops signed in the mid-15s.
On your lease expiration schedule sort of the small shop leases expiring next year are around $20 a foot how comparable is that space essentially? Is it apples-to-apples? And if that's the case are you guys sort of that far away from where the market is of your expiring small shop leases? It's not apples-to-apples.
That's the issue because you're just dealing with a different inventory because it's national.
You're going to have different locations maturing at different times and that will change the mix.
However we still know that the small ticket leasing is still more pressured relative to the big box in terms of leasing spreads.
And depending on the market you could still be down 10-plus percent in certain areas of the country on leasing spreads for the small ticket.
Okay.
And then just last question for the remainder of the year what's baked into your guidance for occupancy for NOI loss from Blockbuster and Borders? The total NOI point or rent is actually 0.2% of our total rents on an annual basis.
So the effect is going to be really de minimis.
And we took it out for planning purposes.
And that's Borders.
What about Blockbuster? Same thing.
We'll go next to Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just a follow up on the modeling question.
I guess 2 parts.
The marketable securities portfolio was significantly cut back in the quarter.
Is that a one-way change for you guys? And I guess as a follow-up can you talk about the interest dividends on the income line in the back half of the year? Because in Q2 there was a sort of a $10 million nonrecurring pop but I'm wondering if given in light of the direction of that security portfolio should we expect they'll be meaningfully cut back in the back half of the year? Yes well the marketable securities the size of the portfolio is only about $40 million today.
The biggest item obviously was the Valad convertible note which is gone.
And we had obviously -- in our original guidance we weren't planning to sell that until sometime actually having mature back in 2013.
So as I mentioned in the guidance we had to take that into account.
But in terms of where we are I mean there's a small amount of securities that's left.
So we don't plan to grow that at all.
As a matter fact you'll see it continues to decrease as we go further in the year as another bond matures later in the year that we have to take off.
And in terms of the interest there's another investment income.
There is a little bit of a pop this quarter from the distribution received on a private equity investment where we had virtually no basis.
So that's part of the nonrecurring flows that we pulled out anyway.
And so you'll see that number come down a little bit.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
At this time I'll turn the conference back to our hosts.
Thanks Felicia.
And a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thanks for participating today.
That concludes our call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Kimco's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce your speaker today Dave Bujnicki.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Audrey.
Thank you all for joining the third quarter 2011 Kimco earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo our Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call represent the company and management's hopes intentions beliefs expectations or projections of the future which are forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the SEC filings.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
Feel free to return to the queue if you have additional questions and if we have time at the end of the call we will address them.
With that I now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning.
And thanks for calling in today.
We are very pleased with our third quarter results and we believe that they represent continued solid and steady progress across the board on our key goals and objectives.
With an uncertain and soft economic environment we are happy to have focused the past 2 years on strengthening our balance sheet spelling numerous lower quality and nonstrategic shopping centers and reducing our non-retail portfolio by more than 50% from $1.2 billion in early 2009 to $564 million today.
We believe that this number will be under $500 million by year end representing only 4.5% of our assets.
While our InTown portfolio continues to be evaluated by at least 2 potential buyers.
It is fair to say that there is no imminent sale transaction to report even though the properties continued to perform very well with FFO returns exceeding 20%.
We thank Scott Griffith CEO of InTown and his team for their continued hard work and strong results.
For those that recently read the Wall Street Journal article about our dispositions of mixed used urban assets I would like to put in a good word and clarifying comment for our New York City redevelopment partner Beck Street Capital.
Since our joint venture was formed in 2003 we've had great success with Beck Street Capital together we have acquired renovated and repositioned 10 buildings in Manhattan which generally can be characterized as street-level retail properties with apartments or office on the upper floors.
To date we have sold 8 of the 10 buildings most recently 82 Christopher Street this quarter all at significant gains.
The remaining 2 New York City buildings are also high-quality well-located properties which will be sold upon completion of planned renovation and rezoning initiatives.
Despite the weak figures for employment housing and consumer sentiment consumers' spending and retail sales remain solid with good back-to-school numbers and most experts are expecting holiday sales to be up 2% to 3% helped by an extra shopping day this year.
Discounters like Marshall's Ross Stores Bed Bath Ecko et cetera are all doing especially well and expanding aggressively.
With virtually no new development in our sector population growth and positive GDP retailers are taking second looks at existing vacancies and being more aggressive on effective rents.
Despite the Borders and A&amp;P bankruptcies our portfolio of metrics or as we like to say vital signs continue to improve under Mike Pappagallo's leadership and he will provide further details in a moment.
Overall we had a very good strong quarter highlighted by Glenn Cohen's successful closing of our new 4-year $1.75 billion line of credit provided by 28 individual banks.
With respect to new businesses subsequent to June 30 we acquired 6 shopping centers totaling $117 million and comprising approximately 730 000 square feet.
Details are contained in our earnings release but I do want to emphasize that we continue to be very selective careful and cautious on the acquisition front.
Internationally Canada continues to deliver with 97% portfolio occupancy and continued expansion activity from both Canadian and U.S.
retailers.
Marshalls opened a sixth location in Toronto and continues to negotiate new deals.
Including one for a new building in our large development project in Montréal.
The target acquisition of 220 Zellers leases in Canada is particularly exciting and transformational.
Of Kimco's 15 Zellers leases 9 locations will become new Target stores.
One will be a new Wal-Mart and one a new Sobey's grocery store and 4 will remain Zellers for the time being.
The first Target in Canada is expected to open in January of 2013 and smaller retailers are anxious to locate near the new Target stores.
In Mexico GDP grew by 3.9% in the first half of 2011 and the economy is expected to remain strong in the second half as well.
Same-store sales generally are up 4.2% through July with clothing and shoe sale up 8%.
Both U.S.
Mexican retailers are again expanding aggressively including Wal-Mart Home Depot Office Depot Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Chedraui Opel and Cynapiles[ph].
During the quarter our total occupancy of the portfolio including development assets reached 82%.
At the risk of stating it too many times every lease including the 8% it contained full annual cost-of-living escalators and many leases have percentage rent provision all of which should serve us well in future years.
I would like to close by mentioning that this afternoon Kimco will celebrate its 20th anniversary as a public company by ringing the closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange.
It's a wonderful milestone for all of us at Kimco.
And we are particularly indebted to Milton and Marty Kimmel for blazing the trail 20 years ago as the first IPO of the modern retailer.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of our third quarter to be followed by Mike and then Milton.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning.
It's been a little over a year since our Investor Day where we outlined a strategy with focus on the ownership and operation of shopping centers the value creation and continued lease up of our identified strategic shopping center portfolio and the growth and their recurring operating cash flows.
As part of our strategy we are committed to recycling capital from sales of retail assets deemed nonstrategic and monetizing the non-retail assets while strengthening our balance sheet metrics.
Our third quarter results demonstrate significant progress toward our stated objectives.
Third quarter recurring FFO per share was $0.30 compared to $0.28 last year a 7.1% per share increase.
Our recurring FFO included positive NOI growth of $6.8 million or 4.6% from the shopping center portfolio.
About 40% of the growth is organic with a continued lease-up of our Latin America portfolio further positive performance in the U.S.
portfolio.
This is evidenced by the positive operating vital signs of 3.3% combined same-site NOI growth which includes U.S.
Canada and Latin America and represents our sixth consecutive positive quarter for this metrics.
Combined gross occupancy at 93% and positive leasing spreads of 2.7% from new leases renewals and options.
Down to the growth is from acquisition activity.
The recurring $0.30 level excludes $12 million of nonrecurring income and $7.5 million of noncash impairment charges.
The nonrecurring income is attributable to another distribution from our Albertsons investments participation income from disposition of several preferred equity investments and one urban asset.
The noncash impairment from transaction-oriented related primarily to sales or pending sales of certain nonstrategic assets.
As such headline FFO per share came in at $0.31 compared to $0.27 per share last year.
Based on our 9-month results of recurring FFO per share of $0.90 we've tightened our guidance range for the recurring FFO per share from $1.17 to $1.21 to $1.19 to $1.20.
As a reminder this guidance range does not include noncash impairments or nonrecurring income.
It was definitely a productive quarter for us.
We sold 10 nonstrategic operating properties this quarter which produced gains of $6.4 million which as we all know were not included in FFO.
We have sold 33 assets since we announced this program for total proceeds of $134 million yet another 6 under contracts and we're evaluating offers on 21 other properties which could provide proceeds in excess of $200 million if all the transactions were completed.
We continue to make progress on the monetization of the non-retail assets.
We sold about $35 million this quarter reducing the remaining balance of $564 million.
And we expect to monetize another $75 million before our next conference call in February bringing the total reductions to over $300 million since the beginning of the year which is well ahead of our plan even without the sale of InTown this year.
It should be noted that the assets sold during 2011 produced a net gain of $9 million and we will continue to use a measured approach to maximize the value of the remaining non-retail assets.
Proceeds from the disposition of assets have been redeployed by acquiring shopping center assets in the key markets we have targeted.
We have purchased 6 assets since the end of the second quarter for $117 million.
Our balance sheet metrics  continue to improve and our liquidity position is very strong.
We ended the quarter with net debt to recurring EBITDA at 6x the level we expected to achieve by the end of 2012.
We began the year on 6.3x.
Our total consolidated debt level is under $4 billion at the end of the third quarter and our consolidated debt maturity are very manageable with only $385 million due in 2012 and $650 million due in 2013.
Our access to capital remains strong with an investment grade rating of BBB+ and a stable outlook.
As we announced last week we completed a new $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility supported by commitments from 28 banks.
We're very pleased by the support and interest we received during the syndication process our pending commitments of over $2.8 billion.
The term is 4 years with a one-year extension option as the company's election with a final maturity on October of 2016.
Borrowings on new facility are priced at LIBOR plus 105 one of the lowest spreads in the REIT industry.
The facility replaced both our U.S.
facility and our Canadian facility which was scheduled to mature during 2012.
Looking forward although we have not finalized our details property-by-property budget process we are providing initial guidance of 2012 for recurring FFO per share of $1.22 to $1.26.
This guidance range is based solely on recurring flows and does not include any transaction income or impairments.
Using the midpoint of the 2012 guidance range yields an increase in recurring FFO per share of about 4%.
The range is dependent on the timing of certain non-retail dispositions including InTown Suites the timing of acquisitions and dispositions and foreign currency exchange rates.
Our initial capital plans for 2012 requires no new equity as we expect to continue our capital recycling program.
We will provide more specific assumptions on the next conference call.
As a result of our 2011 performance and expectations for 2012 our Board of Directors has approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend of $0.01 to 0.19 per quarter a 5.6% increase on an annualized basis.
Our FFO payout ratio will remain conservative at a level of just over 50%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Glen.
Good morning everyone.
The U.S.
shopping center portfolio posted up solid operating metrics once again this quarter.
With positive same-store NOI positive leasing spreads and a 20 basis point increase in pro rata occupancy over the prior quarter.
On a gross basis occupancy has climbed 50 basis points since last year's third quarter even after the effects of the Borders and A&amp;P supermarket bankruptcy that mixed about 40 basis points off the current 92.9% level.
That said we've already made excellent progress with respect to the over 550 000 square feet of vacant space left by the Borders and A&amp;P situations.
Of the 19 boxes vacated we currently have new leases signed for 3 locations are negotiating leases before '13.
Shooting for 8 of those to be signed by the end of the year leaving 3 sites without significant activity.
Some of the new users and potential users are familiar names including Ross Stores Ulta Cosmetics TJX Companies and Michaels.
The national change continue to be the driver of the positive absorption in the portfolio.
For the first 9 months of the year we signed almost 900 000 square feet of leases with the national and retailers that are listed on our top 50 tenant list.
The steady growing lead of activity with national retailers has experienced year and last we feel is more reflective of the mindset and perspective of those retailers despite the uncertain economy.
Call it sensible and strategic growth it is stark contrast to the alternating panic and euphoria exhibited by the financial press and the stock market in reaction to every morsel of economic data.
And as Dave mentioned we expect the decent holiday season on the heels of the best back-to-school season since 2007.
But the absence of fear will not cause us to become complacent.
Consumer spending while improving has gained from the trade-off from savings not growth in disposable income.
Comp sales numbers across the spectrum have been uneven there will always be store closings retrenchment of retailer business models and particularly with the advance of e-commerce stages in space leaves and footprint.
The most recent announcement from the GAAP is illustrative of both situations taking place.
At Kimco we do not expect to be impacted much as most of our locations are the Old Navy banner that spaces in the 15 000 to 18 000 square foot range with many lease maturities 3 to 10 years out.
We believe strongly that the best way to be successful in this environment is to continue with the programs we laid out to investors a year ago at the Investor Day.
As part of that program recycling of assets for which Glenn has provided you with his statistics.
We're also focused on value creation through redevelopment out-parcel leasing and smaller scale space reconfiguration and re-tenanting in our core strategic portfolio.
It seems that redevelopment opportunities are in every REIT managements minds these days and that's no surprise as the returns are generally much better than the returns available in the acquisition market.
We've been carrying about $100 million to $150 million worth of active projects at any given time over the past few years.
But the longer-range pipeline continues to grow.
We currently have about 10 projects in the design and entitlement space with another 30 under evaluation.
Not all of those pan out but it underscores the focus in energy and maximizing value being given in this area.
Dave provided some commentary on our non-U.S.
businesses allow me to add an additional perspective.
In Latin America our team is well underway to achieving its new leasing target of 700 000 square feet for the current fiscal year.
The overall occupancy level of all of our projects including those not yet stabilized has steadily increased from 74% at the beginning of 2010 to just under 82% mentioned earlier.
We are aggressively targeting 90% by the end of 2012 and positive signs are bound to help us get there including interest -- increased interest from key Mexico retailers including Liverpool and Palacio De Hierro.
We will also start to generate cash flows very soon from our Viña del Mar development of Chile Wal-Mart's leader format and Sodimac opening soon.
Canada continues to be the pillar of strength in the portfolio 97% occupancy level and 11% combined positive leasing spread over the past 12 months and over 5% same-store NOI growth even without the effect of a strong Canadian dollar which in turn underscores the relative attractiveness of the economy.
In the third quarter our Canadian shopping center investments generated about 9% of our pro rata NOI.
We'd like it to be higher although acquisitions are hard to come by.
So we continue to explore the possibilities of converting some of our remaining preferred equity investments due to parity with some joint ventures and obtain larger economic positions in those assets.
Over the past 12 months the combined contribution of our Latin American and Canadian investments have ranged between 15% to 18% of NOI.
And we would expect that contribution to continue to increase particularly as more of the Mexico developments reach stabilization.
An international component of our shopping center portfolio is one that we feel will be an ongoing source of core growth and will clear it as a hedging of the uncertainties in the U.S.
economy.
With that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
Our strategy to be the premier owner and manager of retail properties as they continue to seize opportunities relating to retail real estate.
And we have a long track record from this activity going back to any stores Frank's Nursery Venture Stores Montgomery Wards Strawbridge &amp; Clothier and most recently Albertsons.
Thus far we have received cash proceeds of 5x our original investment in Albertsons and there is more to come.
In reviewing a large and diversified portfolio I believe that we are relatively well positioned to face any economic headwinds.
We are Home Depot's largest landlord with 45 locations.
And principally they are a ground blessing what they have addressed it in the buildings and we have leased the land to them.
We are the largest landlord of Costco where consumers are buying more and more.
We have over 140 TJX stores 71 Ross stores off-price retailers that are benefiting by the value-seeking consumer.
By the way last night Costco Ross stores and TJX reported excellent same-store sales.
And I take comfort that our contract brands are below market in many instances.
My own view is that if you own real estate and it is leased and marketed or below.
If you are in the real estate business to the extent that rents are above markets you were in the mezzanine lending business.
We like the real state business better.
The investors are looking for safety and yield and the demand to own hard assets in the United States is such that in my opinion cap rates will decline.
Now this November is the 20th anniversary of our IPO but in fact we have been active in retail real estate for 30 years before that.
We have been through many cycles of changes in the marketplace.
And it's interesting to look back and reflect on our performance compared to other asset class.
The recent analysis showed that funds matured 6.1% from 1991 to 2010 on an annualized basis.
Both had annual returns of 7.2% in the same period.
The S&amp;P 507 7.7% and oil 8%.
The REIT index was up 10.5 annually and I am proud and pleased that since our IPO in November '91 our annualized total return has been approximately 13%.
We all work hard to continue to outperform.
We have a great team that's committed to executing our strategy.
But I thank you and we're delighted to answer any questions you may have.
Audrey as Mr.
Cooper said we're ready for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I was wondering if you could just give us a little more detail.
The same-store NOI number trended down a little bit this quarter I realized it can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
But also I know that there were some bad debt that might have played a role in that.
Can you just may be give us a little more detail on the same-store? And also we noticed that the straight-line receivable number came down by a couple of million dollars and I'm just wondering if there's anything that you guys are doing differently as you reserve for tenants? Can I take that one it's the last bastion of financial data that I have in same-store NOI.
So yes this quarter was affected to a slight degree by the Borders and A&amp;P bankruptcies kind of a marginal effect.
The straight-line rent receivable was really more the consequence of some of the sales that we had in the quarter.
So those are really are the 2 drivers.
Bad debt again a marginal improvement year-over-year and that's reflective of really where the economy and our experience has been.
But as you know historically if you look at it we're a very conservative posture on the development and establishment of the reserves.
So we're not going to have any really wild fluctuation in our bad debt from period to period.
We also had a pretty good comp when you look at last year.
So you put all of those factors together that was really the driver.
There are a lot of small things with respect to the same-store NOI changes quarter-over-quarter nothing that's of any headline though.
I think there was on [indiscernible] include in it.
Yes.
Next we'll move to Nathan Isbee at Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just David can you just talk about how the hotel portfolio has performed over the last 3 months? And what your expectations for NOI are in 2012? And I know it's a little early but probably if you can talk about the trends there.
The trends continue to be very strong including the last 3 months of the REVPAR continues to increase high single-digit year-over-year.
And we believe 2012 the EBITDA will be back to the levels that was right before we bought it.
So we still feel very good about what's going at InTown Suites and I will take a minute just to remind everybody it's roughly 1% of our assets.
It's performing very well.
We have a great management team headquartered in Atlanta.
And we're confident that we will sell this portfolio to the right buyer at the right time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up on the acquisitions this quarter.
There was 2 JV where you bought your JV partner one in Corpus Christi one is in Pensacola.
Are those assets that you just bought for your portfolio or this positioning them better for sales given that they are not in the top 20 limits that you've been targeting? Yes in one case Nate we actually bought the underlying fee.
So the leasehold position of the property that we had for many many years.
In the other case it was part of the margin portfolio in Albertsons also some third-party real estate we had owned a part of it.
We had managed it previously.
So we found an opportunity that made sense.
So we already had an economic interest in both of those assets both previously.
We'll go next to Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mike just going back to your comments about the decline in the personal savings helping to fuel our consumer spending.
Is this something that worries you going into 2012? Is it an unsustainable trend.
Is this something that retailers are talking about at all? And if we do sort of hit a breaking point and see a pullback in spending patterns how quickly do you think retailers could pull back on new store opening plans? So basically how sensitive are they to changes and trends this time around? Well first Christy you know that I worry about everything one among thousands of things.
But yes it is concerning and I think behind some of the comments that we made is that we continue to look around the corner.
We are worried about the sustainability of the recovery from the fact that there really isn't a lot of true wage and income growth.
Now as that translates into retailer plans the other point I tried to make was that their growth again is being what I'd call strategic.
It's very smart they are not opening stores just to make numbers.
They're very cognizant that spending patterns can change.
That's why it's the least in our portfolios we were seeing much of the growth coming from the value-conscious shoppers we're looking at our tenant base who was appealing for that value conscious-shopper.
In some cases it's about existing strong retailers who were trying to capitalize on existing markets or enter new markets where others might have fallen apart.
So I don't think you're going to the see retailers stop on the dime if there are turned down drifts with respect to consumer spending.
They factored that into their plans I think they're being very careful in terms of how they approach footprint growth and new store openings.
I just wanted to add one thing.
Our population grows like 3 million a year.
So close your eyes and visualize a city with no retail of 3 million people and also visualize that there are no new malls being built.
So where does that growth have to come from? Retailers of the non-mall sector.
So you are bound to have enough growth just from that sector so I think we will see both.
I'll just add one more too.
The national retailers that we talk to the plan their store count many years in advance.
They allocate their capital budgeting many years in advance.
There is a momentum to the store expansion plans that are pretty locked in we see no evidence of any pullback at this point.
And as Mike points out many of the retailers in our portfolio are these very strong discounters that are growing by 100 stores a year well into the future.
Next we'll move to Jay Habermann at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dave you mentioned being somewhat cautious on acquisitions and clearly cap rates are still tight.
Can you give us some update in terms of what you're seeing I guess in core retail for the core versus the value add and maybe difference in pricing that's transpired in the last couple of months? There really is a big difference between very high quality shopping centers in what they call either gateway or prime market and just about everything else.
For those very strong core properties in these primary markets cap rates have dropped down below 6% it's really quite amazing.
And it continues to be very strong demand for other centers even if they're good properties in secondary locations cap rates are good 100 basis points higher I would say.
And there continues to be a lot less demand for secondary markets and any assets are considered be assets.
Next we'll move to Quentin Velleley at Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman speaking.
And I could've told you long before the investment that Canada was going to be the pillar of strength.
That's why we went there Mike.
[ph] Just a question as you think about growth going forward M&amp;A and obviously the buyers or retailers for real state has been a good contributing factor to Kimco's growth over the last couple of decades.
How much do you see that playing a part as we move forward in consolidation both on the REIT M&amp;A front but also the retailer front? Well we continue to explore opportunities both are tough in this environment M&amp;A pricing is difficult as Milton has pointed out over the years you end up paying for their investment bankers their lawyers your bankers and their shareholders want a premium and all that.
And many of these M&amp;A targets have made it through this great recession if you will.
They've solved their liquidity.
There's no urgency or pressure of them to sell the company.
So there's not a lot of opportunities on the surface although we continue to evaluate them as they come up.
In terms of retailers which is you're right our core strength of Kimco we continue to look at opportunities.
These things come in very lumpy if you will Albertsons and Montgomery Wards and they're generally big deals and they're difficult to predict.
Also the number of retailers that actually own their own real estate is a diminishing number.
Many retailers are solely leases and it's much more difficult to find value creation opportunities in a portfolio of leases than it is owned stores like we were able to do in Albertsons.
And to finish that off Michael that's why although we can't predict that future one school of thought is just less about M&amp;A and accumulation of assets which needs to be carefully considered in the future environment where e-commerce becomes more prevalent and maybe in our case more about diversity through international growth continued to utilize the investment management model to gain better returns on an existing U.S.
real state and again focusing on those top 200 properties that have the most organic growth.
I think as we look at it today that's basically the recipe for us as opposed to and after the cumulation of this core group of assets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up for Glenn.
You talked about guidance for next year being preliminary but you mentioned the sale of non-retail and potentially InTown Suites and acquisitions and dispositions and FX having an effect on the numbers.
Maybe you can just broadly outline obviously with Intown Suites being like 12% FFO yield those things could be dilutive.
So I'm just trying to understand what sort of baked in to this $1.22 to $1.26 related to those activities that you mentioned in your opening comments? Sure no problem.
By the way InTown Suites is like 20% FFO yield not a 12% FFO.
So to your point it will have an impact when it does get sold and we have part of this preliminary budget assume that it would get sold by the end of the second quarter.
So it has -- that's part of why we have the variance in the range.
We put in some preliminary numbers such as monetizing roughly $200 million of the non-retail assets and they are earning assets.
So they have an impact we continue again the recycling programs.
so we have estimated around $150 million of further sales so the timing of those acquisitions and then the dispositions they're going to come into play.
I think the biggest driver when you look at it is what we expect to happen on our total retail shopping center portfolio.
In there we see somewhere between 3% and 5% growth.
And it's really going to come from the upside of leases that we've signed that haven't come on board.
The continued lease-up of Mexico and so we feel pretty good about where that's going to go.
However I will tell you we have not finished all of our detailed property-by-property budgets and that's where we'll be able to give a better indication about what same-site NOI growth will be and where we really expect occupancy to be however we do feel that they will be positive.
Research Division</strong> Right and perhaps in sales FFO will be higher.
Correct yes.
We'll move next to Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a sort of a follow-up I guess.
You said you haven't done the bottom-up to get to same-store NOI.
But kind of that said is there anything that you see from the non-U.S.
portfolio that would lead you to think that it won't be driving the combined same-store numbers up meaningfully again? Obviously it's going to double once you include the Canada and Lat Am in there.
I mean is that looking good as well on a preliminary basis for next year? On a preliminary basis again it does look good.
However we have to be cautious somewhat about what our currency impacts are.
The Mexican pesos vacillated quite a bit during the year and it does have impact on those earnings.
But overall we do expect continued lease-up significant lease-up in the Latin America portfolio.
Mike had mentioned just coming online of a large Chile project.
So those are up kind of built in already.
But again we still need all the bottom line property-by-property details to really give a fair estimation of where we think occupancy and same-store NOI growth will come from.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then a quick follow-up I think you mentioned -- I heard you say that you're working on another 30 or so projects in terms of redevelopment is that right? Yes the 30 are things that we have on the drawing board currently under evaluation and it cuts across the entire U.S.
portfolio.
Research Division</strong> I mean is there any way you could characterize that? I mean what a total investment would be or are they sort of anchor additions or anything more substantive as a rule? If you wanted a preliminary -- a number Paul the combination of everything that we have in the pipeline including those those various phases whether it's entitlement under evaluation active and as we think about redevelopment as well as complex leasing strategies and out-parcel probably the total tab is about $300-plus million.
But again I caution about saying that is the number because some of these deals some of these concepts will fall by the wayside and be replaced by others.
So hopefully that'll just give you a perspective of that one point in time what our regional leadership is looking at in terms of value creation and footprint addition.
We'll go next to Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> With more properties coming in to the Mexico portfolio and obviously that expanding but then some of the metrics it looked like in the quarter maybe leasing spreads couple of others were not as strong.
I'm wondering what you're thinking what your expectations are for NOI pick-up in that portfolio and whether you see the same enthusiasm from retailers -- you ask retailers I guess for Mexican assets? What I would say to you Rich in terms of those leasing spread metrics you're dealing with a very small a finite population and a certain of the centers has been influenced by competitive factors at certainty of those locations.
So we won't shy away from the fact that for a subset of the Mexico portfolio that comparable spread positions are lower.
But in the broader context there's a significant amount of the Mexico NOI is coming from in effect first-generation space still we feel comfortable that the absolute numbers will increase according to our plan.
And I'll let Dave answer but I still see no diminution in the interest of both U.S.
and Mexico retailers to invest in these locations.
As the #1 champion of Mexico around the table here I can tell you we still feel very very strong about what's going on in Mexico.
If anything retail interest is accelerating.
We recently talked to Bed Bath &amp; Beyond they're jumping in with both lead in Mexico.
Wal-Mart continues as I mentioned this before to open one store a day in Mexico.
Home Depot we just did another Home Depot deal and in Mexico.
And you have the Mexican retailers now accelerating their expansion plans it's a grocer that's well-capitalized and expanding greatly.
The economy is strong underneath as I mentioned.
So if anything we see some momentum in Mexico coming out of the recession notwithstanding the headlines the order of violence and things like that.
The basic case for Mexico remains strong.
There's only 1 000 shopping centers in Mexico for 100 million people versus 100 000 shopping centers in the U.S.
for 300 million people.
So it's a very different situation down there and over time it should help us.
And we are able to get leases we cannot get in the U.S.
with percentage rents with cost of living escalators and things like that.
So we still feel very good and we believe it will drop a fair amount of income -- incremental income into our earnings next year.
I think the thing to remember about the metrics in Mexico is that the leasing structure are really small -- a number of leases really small square footage that only lasts 2 to 3 years.
They're experiencing a small negative what we don't put into the Mexico same spread numbers as just like Dave mentioned is things like all of the cost of living increases annually on all the anchor tenant.
So it's a little bit of a misleader when you look at the leasing spreads in Mexico.
We'll go next to Alex Goldfarb at Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Dave just a question for you.
You've been quite active and vocal on the Internet tax.
Just sort of curious just given the law of unintended consequences and regulations that Washington has put out that end up affecting business in ways that hadn't been foreseen is there a concern that by advocating sort of a national tax or that Internet people pay tax that somehow there's some unintended consequence and that it hurts retail as opposed to helping it? Well let's clarify.
Nobody is advocating a national sales tax.
This is a sale -- a state sale collection issue.
So there are 44-some states that have a state sales tax.
All we're advocating and I'm particularly vocal because I'm serving one year as Chairman of the ICSE is for a basic level playing field out there.
It is blatantly unfair that our tenants that pay us rent and pay real estate taxes have to collect state sales taxes and the Amazons of the world do not.
And it has a significant impact in some states it's 9.4% in terms of the state sales tax.
University of Tennessee has a great study out showing that states are going to miss out on some $23 billion of sales tax revenue because of the growing online sales where they do not collect taxes.
So in my mind it's a fairness issue.
It's a tax revenue issue for the state at a time when most of these states are under pressure.
And quite frankly it's also a job issue for every $1 million of incremental sales on brick-and-mortar retail it adds roughly 4 jobs to the economy.
For every $1 million of Internet sales it's less than one job.
So it's a big difference and worth the good fight.
Now there's 3 different bills in Congress 2 in the Senate and one in the House so this thing is gaining momentum but it has nothing to do with a national sales tax.
It simply will empower the states to force the online retailers to collect the sales taxes that are already due and payable by people.
And people buy books from Amazon and Amazon does not collect the tax.
They're still required under state laws to pay the tax.
They just don't and technically if they get audited they're forced to pay penalties and interest.
So it's pretty clear to me and most of us in the shopping center business that this thing should be corrected.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I didn't to say national sales tax I meant just making imposing or mandating that the Internet folks collect tax and I appreciate that I think you said small business would be exempted.
But it seems like retailers are increasingly coordinating their strategy so that bricks-and-mortar and online works together so that people can shop one place pick up at another or return to bricks-and-mortar.
So it almost seems like just naturally the bricks-and-mortar guys have a clear leg up because they can offer full service whereas the Internet only don't have that advantage.
So that's why I'm surprised that they'd be losing sales as opposed to gaining.
I think you're right over time it will all merge including the fact that Amazon will be forced to collect the sales tax.
And you may see Amazon open bricks-and-mortar stores themselves as they try to take advantage of a dual strategy.
I mean just look at Apple Apple's success with their stores.
They used to sell almost everything online.
They now have huge success by going to the brick-and-mortar stores.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Cedrik Lachance at Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you talk about small shop leasing nowadays I think the national tenants are mentioned more often than not.
Is it where you spend the bulk of your time trying to court national tenants to go to small shops? Or do you still spend a fair amount of your time trying to mom-and-pop retailers to sell small shop space? We at the level of effort and in energy is dedicated to both is just how you approach it.
Our regional president and their teams that have very strong and deep relationship with the national retailers.
So I'll use the word easy but the ability for us to make deals resolve problems understand their growth plans and get things done is really -- starts at a very high level and very efficient.
The majority of our leasing teams are focusing both directly and through local brokerage sort of the local brokerage community to emphasize and focus on small floors the mom-and-pop the smaller national franchisees et cetera to try and solicit and to make some headway in the small store category.
So clearly Cedrik we're not biased one way towards the other.
It's just the realities of the marketplace that it is tougher in the economy and in this environment.
To gain a lot of traction particularly in the mom-and-pop.
So that's why a lot of our strategy the bottoms-up assessment of what properties that's longer-term sustain power versus those that do not.
And I think if one looks into our non-strategic shopping centers I don't have the information at my fingertips.
But you probably see that these small store occupancy is even lower than the 81.x percent that we report on an overall basis.
So that's a consideration as well in terms of which property to keep versus which property we ultimately want to exit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And staying on the mom-and-pop theme there Mike when you think about the appetites for new space on the mom-and-pop retailers now versus perhaps a year ago how would you gauge the difference and their perception and their desire to increase their footprint? Actually I have Paul Puma here with us who is President of our Southeast and Florida region.
When I say Florida you certainly know he is the front and center in terms of small store activity.
So Paul perhaps you could answer Cedrik's question? I'd be happy to.
Thank you Mike.
I think the answer to that question is improving.
I'll just use Florida as an example.
I think that the glut of tenant vacates and the move-out and request for rent reductions are not as significant today as they were a year ago.
So I think we're seeing slow growth in many of our markets consistent growth stabilization of rents and an improvement in occupancy.
We'll go next to Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe to build a little bit on an Alex's question.
Dave I know percentage rents are a material part of your story per se but I'm curious how do you think lease clauses pertaining to percentage rents more so over time in the retail industry to address the reality that consumers are changing they're buying returned goods and they could purchase online but return in your stores.
And similarly retailers really seem to be more focused than ever on margin rather than unit growth and store sales.
I'm just wondering if you think that percentage rent clauses -- your historically distributing on unit level of sales might not really kind of capture what's going on in the store anymore.
Well let me take a stab at this.
I mean in the neighborhood and community shopping center business there are not a lot of leases with percentage rents we're just very different than the mall guys.
I think in the U.S.
less than 1% in the U.S.
We just happen to be getting it in Mexico because we're early and we have a little bit of a pricing power.
I expect over time we will not be able to negotiate for percentage rents.
As an example we have some older Wal-Mart leases that we first hit in Mexico where we were able to negotiate for percentage rents our new Wal-Mart leases we do not get percentage rent.
So I suspect the percentage of leases where we're able to negotiate for percentage rent will gradually decline in Latin America and will remain very very small in the U.S.
So for our particular business neighborhood and community shopping centers we don't see it as a significant factor in terms of our revenues.
In terms of the complexity for mall landlords they are already playing this battle about not being paid percentage rent for sales that are indirectly done in their stores.
Because these stores are used as return vehicles for things purchased on the Internet and exchanges.
So it becomes very complicated and I think you talked to Bobby Tom and Billy or David Simon they can go into it a lot more but it is a growing issue for the mall issues on exactly how they could collect their percentage rent from mall tenants.
I'll just add one quick thing Jeff that on the ground in terms of day-to-day lease negotiations to Dave's point percentage rents are never that big a deal as a percentage of rent clauses.
What we find from time to time though is we're negotiating with our retailer arm wrestling in terms of the rent as we're settling on or rent that we think is below market but we believe in the center.
Then we'll introduce the percentage clause if the retailer does prevail in their projected sales level.
With that we see it more as an upside and not as necessarily a negative side because we're both nonrepliant on those closed right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I know it's small but every bit counts and it's just a shift in industry.
Actually if I can ask one just second question is how do you think about net absorption per space? Specifically in your U.S.
portfolio over the next few years because again a lot of retailers are opening stores but they're also downsizing and closing older larger format stores.
So maybe the -- I know you and other folks talk about unit growth but I'm wondering if that's really the right metric for measuring retailer expansion plans I'm just curious how you think about that.
Well and just looking at the recent history.
What you've seen is certainly significant positive absorption on anchors or 10 000 square foot involved and what you had to echo Paul's comments is a couple of years ago a bloodbath in terms of the small space and now it's stabilizing.
It's a bit of standoff but there is a positive churn.
As we move forward I mean we clearly as different retail formats begin to think and actively pursue a downsizing strategy and the footprint strategy it will become a deal-by-deal side-by-side assessment of how we can in effect fill in the excess space.
And that in turn depends on which of those retailers or regional retailers or national retailers are growing.
So the example which we've done in a couple of cases is working with Best Buy and they are downsizing.
They substracted about 10 000-plus square feet in couple of our locations and we put in Ulta Cosmetics who is a growing retail chain and we're able to satisfy that.
Now that's not going to happen in all of the cases but I think in terms of leasing the big box the big-box retailers who may be downsized to a certain extent it's going to be filled by most retailers that are growing.
And the small store it will be more driven by the economy in general than any other that I mentioned.
And we do have industries that are still growing.
I mean we've talked in the past about the restaurant industry casual dining and fast food.
There's a lot of growth in there as people continue to eat out more and more.
So maybe electronics is shrinking and having more of a direct impact from the Internet but the restaurant business is growing.
To throw a compliment Rich Marseilles I mean we love his study that shows currently on a survey of the 2 200 national retailers I think they're going to open somewhere around 72 000 new stores over the next 24 months.
So to us that means there's probably going to be net growth even though some of the store prototypes are smaller.
The next one from Jim Sullivan at Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all I'd like to make a comment to really to Milton and to congratulate him for the anniversary and the track record.
I think all of us in the industry owe him a debt of gratitude for being a pioneer of this phase of the REIT industry and how he's conducted himself over the years.
Secondly I do have a question.
And the question that relates to your disposition strategy.
You still have this 9% of the U.S.
portfolio that's in your nonstrategic column and I'm curious how you think about the process of disposing of these whether it's a selling them in 1s and 2s or small packages as opposed to doing a large portfolio transaction.
Some of your peers both in the sector and outside of the sector have done some large portfolio transactions in the past year and I'm curious how you assess the efficiencies and the pricing alternatives that you get if you do a transaction like that.
Well you make a good point.
In our case that we have a significant number of assets and the effect on our rents is -- and we started was only 10% so really what that tells Jim is that a lot of this kind of first evolution is relatively insignificant properties that take a disproportionate amount of work and markets that we may not have much of a presence.
So because of that it has been somewhat of a one deal at a time as we pursue local operators.
That's been the primary way to get this done.
We haven't made any decisions about exiting broad slacks of markets or in particular cities or things of that nature.
That said in addition to the one strategy we have been entertaining a couple of scenarios whereby we will put in multiple properties into a package.
We're evaluating a couple of those and pursuing with a couple of potential buyers.
Again it will be on a relative basis it's small because again we're only talking about properties that equate to 10%.
I think the message I'd like to bring out though is that this for us is a first evolution of trying to remove some of the high end number but smaller impact type of properties.
This notion of recycling and reconsideration of a particular property and long-term viability is going to be a continuous process for the company as we move forward.
And what might be a property that's because of the particular circumstances we may consider strategic or in good shape the changing dynamics of a given market or sub-market may cause us to think differently in 2 years.
So this will evolve and continue but at this point for stage 1 as I call it we'll probably continue to be on a one-off or small package base.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bujnicki for closing remarks.
Thanks Audrey.
And a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thank you everybody for participating today.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Kimco's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce your speaker today Dave Bujnicki.
Please proceed Mr.
Bujnicki.
Thanks Cynthia.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning is Milton Cooper Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call represent the company and management's hopes intentions beliefs expectations or projections of the future which are forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors to better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have the opportunity to speak with management.
Feel free to return to the queue if you have additional questions.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in today.
I'm a little under the weather so I'm going to ask Scott Onufrey to read my prepared remarks but I will be available for any easy questions after that.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year results and we believe they represent continued solid and steady progress on our key goals and objectives.
Our earnings release contains the detailed numbers for the quarter but I would like to highlight certain areas and provide further updated information on others.
Overall and step-by-step our retail portfolio continues to strengthen as evidenced by the key metrics or as we like to say our vital signs.
Seven straight quarters of positive same-store NOI growth positive leasing spreads of 4.9% and a 30 basis point increase on our occupant -- in our occupancy altogether present a strong and improving picture.
The economy and our retailers are both showing tentative signs of shrugging off the anemic recovery and focusing on growth.
With virtually no new development in our retail sector sustained population growth and improving GDP numbers we are beginning to see an increase in effective rents particularly in our strong core markets such as Long Island South Florida Baltimore Washington Puerto Rico and Canada.
We also continue to make good progress in reducing our non-retail portfolio.
From $1.2 billion in early 2009 we now stand at $495 million representing less than 4.5% of our total assets.
Our largest remaining single investment the InTown Suites portfolio is attracting increasing levels of interest as we have now broadened the marketing efforts with our partner's permission and as hotel properties are again beginning -- being aggressively pursued by investors.
There are several parties which have conducted extensive due diligence and we are confident that we will be able to sell the portfolio in the near term.
At the property level InTown continues to perform very well with RevPAR increasing substantially.
We also have a significant number of other non-retail properties under contract which will further reduce the amount of the remaining non-retail portfolio.
Under Mike Pappagallo's leadership we are also making strong progress on our recycling initiatives.
In 2011 we sold 31 nonstrategic retail properties while at the same time we bought 17 high-quality shopping centers virtually all in our core markets.
We are committed to continuing to sell our nonstrategic shopping centers which will upgrade our portfolio and permit us to concentrate on superior properties in our core markets.
Internationally our Canadian portfolio is maintaining its very high occupancy and benefiting from strong retailer expansion highlighted by targets commitment to open 24 -- 25 stores in Canada each quarter beginning in March 2013.
The Canadian economy remains strong with 2% GDP growth forecast for 2012 continued low interest rates and moderate unemployment levels.
We are pleased that we are able to buy a high-quality grocery-anchored center in December in the Greater Vancouver market and we hope to close on another attractive grocery anchored center in Edmonton shortly.
In Mexico our retail portfolio is making leasing progress hitting 84% combined occupancy in the fourth quarter including several new developments.
The Mexico economy is strong with 3.9% GDP growth in 2011 higher than that of Brazil for the first time in 8 years.
The strengthening currency and strong retail sales performance.
Overall Mexico same-store retail sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter and 5% for the full year.
We are seeing increased leasing demand from national international anchors and sub-anchors.
Interestingly anchor retailers in our Mexico portfolio pay percentage rents exceeding $2 million in 2011.
And as I like to remind everyone all of our leases in Mexico contained full annual cost of living escalators.
As we move forward into 2012 we feel very pleased with our results.
And we believe 2012 will be another year of increasing FFO.
Portfolio improvements and success in recycling capital to create a very high quality retail portfolio in our core markets where we have scale terrific demographics and strong retailer relationships.
On this call I would also like to acknowledge and formally thank Barbara Pooley for her hard work and contributions during her 5 years with the company.
Her departure was on good terms as reflected in the mutual and amicable separation document filed with the 8-K.
Barbara remains available to the company for advisory services and consultation for an extended period.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of our fourth quarter to be followed by Mike and Milton.
Thanks Scott Dave.
We hope you'll feel better quickly.
Our fourth quarter results demonstrate the continuation of the strategy that we set forth at our Investor Day almost 18 months ago.
The strategy that is focused on our property operating matrix which Dave has coined our vital signs such as occupancy same-site NOI growth and leasing spreads.
We continued monetization of non-retail assets and the disposition of nonstrategic retail assets while using the proceeds for acquisitions of shopping center properties in the key markets we have identified.
All these activities are being executed with an eye towards a strengthening balance sheet strong liquidity position and improved debt metrics.
I'm pleased to report we have been executing on all aspects of this strategy.
Let me expand upon the results noted in the earnings release.
Headline FFO per share came in at $0.33 for the quarter bringing headline FFO to $1.27 for the full year as compared to $1.21 for 2010 a 5% increase.
The fourth quarter 2011 headline amount includes $0.04 of transaction income and $0.01 of impairment charges.
The results I just mentioned have been adjusted to reflect a NAREIT revision to the FFO definition which now excludes impairments of depreciable operating assets and depreciable asset impaired in joint ventures.
We have adopted the revised definition and have adjusted previous periods to reflect the modification.
Our recurring FFO per share for the fourth quarter was $0.30 with a full year recurring FFO per share result of $1.20 compared to $1.14 for 2010 a 5.3% increase.
This meets the top end of our guidance range.
The recurring FFO increase is attributable to a 5.7% increase in recurring retail contributions fueled by positive results at the operating property level.
The revised NAREIT-FFO definition has no impact on recurring FFO and FFO per share.
Our shopping center metrics continue to improve.
Gross occupancy for the U.S.
portfolio increased 30 basis points from last quarter and is up 50 basis points from a year ago to 93.2%.
Gross occupancy on a combined basis including the U.S.
Canada and Latin America increased 30 basis points to 93.3%.
Same-site NOI growth was 1.6% on a combined basis representing the seventh consecutive quarter with positive results.
Our same-site NOI was negatively impacted by about 20 basis points due to the weaker Canadian dollar and weaker Mexican peso.
We also had positive leasing spread this quarter of 4.9% combined from new leases renewals and options.
I will net them toward our non-retail monetization objectives continue with the sale of $7 million of liquid bonds the return of our preferred equity capital plus a $9.6 million promote on one of our preferred equity investments the sale of several urban assets in our Canadian hotel portfolio.
In addition since year end we have monetized several other non-retail assets bringing the balance to $495 million or a reduction of over $300 million since the beginning of 2011 exceeding our annual target.
During the quarter we sold 5 nonstrategic retail assets from the consolidated portfolio and 2 others from joint venture programs for a total proceeds of $55 million.
For the year we disclosed the 31 nonstrategic retail assets.
Proceeds from the non-retail and nonstrategic asset sales were quickly put to work with the acquisition of 10 fully-owned assets from an aggregate purchase price of $204 million.
Our balance sheet and liquidity position is in excellent shape.
Our net debt to recurring EBITDA was at 6.2x.
If you pro forma in the EBITDA from the late fourth quarter acquisitions the metric stands at 6.1x.
We remain committed to a net debt to recurring EBITDA level of 6x by the end of this year.
As a result of the transaction income during the quarter the headline net debt to EBITDA was 5.5x.
We have an excess of $1.4 billion of immediate liquidity to our recently renewed revolving credit facility.
Our consolidated debt maturities are well staggered with only $350 million of maturing debt this year mostly in the latter half of the year.
And bank market and public capital markets are open with noticeable spread tightening for unsecured bonds and perpetual preferred issuances.
This may present an opportunity later in the year for us when our 7 3/4% perpetual preferred insurance becomes callable in October.
We will continue to monitor closely the capital markets.
Lastly I'd like to provide additional color around guidance.
As a result of our completed property-by-property detailed budget process we are reaffirming 2012 recurring FFO per share guidance of $1.22 to $1.26.
This guidance is based solely on recurring flows and does not assume transaction income or impairment charges if any.
Assumptions used in determining this guidance range include an increasing combined portfolio occupancy of 50 to 100 basis points by the end of 2012 and combined positive same-site NOI growth of 1.5% to 3.5% providing a mid-point increase of 4% from recurring retail flows.
We anticipate a decrease in the non-retail contribution as a result of the continued monetization of these assets including the InTown Suites portfolio and the continuation of the capital recycling plan.
As a result our capital plan assumes no new equity requirements.
These assumptions support our dividend level of 19% -- $0.19 per quarter.
And now I'll turn it over to Mike for his report on the shopping center portfolio.
Thanks Glenn.
On the operating side we are pleased with the solid finish in 2011 in terms of the portfolio metrics of occupancy leasing spreads internal growth and the investment and disposition activity as reported to you last night.
Lease occupancy improved across the board both anchor spaces and small shops as well as overall in our strategic portfolio.
The 70 basis point increase in the overall U.S.
occupancy rate over the past year was driven by both positive absorption as well as the effective dispositions of the bottom tier of the portfolio.
Another encouraging sign is the continuing deceleration of vacancies of smaller box users coming out of the holiday season.
Vacates of space under 10 000 square feet for the first quarter were at their highest in the first quarter 2009 with 645 000 square feet then dropped to 557 000 square feet in 2010 and 361 000 square feet last year.
Through January of 2012 we are trending even better than that providing a bit of positive news in the health of this component of our tenant mix.
And as a fun fact I would offer that not only is our portfolio getting healthy but so too are the consumers visiting our centers.
Loss of square footage since 2009 in the small spaces included many video books and music shops all sedentary-type activities.
Some big net gainers in that same timeframe include specialty health and spas yogurt shops and weight reduction centers just in case you are wondering.
The recycling process both continues and will be continuous.
This is not a one-shot initiative.
And the asset decisions are driven by each regional president's assessment of their own portfolio strengths and weaknesses.
A great example is in our Southeast and Florida region.
Over the past year Paul Puma and his team have sold 10 properties with 5 more slated for the first half of 2012 which combined represent about 1.2 million square feet and $8 million of net operating income.
The total sales proceeds of $95 million has partially funded the $133 million of the region's purchase of new centers that will generate about $9.5 million in NOI.
While the sale cap rates were around $9 million and the purchase cap rates were about $7 million we moved out of poor markets with either weak anchors or chronic vacancy into well-leased and well-positioned assets in our core markets.
The U.S.
same-site net operating income of 1.1% for this past quarter as well as the third quarter was nicked a bit by the effect of the borders and A&amp;P bankruptcies which shaved about 60 basis points from the fourth quarter number.
That said the news on those spaces is good.
We have now signed new leases with supermarket users for each of the 3 A&amp;P lease rejections totaling 150 000 square feet.
Of the 16 Borders we now have 4 leases executed and we expect another 8 done by mid-2012.
At this point the composite releasing spreads are actually a slight positive contrast that with the 15% to 20% downside on the Linens N Things and Circuit City boxes from 2 years ago.
This reflects the quality of the real estate and the changing market per space.
The interest level in these boxes underscore what we and other landlords have been saying for a while that there is continued demand by retailers for space and a declining inventory to satisfy it.
Within the Kimco portfolio the number of anchor spaces 10 000 square feet and greater as we define it has been reduced to a little over 100 boxes or just 2.7% of the total GLA which essentially means that opportunity is to capture stronger retailers and concepts will be more from rollover or recapture of maturing leases and yes even more bankruptcies.
That may not result in big increases in reported occupancy but more a continuous repositioning and value creation opportunities within the existing shopping center portfolio.
We're seeing that in a couple of very recent examples.
In Pompano Florida we negotiated a termination of an announced Kmart closing with limited term left and are currently pursuing a redevelopment for a supermarket and hard goods retailer.
Conversely in San Diego we took a longstanding dark and paying supermarket at a location with a 2012 lease end date and re-let it to a fitness club alongside a sporting goods co-tenant at a much higher spread.
And considering the ongoing action in anchor leasing and retention the big pushes in the smaller spaces ranging from redoubling our efforts in the traditional approaches pursuing alternative use combining spaces where economically viable and sometimes demolishing and refocusing available land for out-parcels.
2012 will be very much a year of working the small details the nickels and dimes of shopping center leasing and management.
And beyond traditional approaches we're also pursuing any and all angles to secure new users and enhance shopping center performance with a series of initiatives ranging from preapproving locations with franchisors to market to potential users mobile marketing technology and site-specific programs to support mom and pops and ancillary income from cell tower solar trash management and other programs.
And finally in our Mexico portfolio our team met their goals for leasing by signing 732 000 square feet of new deals and driving the composite occupancy rate to 84.4%.
Our target is an additional 800 000 square feet for 2012.
With that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
We are in an environment of low interest rates.
There is little inflation and there are signs of improvement in the job market and other economic indicators.
Much more is needed but we are heading in the right direction.
If the trend is confirmed and continues all commercial real estate will benefit.
Of course we have no control over the economy but what we do control are where our focus must lie is in our portfolio and our strategy.
And what does that mean for Kimco? One continue improving our key portfolio operating metrics.
Two continue our momentum of exiting our non-retail assets and our nonstrategic shopping centers.
Three anticipate the ever-changing landscape of retail and seize opportunities as we have done on so many occasions in the past.
Overall we feel very good about the prospects of many of the retailers and their increasing need for space restaurants health clubs service businesses such as dry cleaners all are relatively immune to the Internet in a rapidly growing [indiscernible].
The positive news is that there is an essentially no development -- new development as I expected and specifically there have been no new malls built within the past several years and some of the existing mall tenants are seeking space enabling community shopping centers to meet their expansion needs.
With relatively few new retail developments and continued population growth there should be improvement in both occupancy and rents.
I also believe that cap rates will compress.
The spread between 10-year treasuries and cap rates is simply too high compared to historic trends -- spreads.
My sense is that it is good to control close to 1 billion square feet of land in a growing country.
We continue to seize opportunities with weak retailers with strong real estate using our extensive experience and contacts in the bankruptcy arena.
We recently took back 3 leases in both the Syms and A&amp;P bankruptcies that will allow us to either redevelop the centers or simply re-lease at higher rents.
We are continuing our program of rationalizing our portfolio by selling nonstrategic assets.
Now let's look back and note what we have achieved since the depth of the great recession.
Since the S&amp;P 500 index reached its lows in March 2009 Kimco's total return of 182% compares very favorably to the S&amp;P 500 total return of 74% over the same time period.
We also outperformed the NAREIT Index.
We've been through many cycles and we now have more than 20 years' experience of being a public company and celebrated our anniversary last year.
It was a special celebration for all of us at Kimco and we're excited about our future and the prospects for our company.
And we that we will be delighted to answer any questions that you may have.
Cynthia we're ready to move on to the question-and-answer portion of the call please.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Milton you just said you expect cap rates to compress further and I was wondering if maybe you can add a little color there.
And then just to the extent that you think that that is upcoming will that affect your acquisition and disposition appetite? Do you expect cap rates to compress? Would you kind of hold back a bit on dispositions and wait for that or similarly kind of accelerate or change the target set for acquisition? Let me answer the latter part of the question first.
It will not affect our desire and momentum to exit the nonstrategic assets and the lesser quality assets.
Our objective is to have the highest-quality portfolio.
And I do think that cap rates as I mentioned as a spread -- if you're buying a cap rate of 7% let's say or even 6% it's still a spread of over 400 basis points at the lower end of the treasuries.
And when you consider the possibilities of inflation the fact that there is a tax savings and having depreciation and real estate assets that residual value should increase as the country grows.
We will have 39 million poor people in America at the end of the 10 years.
It's more than the population in Canada and Australia.
So residual value I'll tell you.
So that is my thesis for my view that cap rates will compress.
And Paul we're seeing it every month in terms of the high-quality centers we're bidding on.
There's more and more bidders for those very high-quality centers and cap rates continue to drift down.
We will take our next question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Michael Billerman as well.
My question just focuses on the small shop occupancy so maybe for Mike.
In terms of the occupancy in the quarter sequentially I think it was up about 70 basis points.
Obviously there's been some changes in terms of asset acquisitions and sales.
So first I'm not sure if you had a -- like a same property what the occupancy increased by over the quarter? And then as you looked to 2012 guidance can you give us sort of an expectation of where you think small shop occupancy's going to move throughout the year? Quentin my first question back to you is were you looking for same-site occupancy for the smaller spaces only? Research Division</strong> Yes just for the small spaces.
Yes I've not broken that down at that level.
What I can tell you is that the increase in the small store occupancy and even the anchor occupancy came about I would suggest half and half.
Half from positive absorption and half from the disposition activity as we sell some of these poorly occupied centers this nonstrategic part of our portfolio where we're gaining disproportionately if you will in the small store vacancies.
So while I didn't give you the numbers I think we could take from the comment that a lot of the improvement has come from addition by subtraction.
Now your question on 2012 with respect to targets and the underlying assumptions of small ticket leasing.
Glenn had pointed out that the overall occupancy increase is going to be 50 to 100 basis points.
That's a combination in our planning of both positive absorption as well as that ongoing disposition activity.
Again I think it'll probably be a half and half proposition with the high end the high-end improvement of the occupancy reflecting more aggressive disposition activity.
Hopefully that helps.
We will take our next question from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You had commented on the progress in Mexico.
I was wondering when do you think the leasing levels of Mexico will be sort of in line with the rest of your portfolio? And are there any challenges to getting there? Or -- and what's the concentration of vacancy like small shops whatever? Our budget is to try to get to a 90% level for the entire basket.
And you have to remember the entire basket has some recently completed property.
So that's why it's not there yet.
Leasing is accelerating.
We feel very good as we said in the remarks.
We're seeing increasing activity from Mexican retailers as well as the continued activity from the international retailers.
And we're seeing a pickup in Mexico just like the U.S.
in the small shop leasing.
The challenges to getting there obviously especially in an election year in Mexico is possible turmoil in Mexico.
But honestly it really seems that they're just powering through the headlines that you may see.
And it's helped by the fact that Mexico continues to be under stored by any metric you want to look at compared to the U.S.
And the underlying economy is strong with sustained GDP growth between 3% and 4% low unemployment manufacturing basis coming back very strongly there.
So we feel good.
So test us if we get to the 90% level by year end.
But that's our firm goal.
And just one other thing to add to that Craig in terms of reaching that goal and if you will to your point about catching up to the rest of the portfolio.
If things proceed as planned it's really a 2013 2014 type full stabilization point across the entire portfolio where we hope that U.S.
occupancies and Mexico occupancies will be flat and then termed indistinguishable as long as results will be good.
But that's our timeframe.
We will take our next question from Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the hotel portfolio.
It sounds like the interest has increased as you broaden the marketing.
Can you give us a sense of perhaps pricing as you compare to where you were last summer and maybe some expectation for timing? Well you hit the 2 things that really make us firmly believe that we will get this baby sold this year.
One is that the whole market has picked up since the second half of last year when the CMBS market imploded and we were headed towards another downturn.
But we're seeing the exact opposite right now.
There's an increasing level of interest in the hotel portfolio.
And with our partner's new permission we have broadened the marketing effort and we do have a number of very interested parties.
Our pricing remains exactly what we established before which will get us out whole in terms of our book investment and maybe a little more if we're lucky.
Underneath it as we mentioned the properties are doing very well.
The RevPAR is increasing substantially.
And I think that's what's going on as there's the hint of recovery out there.
Investors are looking at hotel assets which can be priced daily or in our case weekly as possible inflation heads.
In our case even at our price you're buying way below replacement costs and it's an established brand and a platform and so forth.
So we feel good about making something happen with this relatively soon.
I mean from a modeling standpoint in our guidance we modeled in that it will get sold sometime during the third quarter.
We will take our next question from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on some of the prior questions so just to be clear on 2012 guidance.
I'm wondering if you could talk about just for the U.S.
portfolio what is your same-store NOI growth and your occupancy outside expectation? And then if you could also provide a total dollar volume for non-core and nonstrategic disposition assumption for 2012? On the U.S.
same-store NOI and Glenn gave you the range of 1.5 to 3.5 and our base case in the U.S.
lands right in the middle of that range and that's why we range that out at such.
So for us the upside case in the U.S.
is really accelerating the timing of getting some of the leases that were signed late in '11 as well as some of the planned leases signed in early '12 to get those commencing rent sooner than our plan.
And that's the primary driver more than it is occupancy increases.
The upside in occupancies was really just the level to anticipate if the economy continues to recover more strongly that will have a disproportion of positive effect in some of our small store strategies.
So a long way of saying Christy that the U.S.
piece of the puzzle is very consistent with the combined piece of the puzzle.
Glenn you want to comment on the disposition specification? Yes so in terms of non-retail disposition as we mentioned it was is $495 million of book value assets remaining.
We expect that have modeled in to sell around $250 million during 2012.
So it's going to bring the number almost in half.
And then on the nonstrategic retail assets we modeled in there about $250 million of sales as well.
So you can do that in conjunction with our overall capital plan.
That's why we just remain in this recycling program and no need for further equity at this point in time.
We will take our next question from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just going to look at the buyers of your non-core the stuff that you're selling.
Curious what -- how their financing? If they are cash buyers? If they're using local banks? Or if it's just by simply assuming the existing mortgage and maybe they don't have to put that much equity into it.
And as a follow-up to that the banks at least at the community bank level seemed to be -- everyone loves apartments.
Curious what their view is of shopping centers that -- of the type that you're selling.
Alex the predominant buyer of our shopping centers the quality smallish centers in our non-core markets are almost always local guys.
Local guys who either have capital available have a local banking relationship may be coming off a 1031 exchange of selling and other property.
But it is very very local.
Our strategy has been on a one-off basis because these assets are diverse.
There's no comment directed to them.
It's not a single market et cetera.
So because of that and we're oftentimes asked about how the CMBS market has affected our program or the capital availability in general it really hasn't.
The thing that more impacts the velocity of our program is the fact that because this is the bottom line of our portfolio there is on the normal course of business more tenants fall out.
There's more questions about viability of some of the smaller tenancies and the resiliency of whatever anchors are there.
So there's a lot of horse trading that goes on.
We tried to accelerate the process as best as we can.
And we'll need to make concessions in certain cases but we're committed to move.
It isn't financing that's going to drive the bus at least for this round of disposition.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as for as rate staying low for -- through potentially the end of '14 are you seeing -- Milton you spoke about cap rates coming down which makes sense just given the environment.
But are you seeing the lenders coming down commensurately? Or you see that gap between financing and cap rates widen? Alex it's Glenn.
I mean when you look at nonrecourse mortgage financing rates have definitely started to compress.
Spreads are starting to compress again.
As you know the market got pretty frozen again during the latter half of '11.
That has definitely thawed and there's a lot of activity again.
And you're starting to see spread compression both on the nonrecourse side and you're seeing spread compression even in the unsecured bond market even at the levels that treasuries are out today.
So I think the capital markets are actually in very very good shape.
And it also goes to the bank market.
Bank market spreads have also come in.
We will take our next question from Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually I just want to maybe follow up on Alex's question.
Can you talk about the spreads that you're seeing between cap rates between A and B and C centers? And maybe how that's changed in the last 3 to 6 months? I'm just curious if it's widening and tightening and maybe what's driving -- which segments are moving around most.
Jeff the lease as we see it through the lens of our disposition again with the peculiar nature of the property the cash of sale -- exit cap rates have generally hovered in the 9s as an average.
Some are less some are more.
Depending on what type of asset we're really exiting.
So it's remained relatively speaking at that level not withstanding some of the compression in financing spread.
So again because there's much more real estate risk associated with some of the assets.
As to the higher-quality property now the A the B pluses we're just echoing what Dave had said is as the continual slight to quality persists we're seeing more and more compression of cap rates.
So as Milton suggested as the cap rates are going down you're clearly seeing it on the front tier of the As and the B pluses.
What I would add cap rates and interest rates are tied at the hip.
And I think Glenn has pointed out to us that financing is available -- tenure financing is available at the fullest.
And if you have tenure available at the fullest you can readily determine that cap rates are going to be less than 7.
But it really is a tale of 2 cities out there the high quality very low cap rates and the B properties and secondary markets or tertiary markets limited bidders and higher cap rates.
We will take our next question from Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a little incentive how you're game planning for the remaining 48 Sears Kmart locations in your portfolio? Maybe how you stratify the stores between easier relief and those that might languish for a while? Well we do have a business plan for each and every Kmart location.
Primarily our exposure is Kmart.
There's a handful of Sears but there is a game plan and they are in different buckets.
Milton if you want to...
Well again the Sears are very tiny portion.
And so far as Kmart is concerned there are 2 aspects.
One they have credit and when we look at their credit it's still a $4.4 billion equity market cap.
And thus far they have not closed any of the stores in our market indeed in Pompano.
We paid to cancel the lease to Kmart and we're replacing that with a very aggressive supermarket and sporting goods.
We redeveloped that very well.
So you get back to the fundamentals of real estate.
And when the real estate is good and the rents are good we should be able to recycle those that are closed.
There has only been one closed in our portfolio.
And if you remember in 2002 when Kmart went bankrupt the very high rent leases or the very poorest performing stores were rejected at that point.
So the portfolio at that time that we were left with was a very high-quality portfolio either in terms of very low rents or very good location.
And we just want to assure everybody we are being very proactive about this.
And to the extent we can take back some of these properties early we will do so and they should find good homes.
Another comment on the Sears Kmart credit.
You must remember one that Sears owns a very large bank in Sears Canada that has wonderful assets and doing relatively better.
Two they have an Internet function that has been quite successful.
So that may be the reason why there is that $4.4 billion market cap.
We will take our next question from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I saw a gain on the sale of development properties in the income statement and it reminded me of the old KDI days.
And I'm curious I guess 2 things: One was that a KDI gain? And two how do guys think about KDI going forward? Is there a possibility we could see more life to the merchant development sort of concept? We haven't had a merchant building gain in quite a while.
This was a KDI asset.
So it wasn't merchant building asset and we had the opportunity to sell it.
It's an asset that is in our taxable REIT subsidiary.
And as we've always done merchant building gains have been included in FFO but only to the extent of the economic gain.
So will you see a lot more of it? Probably not.
There's not a whole lot of KDI assets that are left within the TRFs.
There's a few.
And we'll keep an eye on them as we go.
But again the main focus I think for us is that we continue to focus on the recurring flows and the gain again as part of the headline number but not in the recurring numbers.
Two comments.
One is we will probably very unlikely that we will ever go back into the trading business merchant building where we build and sell.
To the extent the economics makes sense we will build and hold.
We are a believer in the long-term recurring income especially if we're going to build a quality property.
We're going to hold that.
But just to clarify Glenn a lot of that gain in the numbers came from selling a KDI property into a new joint venture with SEB.
We will take our next question from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to your views on cap rates to the extent that GAAP perhaps between the not so good assets and the high-quality assets has continued to widen.
Does that make you want to accelerate your disposition program in order to increase the base with which you're investing in better quality properties? Yes I think we've -- we are accelerating it.
And we do believe that not withstanding these higher cap rates for the lower quality properties.
Interest rates are at historic lows.
Real estate is attracting capital again.
It's an inflation hedge as I mentioned an alternative investment that yield virtually nothing.
So it's a good time to sell not withstanding these higher cap rates.
And we can offset the dilution in many different ways.
And Cedrik I'll just again restate what I said earlier and what Milton said.
We continue to aggressively pursue the disposition of these assets.
We're not going to wait for any further lowering of cap rates.
Our biggest hurdle quite frankly is the fact that these are again a series of assets across the countries small and not in any one particular market.
It's very much a ground more of individual negotiation.
If I had an entire market I was getting out of then we'd probably package it up and market it to a different set of buyers.
We don't have that in this situation.
So we're moving as quickly as we can.
But it's going to be a lot of singles and doubles and not a lot of grand slam home run in any one transaction.
We'll take our next question from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question on Sears.
I apologize if I missed it.
But do you guys have an estimate of the mark-to-market on the remaining stores? I know it's quite low but...
In other words suggesting whether the market rents on the spaces are above or below the contract rent? Research Division</strong> I'm trying to get a sense of what the order magnitude is.
I mean obviously the leases are pretty low rental rates in place.
But just trying to get a sort of order magnitude sense of what the market rents would be today on those stores.
Well the average base rent Vincent is about $5.62.
So on balance we feel that market rent for the available space is higher.
Okay but that's a theoretical comment in the sense that since many of these leases still have a significant amount of term trying to extract their sales trying to get out of those leases so it's a little bit more of a difficult proposition.
But yes theoretically we feel that the market rent is higher now whether it's 10% 15% 20%.
That's tough to gauge because it's pretty diverse.
The one example we always like to give is depending on the market it could be substantially higher.
We only talk about the target that replaced the Kmart in Staten Island a very dense market with very limited supply.
And that upside was tremendous.
That was about 1 percentage of that.
I would say that it was 15x the prior rent.
Research Division</strong> I knew that.
So it varies across the board.
But I think it's safe to say what 75% 80% of these leases are below market.
Some of them significantly below market.
Do we have some that are above market? Sure.
But most of these are under market and not bad locations that we should be able to replace them relative easy if something happened.
And in the meantime we are being proactive on the stores that perhaps Kmart or Sears want to close trying to work with them trying to get the space back early if we can on a fair basis.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I dropped off the call so I apologize if this was asked already.
But Glenn can you walk through for 2012 guidance? What's embedded in there for investment activity so just thinking about either on balance sheet investment activity through to the funds non-core retail as well as non-retail? Well from an acquisition standpoint we've modeled in roughly $350 million of our investment dollars.
So that will be a mix of consolidated fully-owned properties as well as any capital that we would invest further with joint venture partners.
So that's our target.
On the disposition side as I mentioned roughly $250 million of non-retail assets to be monetized over the year as well as another $250 million of sales of nonstrategic retail assets.
We will take a follow-up question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Michael Bilerman.
I just want to come back to this debt yield and sort of asset yield cap rate spread.
And Milton I recognized you're not an economist and have been doing real estate for a few years.
But given the fact that the bottom market has been right about where our economy has been and going for the last 5 years what do you think the bond market is actually telling us with these sort of low rates? Are we sort of in this low inflation low growth type of market? Or are we simply having a technical bubble because we've have this massive globally induced policy that has pushed a thirst for yield and safety that's going to reverse and cause rates eventually will skyrocket.
And then given the fact that rates and cap rates are joined at the hip as you said we could be in for -- to your asset value compression.
So I'm just trying to figure out sort of where your mindset is about what the bottom market's telling us.
Well how much of it is influenced by the actions of the Fed and the government I'm not sure.
We all are aware that these rates can't last forever and that there will be much higher rates in the future.
Now coming back to the cap rates.
In the worst times and believe it or not I remember a time when prime was 21 when the 10-year treasury was north of 10%.
And even in those periods of extremely high interest rates on decent shopping centers it never went really above 10%.
There was -- people felt it was an asset.
They wanted a safe yield there were benefits of depreciation feeling there will be ultimate residual values.
So historically Michael even if you had it now as 10% is a long way off from 6% and 7% what I'm trying to put in perspective it doesn't mean that as rates run away that cap rates will go to 13% or 14% et cetera.
And the other thing that has happened the demand for real estate as a portion of total investments has increased.
The performance of REITs compared to other common stocks has been excellent.
You will not have any internal scandals.
You don't have to have any global crossings.
By and large there are management's with entrepreneurs and decent track records good characters and they do have yields.
So I -- while I'm a pessimist before the Great Depression I still feel optimistic that we're not going to revert to very high cap rates.
I hope I've answered it.
And I would just add that we're seeing an all-time high level of interest from life insurance companies pension funds and sovereign wealth funds getting back if you will into the real estate market as they look at -- look for higher yields.
There are alternatives in terms of treasuries and corporates are just so low and they're -- in many cases insurance companies need actuarially much higher yields.
So the level of interest that we've received in investing in again high quality is very high.
We will take our next question from Todd Lukasik with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the role that the local market leaders have in the capital recycling program in terms of identifying assets to sell and ones to purchase.
And I was just wondering if there are any sort of hard and fast targets or guidelines from corporate with regards to demographics of the markets or perhaps expected NOI growth with regard to those assets particularly on the acquisition side or whether or not that sort of decision made on a market-by-market and asset-by-asset basis.
We are trying to be more disciplined.
We've identified how many? 25 or so...
30.
Core markets that's basically consistent with some of the larger MSAs and with strong demographics.
So we've restricted our acquisition activity to those core markets with maybe one exception.
But in general we are going after where we have already scale where we have presence where we have long-term relationships and we like the long-term prognosis.
With respect to what the field in effect is identifying to sale there's lots of things that go into that calculation.
One is whether it's in one of our core markets or not.
Secondly whether they're possibly worried about the local neighborhood or the tenant mix or the anchor tenant or so forth.
It's -- they make their case about which properties they think we should sell and put into the nonstrategic bucket.
And we review that.
And I think Mike the bucket is pretty much fixed? Right.
It is fixed at this point in terms of what we rolled out from Investor Day on forward.
But one of the points that I made in my prepared remarks is that it is a continuous program.
And we will -- we asked our regional leadership to continually reevaluate the markets and submarkets their individual asset level business plan.
So this "portfolio" will expand and contract as need be.
So if you move beyond the straight white line about what's strategic what's nonstrategic the more important dimension to understand about where we are coming from is that recycling will be an ongoing part of the landscape going forward.
We are not simply accumulating for accumulation's sake.
Size does have advantages.
But it's not the be-all and end-all.
And we've really started to think more aggressively about how we create the optimal portfolio not the largest portfolio.
We will take a follow-up question from Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes just a question actually about your I think it's your fast-track leasing program.
I was curious how that works if all franchisees are preapproved and maybe how much business you feel you've done as a result? And is that really what's -- is that helping your small shop leasing activity? Yes we've recently launched that Jeffrey.
And essentially what we do is we -- the Kimco team reaches out to established franchisors to develop a program and get our locations preapproved based on the franchisor's criteria.
Then this facilitates marketing those spaces to the prospective franchisees.
So we've recently launched it.
I think we have about 16 different franchise concepts that are part of the program.
We are starting to see some traction in terms of access to our web page that this program links into wherein franchising events and conferences.
And we're starting to gain some traction in that regard.
It's one among a whole variety of things that we have been pursuing.
And almost all of these initiatives that I had mentioned before there are coming from the ground.
Deeper than that corporate-induced programs where say I'm sitting here in New Hyde Park coming up with the next great idea.
All of these ideas are bubbling up from our regional people who based on the market based on the needs are coming up with different ideas.
We test them out in maybe a market or a region.
And if we like what we see then we bring it across to the entire portfolio.
Our final question is a follow-up question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> One quick one.
The severance payment that's being paid to Barb.
How is that being treated sort of in guidance? Is that going to be a onetime thing this year? And can you just pounce on the size of the payout? I recognize she was a named executive but the size of the payout certainly was significantly in excess of when you include all the bells and whistles in there and certainly in excess of what was in the proxy so how that sort of came about.
Quentin it will show up in the first quarter as part of a onetime nonrecurring.
So we won't include it in our recurring FFO.
But it will show up in the headline number and impacted there.
And to just add to my remarks we do want to acknowledge that Barb made some wonderful contributions to our company over the years that she was here specifically in the property accounting group Latin America.
She was extremely helpful.
And most of you on the call know her from her investor relations activities which were second to none and we appreciate that.
At the end of the day they were just a number of things we didn't see eye to eye on.
And we're a generous culture.
And that's the form of the payment.
This will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Bujnicki I'll turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thanks Cynthia and to everyone who participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Kimco's First Quarter Earnings Call 2012.
Please be aware today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce your speaker for today Dave Bujnicki.
Please proceed Mr.
Bujnicki.
Thanks Vicky.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning is Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call represent the company and management's hopes intentions beliefs expectations or projections of the future which are forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors to better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
With that I now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for calling in today.
We are very happy with our first quarter results and we believe that they represent continued progress on our strategic goals and objectives.
Key items are highlighted in our earnings release but I would like to provide a general high-level economical review together with updated information on our disposition activities.
The shopping center industry as a whole and in our own portfolio continues to show solid signs of improvement.
The latest RBC research report on retailer expansion activity shows a slight increase in store opening plans with more than 70 000 new stores expected to open over the next 24 months.
It is fascinating to note that 2000 dollar stores alone are expected to open in the next 12 months.
The restaurant industry is also showing renewed health with major store expansion plans planned for Subway Five Guys Quiznos and many others.
At the risk of repeating some of our earnings call highlights I would like to emphasize our very strong first quarter operating and leasing metrics including same-site NOI growth of 2.9% representing 8 straight consecutive quarters of positive increases; new leasing spreads of 39.8%; and renewal on optional leasing spreads of 4.2%.
In general the benefits of positive GDP growth virtually no new retail construction and an increasing population are more than offsetting growing e-commerce sales and struggling local stores in certain geographic areas.
In most markets effective rents are increasing and our retail portfolio vital signs continue to improve.
We are focused and we are making great progress on the key elements of our business strategy selling our non-strategic shopping centers reducing our non-retail investments leasing up our Latin American development properties selectively acquiring high-quality retail properties and strengthening our balance sheet.
Our timing on our new preferred stock issue was great.
Thank you Glenn.
Specifically with respect to our non-retail portfolio another $28 million of investments were sold in the first quarter.
From $1.2 billion in early 2009 we are now at $485 million as of March 31 representing 4.2% of total assets.
The largest single non-retail asset remains our InTown Suites portfolio.
And as an update we are now in the second round of a formal auction marketing process with 3 well-qualified potential purchasers performing additional due diligence property inspections and management interviews.
We remain cautiously optimistic that we will be able to conclude negotiations favorably with 1 of the 3 potential buyers in the near future.
At the property level InTown continues to perform very well with RevPAR and other financial metrics increasing substantially.
I would also like to emphasize the strong success of our recycling initiatives.
Since our Investor Day in September 2010 Kimco has sold 53 non-strategic retail properties while acquiring 37 high-quality shopping centers almost all located in our long-term core markets.
For example in our home market of Long Island we acquired last year Independence Plaza a 245 000 square foot center anchored by Home Depot and a large King Kullen grocery store.
As another example we recently purchased our institutional partner's interest in Towson Place a 680 000 square foot landmark asset located in suburban Baltimore and anchored by Target Wal-mart T.J.
Maxx Marshalls Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and of Weis Market.
Quarter by quarter our portfolio is improving and being upgraded significantly as we concentrate and focus on superior properties in markets where we have scale physical presence retailer relationships and strong demographics.
Internationally our Canadian portfolio is maintaining its very high occupancy and excellent leasing metrics.
We were pleased to add an attractive 110 000 square foot grocery-anchored shopping center in Ottawa to our portfolio during the first quarter.
And yesterday we acquired a 140 000 square foot grocery-anchored shopping center in Edmonton the capital city of Alberta Canada.
The anchored tenant is Sobeys Canada's second largest food retailer with 1 300 locations.
In Mexico the country's GDP is healthy with a run rate of 3.5% to 4% and our development properties continue to achieve our lease-up targets.
We hope to be at 90% overall by year end.
Our largest South American project Viña del Mar in Chile is now 95% leased only 3 months after completion with tenant sales above expectations.
The project is very attractive and I encourage everyone on the call to visit Chile and our project if you contemplate a South American trip.
As we move into May we are very happy with our results.
We are confident that 2012 will be a good year for Kimco and that we will have success in growing our FFO improving the profile of our shopping center portfolio and maintaining our very strong balance sheet.
We are proud to be one of only 11 REITs rated BBB+ or better.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of our first quarter to be followed by Mike and Milton.
It is interesting to me to note that the 4 of us have now been doing these calls together for 11 years.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
2012 is off to a very solid start with positive same-site and a wide growth strong leasing spreads and further improvement in balance sheet metrics with a strong liquidity position.
We were productive in all aspects of our strategy from leasing to non-strategic shopping center sales to further monetization of non-retail assets.
In addition we opportunistically tapped the capital markets and sourced select acquisitions.
Let me provide some additional color.
Beginning this quarter we will use the term FFO as adjusted to represent recurring FFO as we will be including headline FFO and FFO as adjusted in our SEC filings.
FFO as adjusted was $0.31 per diluted share for the first quarter as compared to $0.30 last year.
FFO as adjusted excludes $7.4 million of transaction income related primarily to preferred equity and other promotes received during the quarter and $7 million of acquisition transaction costs and severance-related expenses.
Our headline FFO was also $0.31 compared to $0.30 last year.
The improved performance results from the increased recurring retail contribution provided at the operating property level.
Now while not included in either FFO number we had gains on sales totaling almost $20 million and impairments of about $10 million from the sale of 13 non-strategic shopping centers and 2 joint venture operating properties providing total proceeds as of $110 million.
The shopping center portfolio metrics continue to exhibit improving performance with U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 2.8% for the eighth consecutive positive quarter and the highest growth rate in 4 years.
The combined same-site NOI growth which includes Canada and Latin America was 3.6% before currency impact.
This metric was negatively impacted by 70 basis points due to currency bringing the combined same-site NOI growth of 2.9%.
Leasing spreads including new leases renewals and options were up 10%.
And gross occupancy came in at 93.1% up 30 basis points from a year ago.
We continue to chip away at the non-retail investments monetizing another $28 million this quarter bringing the remaining balance to under $485 million.
We expect to bring the non-retail investment balance down under $300 million by the end of the year representing less than 3% of gross assets.
We redeployed the proceeds from the non-retail and non-strategic asset sales by acquiring 4 U.S.
shopping center assets in our target markets a series of parcels net leased to restaurant operators and 1 shopping center asset in Canada for a total of $190 million including debt assumption of $59 million.
During the quarter we opportunistically tapped the perpetual preferred market issuing $400 million at a 6% coupon representing one of the lowest coupons in the REIT industry.
We intend to use the proceeds to redeem our 7.75% perpetual preferred when it becomes callable on October later this year.
In addition subsequent to quarter end we've closed on a new $400 million unsecured term loan priced at LIBOR plus 105.
This facility has initial term of 2 years and we have 3 1-year extension options at our election effectively giving us 5 years of term.
The proceeds from this term loan will be used to repay upcoming bond and mortgage maturities in the next 9 months with interest rates ranging in the 6% range.
The negative impact of these pre-fundings will be approximately $0.03 for 2012.
Our balance sheet metrics continue to strengthen with net debt to EBITDA as adjusted now at 5.4x and a solid fixed charge coverage of 2.6x.
We're ahead of schedule on our capital plan and our liquidity position is in great shape with over $2 billion of immediate liquidity available.
Thus barring a major transaction a trip to the capital markets is not needed in the near term.
With regard to guidance we are very pleased to reaffirm our FFO as adjusted guidance range of $1.22 to $1.26 per diluted share even with absorbing the $0.03 of dilution associated with the early funding of the perpetual preferred issuance and the term loan.
The FFO per share guidance does not include transaction income or expenses or non-cash charges for the redemption of preferred stock.
Our guidance assumptions do include combined same-site NOI growth expected at 1.5% to 3.5% increasing combined portfolio occupancy of 50 to 100 basis points and a decrease in the non-retail contribution due to the continued monetization of these assets.
And now I'll turn it over to Mike for his report on the shopping center portfolio.
Thanks Glenn.
2012 has kicked off with some pretty good momentum with respect to portfolio health and performance.
Compared to last year's first quarter the total gross occupancy was up 30 basis points and the U.S.
gross occupancy up 50 basis points.
And that reflects both an increase in net absorption and the positive effect of the disposition activity.
There was a modest decline in occupancy from the fourth quarter of 2011 but this is actually a good news story.
The driver of the decline was 100 000 square feet of space taken back from the Syms bankruptcy which affected locations at Manhasset in Long Island and Kendale Lakes in Miami.
And we expect to re-lease both of these boxes by the end of the year at lease rates much better than the Syms' rents.
Also encouraging is the gross occupancy of space less than 10 000 square feet which actually held steady at 83% from the fourth quarter.
There was positive impact from the sales of the properties.
Even on a net absorption basis the negative for these smaller spaces was less than 100 000 square feet which is the smallest post-holiday season net decline that is prior to the recession.
This comes on the heels of a full year 2011 which actually ended with a slight positive in net absorption over that 12-month period.
As we have discussed in prior calls addressing small space vacancies remains a key objective of the operating team.
You probably have seen the recent announcement of a program in California to support new business and entrepreneurs as well as our FastTrack franchising concept.
We're also exploring mobile and other technologies that could help drive traffic to our centers and provide added value to our tenants and to shoppers who visit the centers.
We made strong inroads this past year in using social media to elevate awareness of the Kimco brand and to communicate with potential and current tenants in the industry in general.
Back to the operating metrics.
The leasing spreads continue to be a good story.
And for this quarter the new leasing spreads look off the charts due to the impact of a leased signed with Target at a property in Staten Island.
Even without this lease new deal spreads were positive 9.2%.
As for renewals and options the spreads were a positive 4.2%.
For this latter metric we've continued to show steady progress over the past 5 quarters and I believe underscores the fact that we're working through a good part of the necessary mark-to-market on rental rates signed at the top of the market about 5 years ago.
Now to velocity again it was encouraged by the rate of activity.
After trending slow for much of January and February we ended the quarter with 523 deals for almost 5.5 million square feet.
This compares to 459 deals in the first quarter of 2011 for 3.7 million square feet.
These numbers are gross square footage not pro rata as reported in the release.
You probably heard enough times over the past 1.5 year we continue to see good demand from the stronger players in most categories primarily from box retailers and also for certain grocery chains such as Whole Foods and many of the food and personal service-type franchise concepts.
You also heard the U.S.
and composite same-site NOI numbers.
The 2 biggest drivers in the U.S.
number were the positive effect on recoveries due to significantly less snowfall in 2012 than 2011 particularly in the Northeast as well as the combined effect of higher rents and improved credit experience.
Also recognize that the first quarter this year was impacted by the Borders vacancies as most of the new deals signed are not lowering rents yet.
The result would have been better by about 50 basis points.
As we reported earlier this month 2 of the 50 stores announced by Best Buy Foreclosure was Kimco locations one of which we own in full and one in a joint venture that has quite a bit of term left on the lease.
We continue to work with Best Buy to assist in downsizing efforts with 3 locations in Missouri and Texas at or near execution with new tenants signed up for the 10 000 square feet taken back.
In Canada the retail focus remains on target particularly as we are getting close to the time many seller stores will close throughout the 9 months to prepare for the store conversion.
While we expect some drop in foot traffic in the short term we eagerly anticipate the increased draw once the Target stores open at 9 of our centers in 2013.
We were pleased to increase our Canadian investment position over the quarter not only through the acquisitions of the grocery-anchored center in Ottawa that Dave mentioned but we also increased our ownership position in 2 existing properties jointly owned with our partner Anthem Properties.
From an operational perspective the results remain wonderfully boring with high occupancies double-digit leasing spreads and a 4.6% same-store NOI even with the negative effect of exchange rates in the period.
Mexico is on plan.
We picked up 90 basis points in composite occupancy since December including the properties not yet stabilized up to 85.3%.
Overall NOI growth on a local currency basis grew about 11%.
But this time through we were knocked around by a weaker peso which was down about 10% from the comparable first quarter of 2011.
From a leasing-production perspective the pickup in activity appears sustainable which reflects the positive economic pace in the country.
Leasing velocity is expected to accelerate throughout the rest of the year with numerous package deals in discussion for junior box users in addition to advance negotiations on 250 000 square feet with the department stores in Liverpool and Palacio de Hierro.
With that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
When I reflect on our results the word that comes to my mind is quality.
Quality in our portfolio and quality in our people.
Permit me to comment on my definition of quality for our portfolio.
Quality depends on a safe growing cash flow from tenancies and a growing residual value.
We continue to monitor our portfolio for that metric.
And when we perceive risk we move with dispatch to sell that property.
Quality does not necessarily equate to higher rate rents.
For a long time we have trumpeted the inherent value in having low contract grids [ph] that are substantially below market.
We have had the evidence this quarter of the reality that value can be embedded in long-term below-market leases.
For years we have had a net effective annual rent of less than $100 000 per annum on a 100 000 square foot store in Staten Island.
A new ground lease has become effective for the same facility to a large national retailer at an annual rental of $2 million a year.
I think you get our point.
Now permit me to list 4 items to add some additional color on our portfolio and on our business.
One 10% of all of our rents are derived from properties in the New York metropolitan area which has large barriers to entry and relatively low retail per square foot capita and high disposable income per capita.
Over the next 10 years it is anticipated that New York metropolitan area will grow by an additional million people.
Two we have just over 750 spaces in which we own the land and we had tenants who have expended all of the funds to build buildings complete the cyclic lighting et cetera.
I'm referring to our ground leases.
These ground leases for the most part have escalations in rent.
It's a wonderful safe quality investment despite rents being low when compared to store leases.
Three we are uniquely equipped because of decades of experience with express retailers with good real estate to create profitable opportunities.
Some examples have been Hechinger Ames Montgomery Ward Strawbridge &amp; Clothier Venture Stores Gold Circle Frank's Nursery Service Merchandise and others.
Four our size and national presence makes us unique and allows us to pursue opportunities when they arise.
Now as Mike alluded in his remarks earlier we recently launched the KEYS program in California an innovative incubator program for aspiring entrepreneurs seeking to link -- launch their first retail venture.
Kimco will work with entrepreneurs on the initial planning concepts selecting locations obtaining permits from the city and advise them on the different stages of building a business.
Kimco has formed alliances with colleges universities and business organizations that will provide -- support the future business owner before during and after the start of the process.
I just love this initiative.
Now we are mindful of the risk that the Internet poses to bricks and mortar.
We monitor the category of retailers that are most vulnerable electronic stores bookstores et cetera.
We focus on those tenants that are relatively immune from e-commerce competition.
That category are restaurants service businesses warehouse clubs supermarkets medical facilities and fitness centers.
There's also quality in our people our off-balance sheet asset.
In addition to my partners Dave Mike and Glenn we have energetic regional presidents.
Conor Flynn in the West Bob Nadler in the Midwest Paul Puma in the Southeast and Tom Simmons in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast divisions.
Each of them has experience passion and entrepreneurial flow in what they do.
There is a support team of dedicated staff who make all of us proud.
We got our own special creation and we do not follow the fads at the time.
We have a talented team that can seize opportunities and we have liquidity of over $2 billion and will provide the capital available for our team to seize the opportunities.
We own quality real estate and we have an opportunistic vent that has and should over time exceed the expectations of our constituencies.
So with that we're delighted to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from R.J.
Milligan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the leasing spreads in terms of is there a specific geography or types of tenants where it's easier to push rents? Or ones that are more sticky? R.J.
I'll take that one.
I wouldn't say that there is any one specific geography or type of tenant that we experienced this year.
What we saw was a continuation of a general pattern over the past 12 to 15 months where most of the positive spreads were coming from the big box and junior box positions.
On the smaller stores it's been somewhat of a push with roughly an equal number of new leases that are positive versus negative.
And when you get into the smaller stores arena the differences can still be seen in certain of the tougher markets in Florida and in California and in Arizona.
Again reflecting the fact that at the height of the market those were the ones that had the highest rents.
And more the barriers to entry markets in the New York metropolitan area the D.C.
market and certain pockets in South Florida we're finding the strongest activity.
But again that's in the smaller spaces.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you give us an update or a little bit more detail on the InTown Suites portfolio sale how the hotels are doing on a performance metrics? The performance metrics are really excellent and we're very very pleased with what's going on there.
Year-over-year the numbers are up substantially.
The hotel business is measured in what they call RevPAR.
So those metrics are looking very very good.
In fact this morning I just got April's results.
Year-to-date occupancy average room rate RevPAR are all up consecutively.
2.2% 5% 7.3% all respectively.
So we're very happy with what's going on at the property level.
And as I mentioned in terms of the sale process we're into a second round now with 3 qualified buyers doing more extensive due diligence and spending their own money to pursue this transaction.
So we're cautiously optimistic.
It's been a long road but you have to understand we're selling a company here.
It's not just a number of hotel properties.
It's an entire organization and company headquartered in Atlanta.
So there's complexities when you're selling a company an additional real estate.
Next we'll hear from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if you can comment on where you're seeing acquisition cap rates versus the non-core retail dispositions what the spreads have been between grocery and centers and power centers? And given that market cap rate compression has continued for the good-quality well-located assets that you would want to buy are you increasingly talking to any JV partners without buying interest and properties? I know you've done some of that.
I'll touch upon the acquisition versus the disposition cap rate.
As we and others have said that there continues to be downward pressure on cap rates for the highest quality properties.
The preponderance of what we've acquired over the past 15 months has been a grocery anchored bend for -- at least for a significant food component.
And most of those assets are going off in -- anywhere from the low 6s to the 7 cap rate range.
And the reason why that range is pretty wide is that we have very much focused on negotiated transactions and we think we've gotten a little bit of a benefit so to speak in terms of the going-in cap rate.
This contrast and compares within disposition program as we've said the lesser quality assets that really [indiscernible] matter these dispositions are averaging in the 9-ish handle in terms of exit cap rate.
So those are the differences in terms of what we've seen.
And there continues to be an increasing amount of interest across the spectrum but in particularly with the higher quality properties and the better markets a lot of demand and it's not -- it's reasonable to expect those cap rates to continue to remain low or get lower.
Dave you might want to comment on the joint venture side of the equation.
Institutions of all shapes and sizes continue to come in -- come back into the real estate market.
Pension funds life insurance companies sovereign wealth so forth.
They see real estate as hard assets inflation hedge and good cash yielding compared to alternative investments these days.
So we continue to see lots of institutional investor interest in working with us to acquire some of these properties that are very high priced.
And for us when we look at these acquisitions we do look at them in 2 respects.
One is if we do it ourselves and secondly if we use an institutional partner to enhance our yield.
Next we'll hear from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman with Quentin.
I don't know who wants to take this maybe Dave.
Can you spend some time just talking about this net lease restaurant portfolio you bought? Just the tenants the credit the locations what real opportunity there is? Is this just sort of flat sort of leases? Or is there a certain redevelopment play? Are they master leased? What sort of yield did you go in at? And then maybe just step back and just talk about the bigger picture of how this sort of fits into your -- it's really been very successful in terms of refocusing the company as well as investors and analysts on the core shopping center business and in terms of disposing a lot of what I'd say non-retail but single-site assets.
Is it really worth it to buy 63 individual net leased restaurants and devote capital and energy to it relative to the shopping center business? Sure.
I think there's lots of questions embedded in there.
But let me start at the very highest level.
As you know Michael we have hundreds and hundreds of restaurant leases of all shapes and sizes in our portfolio both ground leases where the restaurants have been built on our net lease sites and store leases.
As a general category restaurants are doing very well these days as more and more people eat out.
And they're also relatively immune to the threat of Internet and e-commerce.
So we like it as a tenant category.
In this particular case we were able to purchase on a negotiated basis and what we think is a very opportunistic basis these 63 net leases from a financial institution that wanted to sell them.
The cap rate was just under 9% and it's very high-quality restaurant portfolio.
We have as you know with 50 years of experience in underwriting these types of tenants that we were able to look carefully at the real estate and be very comfortable with what's going on in this portfolio of restaurants.
So we don't see this as a huge program.
But as you know we've always had an opportunistic culture.
And we look at opportunities as they come up.
It is retail real estate.
It's a -- we can underwrite it.
Many of these properties are in shopping centers.
They're no different than the out parcels we already have that are leased to restaurants.
So it fits very nicely with what we have.
These leases in many cases have nice escalators built into these net leases.
And from a time and management standpoint net leases are always a lot simpler.
You're collecting checks monthly and the tenants worry about almost all of the needs including capital needs of the property.
So we like the business in general.
We like the category.
Please don't look at this as a whole new transformation of the company because it's not.
It's just one individual opportunistic investment that we made at an accretive cap rate.
Research Division</strong> Well can you share a little bit more details on -- I mean how many different tenants? Is it 1 tenant? Are they master leased -- I understand the restaurant business has been relatively stable.
But you have a lot of bankruptcies going back through the recession whether it be Friendly's Real Mex Fuddruckers Applebee's iHop I mean there's a laundry list of restaurants that sort of went bankrupt over the last few years.
Sure I'd be happy to give you more color.
And remember we carefully underwrote this package.
And I will make the point that we started with far more than 63.
We whittled it down to the 63 that we felt were the best 63 of this very large portfolio we had an opportunity to take a look at.
They're located in 24 different states great spread of risk 20 different brands.
61% of the rent comes from corporate owners the franchisor if you will whereas 39% comes from franchisees.
So there's a spread there.
The cap rate as I mentioned is just under 9% and an 8.8%.
The average price we paid is $1.1 million.
36% of the revenue comes from shopping center pad sites as I mentioned out parcels.
32% of the revenue comes from very high traffic interstate locations where you get off an exit for instance and you have a Wendy's or something like that.
The largest tenant with 12 locations is Wendy's followed closely by Burger King with 9 locations.
The biggest geographic concentration is Texas with 17 locations.
We like Texas long-term a lot the demographics and so forth.
So hopefully that gives you a little flavor.
The average rent per location is about $102 000.
Next we'll hear from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Dave I hate to even ask this question but I'm wondering if you have any comments on the Wal-Mart allegations down in Mexico and if Kimco had conducted any reviews.
Maybe not so much of your local Mexico employees maybe my concern is more toward JV partners to make sure that they're operating to the same high ethical standards that Kimco has always operated towards.
Yes.
We -- obviously we anticipated this question.
So permit me to be very very specific in a response.
I'd like to make the following points.
One the extent of what we know about the Wal-Mart actions is what we read in the New York Times article the same way you did.
We are not aware of any Wal-Mart improprieties with respect to any of our Mexican properties or any of our Mexican operating partners.
The acquisitions and development of the Wal-Mart projects in our portfolio occurred in 2005 or later.
And this is the year after the activities that were described in the article occurred.
With respect to all of our Wal-Mart projects the developer obtained the building permit not Wal-Mart.
We employ a third-party consultant to oversee the construction process.
This is a construction manager in many cases right on site that reviews and approves every payment we make on these development projects.
We also have our own Kimco employees provide asset management and oversee the project construction and approve the individual payments.
As part of our normal operating procedures all of our local Mexican development partners execute letters certifying to us they are not aware of any kind of improper payments.
We have a very comprehensive FCPA policy Foreign Corrupt Practices Act policy at Kimco that includes extensive training for all of our employees that are directly or indirectly involved with any international projects.
The training includes members of senior management and our board are taken through this training on an annual basis.
And now I just have to zoom up to the highest level.
From the very beginning when we went to both Canada and Mexico and then South America we really have tried to set the right tone because we've always emphasized that we're a public company and as a public company we adhere to the highest ethical standards and we expect that all of our local operating partners to also meet those standards.
So that gives you the highest level of flavor I can give you at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for you Dave.
Urban retail street retail has gotten a lot of press and it's gotten kind of hot.
There's other landlords that are interested.
You guys have some that I know you've been selling down.
But I'm curious do you continue to sell that down? Do you maybe turn around and try to identify some of your own acquisitions in street retail that might be interesting? Well you really have to differentiate when you say that.
We continue to be in some very urban locations with our typical property type.
And we like that and we plan to stick with it.
What we have been selling down are generally these mixed-use development properties that we acquired several years ago in Philadelphia New York a couple in Boston and a couple in Chicago.
These generally were the first story to be retail but second third fourth fifth story to be either apartments or office or another property type.
And we just really didn't have the expertise or the right partner to develop these properties out.
It's not our core expertise.
So street retail in and of itself remain something we would be happy to look at in markets that are our core markets.
But in terms of significant mixed-use development activities where we're putting office or residential on top of retail that's just not what we're about and that's what we've been selling.
Next we'll hear from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the -- just the kind of core -- your guidance for the year is 1.5% to 3% for same-store NOI.
You're pretty constructive it sounds like in terms of what you're seeing in leasing and in the momentum at least for small shops.
You reported 2.9 in the first quarter.
I mean is there any reason to keep you cautious that that low end is still realistic? Or I mean based on the trends that you reflected from the first 4 or 5 months of the year do you think the high end is sort of a more reasonable target both in terms of occupancy but especially in kind of the same-store NOI number? Well I would make a very general comment.
Like everybody else it's an uncertain environment today.
We're cautiously optimistic that the economy will continue its recovery.
But it's certainly -- it's very soft and very fragile and there are some items out there in the world that make us want to be conservative as we project that.
Yes.
Also I would add -- just take a look at the first quarter.
I mean currency definitely has an impact especially as we continue leasing up in Mexico and the other countries that we're in.
We had a 70 basis point negative impact.
Without that we would have been 3.6.
So the reason we had that range and it's wide at 1.5 to 3.5 is we just can't predict currency.
So it is clearly a part of it.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like more macro or foreign exchange that's driving kind of the range rather than -- if it were just based on kind of what you're seeing on the ground from a core perspective it would be narrower and higher.
I think that's fair.
We are pleased with what we're seeing on the ground today.
Next we'll hear from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the volumes very strong renewal volumes this quarter.
Just wondering if you'd tell us what the retention ratio was there and whether or not you think that can hold for the rest of the year? And then on new leasing volumes it looks like on a trailing 12 you had about 3.5 million square feet.
I just want to know if that's how you're thinking about it for this year or if that goes up relative to the last 12 months? Yes.
With this year on the renewal aside Vince I think it's about a 90% retention rate.
And we've had -- there was a significant amount of lease ends that we were able to renew.
And I think that in effect reflects on a macro level some of the availability of other locations or lack of availability for certain locations for existing tenants to prospectively move.
So there was a lot of volume and a very very high retention rate.
And that has been higher than what we've seen historically.
So that -- I think that's the good news in the equation.
And as for the full year volume to 3.5 or so that you mentioned.
That's probably a rough order -- a rough order adjust is the right number.
That is based on our leasing plan for 2012.
Next we'll hear from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Given the appetite from joint venture capital or institutional capital at this point is selling a stake into some of the properties you currently wholly own in order to form a joint venture and harvest the income is that a possibility at this point for you? I'm sorry I missed part of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So given the appetite from institutional sources have you contemplated a packaging a number of wholly owned property that you currently own and put that into joint venture in order to derive fee income and in order to enhance your joint venture partnership program? Yes.
I mean I think you've seen today matter fact RioCan announced a new joint venture with Kimco where we sold them an 80% interest in one of our original merchant development projects in Texas.
So that's an example of continued activity we have in the joint venture program.
And yes we are selectively looking at opportunities to expand joint ventures and feed those joint ventures with some of our existing assets.
But in general institutional partners want to go side-by-side with you on new acquisitions.
So that's generally where the institutional appetite is.
But as I mentioned in the very beginning we look at acquisitions and that includes our old portfolio selectively.
And we look at opportunities as we talk to these institutions to have the right mix of institutional partners and our own capital being put to work.
We have had the benefit of having capital to put to work as we sell our non-strategic assets and our not-retail properties.
That's given us some capital that we can redeploy and purchase some -- 100% wholly owned excellent quality assets for the long term.
Next we'll hear from Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike just focusing on the leasing spreads.
Even without the Staten Island lease they were still up double digits.
Were there any other specific leases that were driving that? Or was that pretty strong across the board? Yes.
Without Nate it was 9% positive.
And there wasn't any one big driver.
But to an earlier question that was raised we got the most traction in an assortment of mid-box junior-box-type anchors and turnover as opposed to the small stores which was -- I think it was a mild negative but almost imperceptible.
So really it was driven by a series of boxes including a couple and I don't have the information in front of me a couple of the borders re-leased boxes.
In an earlier call I had mentioned that we were pleased with the pipeline of users on the Borders -- former Borders location and a couple of boxes that helped push the numbers forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any other of these Target-like deals coming up? Yes.
We do but not next quarter.
Yes.
Don't put it in your model next quarter.
But the benefit of being around for 50 years is we have lots of leases that are very low rent that finally reach the maturity and finally reach the last of their extension options.
And this particular quarter we saw one of those.
We have many like that embedded in our portfolio.
Next we'll hear from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> A question for Glenn.
Looking at your debt schedule you guys are pretty light beyond 2020.
And just given your opening comments about limited capital markets activity just sort of curious what are your thoughts on for taking advantage of the current strong bid for corporate credit extending duration even if it means tendering for stuff early and taking a charge.
And also just want to get your thoughts on doing the preferred.
Great pricing but again if you can get unsecured tenured debt inside of that the trade-off in your view of preferred versus unsecured.
I think it's all a balance of how you look at the overall capital structure of the company.
We knew we want to replace our preferred it's 7.75 so it was a good arm.
The reality is at 6% 30-year debt for us at the time we did it was virtually on top of that.
So using a preferred instrument really that's not callable to permanent capital.
We thought it made a lot of sense in the overall capital picture.
You are right that we are light as we go further out because of where our debt maturity stack is.
And the reality is when we go to the next bond issuance a new 10-year deal was going to fit into an area where we have no debt maturities.
So as we've done for a long time we keep a very well-staggered debt maturity and trying to take advantage of the markets where we can.
And that's kind of what we did with this term loan giving ourselves 5 years of term where there's -- there's just a very big disconnect today between the bank market and the bond market.
So we'll continue to look and continue to be opportunistic.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So what about tendering early for bonds? We watch it real closely.
But the cost of doing it is pretty expensive.
I mean we looked even at trying -- look at the bonds that matured in November and January and the prepayment penalties is somewhat prohibitive.
So we'll watch it and take advantage of it where it makes sense.
Next we'll hear from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> David I think you mentioned -- I think it was you who mentioned after the InTown sale and you look at the non-core asset sales that are -- non-retail asset sales that are planned to happen this year you'll probably have about $300 million left or a little bit less than that.
What's the time do you think -- the best estimate to cycle through selling that? And then when you look at the non-core retail holdings where are you in that process? Like how far through it in terms of disposing which one will ultimately sell? Well in terms of the non-retail portfolio I think by the end of next year we'll be down to 1% to 2% of our total assets and we'll be very happy at that.
There are some longer term non-retail assets that we'll probably hold for in a while.
But we're very hopeful at that point with 98% plus of our assets being shopping centers that it will go away as an issue.
And we realize the InTown Suites is the big driver of all that and we're committed to making that happen.
In terms of the non-strategic retail Mike you might want to give an update here.
Yes.
Yes Michael what I said in the last quarter's call is that this is going to be continuous.
I don't think I'll ever stop in terms of recycling.
But from a realistic perspective in terms of the 100-plus assets that we've labeled non-strategic for external disclosure purposes I think that's going to be a 2- to 3-year cycle.
If we're happy with the acceleration of what's happening in the market now selling what we sold in the first quarter and just for some stats right now we have another 14 under contract 14 more that we've got accepted offers we're negotiating a contract and 21 more that are in the marketing phase.
So I think that's the steady diet of activity that you would expect to see us have -- that's going to be happening over the course of the next couple of years.
Now I'll also tell you that as we look -- we continue much more aggressively to relook at the portfolio and make some decisions about keep versus sell.
And that's really why in the disclosures do you all -- we talk about one set of occupancy number as one set of leasing spread numbers.
We do disclose separately the non-strategic but I don't want to get into a pattern of saying just pay attention to the "strategic assets." Because we're going to continually look to recycle capital and where we feel value and has been extracted to the management degree possible.
We will continue to use that as a capital source.
And I'd just add that in the process of execution the market is -- what we see is getting a little better for the B assets both in terms of the interest of those types of buyers as well as from available debt capital coming from the debt funds that are out there in the marketplace.
So all in all we think that has a good story attached to it as well.
At this time we'll take a follow-up from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just in the opening remarks Milton just in terms of -- you commented on some of the experience you've had with distressed retailers and also the national presence of your platform and ability to work on very large transactions.
What are sort of some of the opportunities that you're seeing today? And is there anything imminent that we should be thinking about? Well this is a continuing process for us and distress is not as available as it once was since there have not been new development and you really don't have the oversupply and the issue with retailers as abundant capital.
But we do look for opportunities.
We were involved in the Albertsons transaction that has turned out to be successful.
We are exploring the possibility of other transactions with the Albertsons people whether it may be real estate.
It'll be available at attractive prices.
So we're constantly watching that.
And by definition it's a very lumpy business.
So we are on the case and we do want to make sure that the market is aware that this is part of our business model and it's something we've done very well over the years.
And we continue to talk to retailers about the opportunity for us to do opportunistic transactions with their retail real estate.
At this time we'll take Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Can you just give a little detail in terms of how much you've committed to spend to this KEYS and franchise program and how long you are committed to it? The cost made is primarily in funding the set training seminars and other related activity that are mostly going to be conducted through the California small business development corps.
So without disclosing specific numbers the cost is relatively nominal.
And that's going to be our primary financial cost for doing so.
We will in fact help participate -- a few of our California leasing and asset management team associates are going to participate in those training sessions.
But that's really -- it's not going to be a heavy dollar amount.
We do give a year of free rent as a startup company.
So there is that contribution.
Right.
There's that opportunity cost for year 1 which is more based on a series of alliances with areas forums colleges business development corps to really -- to get some leverage if you will in bringing the entrepreneurs on board.
We hope to have the next Google come to us.
At this time we have no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Vicki and to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thank so much and have a good day.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good morning and welcome to Kimco's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call 2012.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dave Bujnicki.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Andrew.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning is Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We are very happy with our second quarter results as they constitute strong progress on our strategic goals and objectives.
Key items are summarized in our earnings release.
But I would like to provide a general high-level economical review together with updated information on certain disposition activities.
Overall the neighborhood and community shopping center sector continues its solid upward trend evidenced by increasing occupancies higher effective rents and solidly positive same-store NOI growth.
With virtually no new construction activity continued population increases and a growing GDP we are confident about the short- and intermediate-term prospects for our business and our portfolio.
While retail real estate and consumer spending are vulnerable longer term to any form of economic double-dip for now there is strong momentum among the majority of retailers as they execute expansion plans and growth strategies in the face of a shrinking supply of high-quality retail space.
A recent research report notes that more than 76 000 new stores are expected to open over the next 24 months 9% more than corresponding 2011 levels.
Restaurants such as Five Guys Subway and KFC are leading the pack but dollar stores and discount box stores are also accelerating their store openings.
As Glenn and Mike will provide the specifics of our solid second quarter earnings and portfolio performance I would like to anticipate several questions and provide an update on some of our key initiatives.
With respect to the disposition of our InTown Suites investment we have now executed a formal exclusivity agreement and related confidentiality document with one of the finalists in our marketing sales process.
While we can provide no assurances we are hopeful that we will enter into a formal purchase and sales agreement in the near future.
Under the terms of the signed exclusivity and confidentiality agreement this statement represents the extent of the information we are permitted to disclose at this time.
At the property level the InTown operations continue to perform strongly across-the-board with RevPAR occupancy and EBITDA all exceeding budget projections.
In addition the most recent Highland Group hotel industry report indicates that InTown's top line growth exceeds its economy segment competitors in almost all categories.
With regard to the shopping center acquisitions and sales markets we continue to see both increasing prices for high-quality shopping centers and a more active market with slightly higher prices for B properties and secondary markets.
Both trends are encouraging signs that the retail sector is fully back in favor among all types of investors and buyers.
E-commerce is now perceived as a reduced threat as most national retailers have adopted an integrative store and Internet sales strategy which has enhanced both aspects of their operations.
In addition there is a growing belief that the patently unfair state sales tax advantage held by e-commerce retailers is coming to a well-deserved end.
The House Judiciary hearing on the Main Street Fairness legislation went well a week ago and the Senate has now scheduled a hearing on its version of the bill for August.
On behalf of all of us in the shopping center industry we thank our shareholders and others that have lobbied hard on behalf of the Main Street Fairness legislation.
This is a critically important issue for our retailers and our industry.
On another front Glenn deserves to take an appropriate bow for taking the initiative to tap the perpetual preferred market 2 weeks ago at a record low rate.
This was our second preferred stock issued this year and helps lock in long-term low-cost capital.
Under almost every measure we have the liquidity a strong balance sheet and the staggered debt maturities to weather any prolonged economic downturn or softness.
As a brief note on our international operations.
The economies of both Canada and Mexico are strong and growing impressively with corresponding benefits to our shopping center portfolios in these countries.
The recent election results in Mexico bode well and we continue to see our U.S.
retailers expand aggressively in both countries.
Our project in San Juan Del Rio recently represented Home Depot's 97th store opening in Mexico.
As we move into August we are very happy with our results.
We are confident that we have strong positive momentum and that we will achieve success this year in growing our FFO improving the profile of our shopping center portfolio and maintaining our very strong balance sheet.
It is worth noting that in terms of our ongoing strengths stability and diversity Kimco remains the largest landlord of Costco Home Depot TJX Target Ross Stores Walgreen and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond all strong investment grade companies.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of our second quarter to be followed by Mike and Milton.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
The positive second quarter results are clear indicators of the execution of our strategic objectives.
Once again we have achieved positive same-site NOI growth further improvement in occupancy and positive leasing spreads better known as our vital signs.
Our capital recycling program is on target with the continued monetization of non-retail assets which is now down to 3.9% of gross assets and the disposition of nonstrategic retail properties while selectively acquiring shopping centers in markets which have long-term growth potential.
In addition we continue to focus on further strengthening of the balance sheet and reducing our overall cost of capital.
Let me provide you with some specifics.
As a reminder we are using the term FFO as adjusted to represent recurring FFO.
FFO as adjusted was $0.31 per diluted share for the second quarter as compared to $0.30 last year.
Headline FFO came in at $0.34 this quarter which includes approximately $12 million of transaction income primarily related to a distribution from our Albertsons investment an investment that keeps on giving us we have received almost 5x the original investment; and the recognition of a gain on the sale of air rights  and several promote participations.
Headline FFO last year was $0.31.
We continue to be active on the disposition and acquisition fronts.
We recognize almost $9 million of non-FFO net gains from the sale of 12 shopping center assets and 2 non-retail urban assets including the sale of Montgomery Plaza a Kimco development asset for the formation of a new joint venture with RioCan.
RioCan is the 80% partner and Kimco is the 20% partner and manager of the asset.
Total proceeds from these sales were $105 million which were quickly redeployed with the acquisition of 5 unencumbered properties and the remaining 70% interest in our Towson Maryland property which we previously owned 30% of for an aggregate cost of $180 million.
Our shopping center portfolio metrics continue to deliver solid results.
U.S.
occupancy on a pro rata basis increased 50 basis points from the first quarter level to 93.3% and up 20 basis points from the beginning of the year and 70 basis points from a year ago.
U.S.
same-site NOI growth was 2.1% for the second quarter and represents the ninth consecutive quarter with positive growth for this metric.
Combined same-site NOI growth including Canada and Latin America was 2.6% before the impact of currency which nicked the metric by 90 basis points due to the strengthening U.S.
dollar bringing the combined same-site NOI growth to 1.7%.
For the 6 months U.S.
same-site NOI growth was 2.2% and the combined same-site NOI growth was 2.9% before currency impact.
Overall leasing spreads were positive at 4.5% with new lease spreads at 5.4% and renewals and options at 4.2%.
Now even with what appears to be a slowing U.S.
economy the debt markets including the bank market unsecured and secured markets and equity markets continue to function well with new record low coupons being achieved by numerous companies as investors search the yield from high-quality companies.
We are pleased with our access to over $1.5 billion of new capital raised so far this year from the unsecured bank market the mortgage market both CMBS and on-book lenders and the perpetual preferred equity markets.
Our balance sheet metrics are strong with a consolidated net debt-to-EBITDA had adjusted up 5.6x.
And if you include the transaction income the net debt-to-EBITDA stands at 5.1x.
Also if you pro forma the EBITDA from the $92 million of acquisitions completed in late June the net debt-to-EBITDA would improve by another 0.2x.
Our fixed charge coverage remains solid at 2.6x including the impact of prefunding our upcoming debt maturities in November of this year for $200 million and $100 million in January of 2013 with a new $400 million term loan which closed in April priced at LIBOR plus 105 with a term of up to 5 years.
In addition we've prefunded an anticipated redemption of our $460 million 7 3/4% perpetual preferred issuance which becomes redeemable on October 2012 with a new $400 million 6% preferred issuance which was completed in March and most recently in July completed a new $225 million perpetual preferred issuance at 5 1/2% which is believed to be the lowest coupon ever for this type of security.
We are using a portion of the proceeds to redeem our $175 million 6.65% preferred issuance on August 15.
Please keep in mind that the dilution associated with the term loan and the preferred issuances will have a $0.03 impact for the full year 2012.
However once the redemptions are complete the annual savings will be approximately $11 million annually and provide further reduction of our fixed charge costs.
As a result of these activities our liquidity position is in excellent shape with over $380 million of cash on hand at the end of the second quarter and over $1.7 billion available on our revolving credit facility.
As noted in the press release last night we anticipate declaring our quarterly common and preferred dividends on or about August 15.
The timing is to ensure technical compliance on the Maryland law as we consider the redemption of our 7 3/4% Class G preferred stock which becomes redeemable on October 10 2012.
Lastly we are pleased to increase the low end of our FFO as adjusted guidance from $1.22 to $1.24 thus narrowing our FFO as adjusted guidance range to $1.24 to $1.26 even with the $0.03 dilution from the pre-fundings previously mentioned.
The FFO per share guidance does not include transaction income or expenses or noncash charges for the redemption of preferred stock.
Our guidance assumptions do include achieving combined same-site NOI growth ranging from 1.5% to 3.5% and increasing combined portfolio occupancy for the year of 50 to 100 basis points and a further reduction of our non-retail due to the continued monetization of those assets.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike for a review of the operating portfolio.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning everyone.
At the midyear point I'm pleased to report that the portfolio vital signs remain strong and continue to reflect the momentum in the shopping center fundamentals over the past couple of years.
Occupancy has picked up noticeably from the prior quarter the consequence of both positive net absorption and portfolio recycling efforts.
The occupancy levels are at their highest point since the fourth quarter of 2008 underscoring the improved supply and demand dynamics for space.
In the U.S.
portfolio occupancy levels for anchors using space over 10 000 square foot as the definition remained robust at 96.3%.
But more significantly we made big improvements in the small space leasing with a 1% uplift in the occupancy level to 83.3%.
Leasing spreads remain in the right direction.
And while we weren't as high as the 10% combined number from the first quarter we've been running positive for 6 quarters now.
Same-site NOI as I mentioned showed another positive result at 2.1% for the U.S.
and 1.7% overall with the aggregate numbers being influenced down by the FX.
But similar to last quarter the NOI growth numbers do reflect the drag from the temporary loss in rents from the former Borders and A&amp;P boxes with roughly a 60 basis point effect.
Of the 22 boxes vacated by Borders and A&amp;P during their prospective bankruptcy processes we now have re-leased 17 with a composite 3% spread.
And these replacement deals will start to positively influence the NOI metrics over the next few quarters.
Our non-U.S.
operations also have continued to achieve its growth objectives when analyzed on a local currency basis.
The Latin America portfolio is about 8% ahead of plan so far and it's 15% over last year's numbers in terms of NOI contribution.
The big push however remains the leasing plans for the next 6 months as we're about halfway to our 800 000-square foot leasing goal.
Canada remains a solid performer with occupancies remaining at 96.5% and same-site NOI growth at 3.8% for the 6-month period in local currency terms.
Moving beyond the operating results.
I thought I'd make a brief comment on Kimco's exposure to SUPERVALU considering the recent unfavorable news coming from the supermarket chain.
We currently have 27 leases in the portfolio across all of the SUPERVALU banners which represent just under 1% of base rates.
Most of these sites are valuable supermarket locations and 2/3 of the current leases are at rates we feel are at or below market.
Notwithstanding SUPERVALU'S announced pursuit of strategic alternatives we do not see a short-term issue for us.
So while we keep a watchful eye on the SUPERVALU situation I'd also point out a couple of other positive developments within our tenant universe.
The completion of the acquisition of Cost Plus by Bed Bath &amp; Beyond gives them a new avenue for growth and it's certainly a benefit to the 17 locations of Cost Plus in the Kimco portfolio.
Similarly the acquisition of Charming Shoppes by Ascena Group not only expands the Ascena customer base but will cast a different light on Charming Shoppes' strategy to close its fashion bug unit.
Although those store closures will take -- still take place next year as a landlord it's much better to work through any store closing and lease mitigation issues with a strong retailer with whom you have a broad relationship with.
And positioning is always much more manageable when you have a better inventory of real estate to work with which brings me to our recycling activities.
While our disposition levels are not necessarily headline-grabbing I'd like to reinforce a few statistics on the recycling efforts in the past 18 months.
We have sold more assets than we have bought in terms of numbers; 63 versus 42 but have acquired larger properties and as a result had a net addition to GLA of about 125 000 square feet.
The assets bought were 93.8% occupied.
The assets sold were 80.9% occupied.
Average rent of property sold $9.35; of acquired $13.60.
And while populations were roughly on par the average household incomes of the acquired properties were almost 30% higher.
Bottom line is that there has been a real impact on the portfolio base from these activities.
We estimate that the properties acquired since late 2010 now represent a bit under 6% of the U.S.
shopping center gross asset value.
The other piece of the recycling effort is putting money back into the strategic portfolio base.
The basic profile of our shopping center portfolio is large with wide spread of risk across a variety of markets.
So too is our investment activity.
While there aren't any 9-figure high-execution risk projects there are a wide series projects that provide solid returns and limited risks to enhance cash flow and asset valuation.
In addition to the active projects disclosed in the supplement we have an ongoing pipeline of opportunities either in the entitlement phase or under valuation.
It represents about 15 different properties that can launch within the next 2 to 3 years with rough spend of about $250 million.
They include our centers in Live Oak and Altamonte Springs in Florida the Owings Mills project in Maryland a potential new center in Delaware and our center in Cupertino California directly across from the main access point of Apple's planned new corporate headquarters.
And with that I'll turn it over to Milton for some final comments.
Well thanks Mike.
We have reason to be proud of our ability to withstand headwinds and improve our core metrics in a soft economy.
Notwithstanding these uncertain times we've strengthened our portfolio we have divested non-core assets acquired high-quality assets in tough MSAs and focused on generating higher recurring FFO and creating value.
One question on everyone's mind is where is the market going from here? Four years ago we were at the onset of a strong rally in corporate bonds.
Investment grade corporate bonds yielded as high as 9.5% in October of 2008.
Since then yields have plummeted.
Corporate BAA yields are below 4.8%.
Real estate is above all an income-oriented investment and cap rates are tied at the hip to interest rates.
This is just one of the factors hinting at further cap rate compression.
Lack of new development in our sector is another.
The thirst for yield is in August.
Just from a purely income-based perspective real estate and REITs should be beneficiaries in the current environment.
Looking at Kimco in particular we have a conservative dividend payout ratio of 61% of recurring flows one of the lowest in our sector.
So we believe our dividend is safe and strong.
I would like to add an interesting fact that some might not realize.
At the end of the year the much talked about fiscal cliff is looming the Bush tax cuts will expire and unless some agreement is reached the dividend tax rate will increase.
Currently ordinary dividends from a REIT are not afforded the special low tax rate of 15% enjoyed by many investors in non-REIT corporations.
Ordinary dividends received from a REIT would therefore not be affected by the dividend tax increase.
So it seems that on a relative basis the corporations REITs could become even more attractive from an after-tax income perspective.
We will continue to monetize our non-retail assets.
We will continue to take advantage of unique situations such as distressed retailers with good real estate and similar opportunities.
Now every 4 years we're just amazed at the performance of the world's best athletes competing during the Olympic Games.
Looking at our business our team of real estate athletes are trained and are prepared to achieve superior performance as well.
We are back to our basic retail real estate core expertise and focusing on growing our property cash flow and creating value.
Our team is doing great work in accomplishing these objectives.
And now we'd be delighted to answer any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Given the attractive terms with what you've been able to issue your most recent preferred would you expect to do another deal this year? And has your philosophy changed at all in terms of how you would structure your balance sheet going forward or do you plan to sort of keep the same balance of debt and preferred? I don't see us doing another deal this year Christy.
We have taken care of what we think we can do so far.
We've prefunded our debt maturities that are coming up.
It's a very well-spread maturity profile.
But the program of continuing to try and modestly produce leverage and bring our net debt-to-recurring EBITDA into that mid-5x range no higher than 6 is where we want to target.
So we're just going to continue on the path we've been on.
The next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking Pages 30 and 31 of the supplemental.
I'm just wondering if you could comment on the negative leasing trends in Latin America as well as the shorter lease term relative to Canada and the U.S.? Well I'll take a quick stab at Latin America.
There are still some residual effects from call it the Great Recession in terms of local rents rolling down a little bit from some of the very high levels we had.
But the sample is small.
The actual number of leases you have to look at is small.
And the underlying trends are strong.
The retailers have resumed their expansion.
We're seeing lots of demand.
And what's encouraging is the small shops just like the U.S.
are coming back in Mexico.
So we expect over time that that will reverse.
In Canada it's all good.
Some of the -- again we have a smaller sample up there than we do in the U.S.
so I wouldn't take away any distinct trends in terms of the shorter leases up there.
The demand is strong.
Craig I would just add that to echo Dave's point about Mexico it is a small sample size.
Mexico still has very strong positive same-store NOI because leasing in absolute terms coupled with the annual cost-of-living adjustment on existing tenants more than outweighs some small negative leasing spread for a small sample.
I'd also say that overall these terms are a little bit shorter.
I think that reflects the changing composition of the new leases signed whereas historically there's been more anchors.
Now we're getting more small space leased up and those terms are generally smaller -- shorter.
So you're going to see the average terms of lease shorten up a bit as we fill up the small spaces.
The next question comes from Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the disposition market getting a little bit easier as the demand for some of the secondary market assets improves.
I mean a couple of things would you consider accelerating your volumes of sales into strength as it grows? And then second what kind of cap rates are you seeing for those assets relative to the core that you're buying? I think you have seen the company accelerate its disposition activities.
We are being very deliberate and we're committed to selling these lower-tiered assets and we are heartened by the fact that the market is improving for these lower-tier assets.
I think it's because so many people have tried to buy the higher quality and there's just so many bidders that they're forced to go down a notch in terms of the markets to get their -- to get retail today.
So we are seeing cap rates improve a little bit even in the secondary markets which is good.
So we're committed to it.
And we have accelerated it over time.
And we are trying to take advantage of the decline in the market to do it.
Conversely we are trying to be very careful about what we buy and make sure it's the better stuff and we're trying to do as many off-market situations as we can.
So you'll continue to see us do this recycling activity.
The next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I think this is the first quarter you guys have broken out same store with and without the impact of FX.
Can you just talk a little bit about your view of FX? How you -- given the odd situation that the dollar finally seems to be strengthening how you think about your overseas operations? And then also what the per-share impact is from the appreciation of the dollar? Well I'll just take a very high level.
As you probably know in Canada we're pretty effectively hedged between both the Canadian mortgage we have that are in Canadian dollar terms and the equity we've invested has been in the form of Canadian dollar-denominated bonds.
So the investment itself in Canada is pretty well hedged although the income is not so.
We're subject to fluctuations there.
Mexico is a little different because we have very few mortgages although we do have some Mexico peso mortgages.
And we have a relatively modest peso line of credit that we have used to fund some of the equity.
But in Mexico we are relying in large measure on the cost-of-living increases that are built in every single lease in Mexico.
So since 40% of the income does come from strong tenants like Wal-Mart and Home Depot we can pretty much count on that.
So to the extent the peso weakens it's generally because inflation has picked up and we do get a corresponding offset in terms of the revenues.
So I think we're pretty well hedged long term.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And what about the per share impact of the appreciation of the dollar? It's fairly modest Alex.
Because to Dave's point in Canada we are naturally hedged so you have more interest expense as depending on which way the dollar goes there's the income goes so they kind of offset each other.
Mexico again has a little bit more of an impact.
But on an overall basis it's relatively modest.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave just want to go back to your comments about the value improvement in B properties or secondary markets.
Is the compression in the 10-year treasury that we've seen since the end of last quarter do think contributing to lenders looking to step out the yields factor and then maybe get a little more aggressive on advanced rates for those markets and that's I guess I'd say the ultimate catalyst there for that segment? Or do you actually think B property fundamentals are beginning look better than A property fundamentals for people? I would say both I would say both.
Clearly there's a thirst for yield.
People are just tired of sitting on cash.
Real estate especially good decent real estate remains an inflation hedge on one hand and a cash-yielding asset that exceeds all kinds of alternatives from treasuries to corporate bonds.
So real estate is increasingly in favor.
Retail is one of the established food groups if you will for all kinds of investors.
And there is a frustration in terms of a limited supply of truly high-quality retail in primary markets.
So just like every other cycle it has now moved downwards towards the B properties.
It's interesting to look at a country like Canada where the cap rates are much more compressed than here in the U.S.
The difference between the As and Bs and the Cs is much more compressed than here and I think you'll eventually see the U.S.
move towards that same sort of situation where cap rates will begin to move more together.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you're seeing retailer demand extend out into the B markets at this point? Yes by necessity as there's a shrinking supply of stores that are having to take a harder look at stuff that they passed up.
There are so many good national retailers that are committed to increasing their store count.
And there's this critical momentum to these expansion plans that they're forced to look at all kinds of alternatives.
And they want immediate occupancy.
They don't want to go back in the old days of wait 3 or 4 or 5 years for a new development project to get entitled and get built and so forth.
So they are taking a harder look at boxes they didn't look at before.
The next question comes from Andrew Rosivach of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm just on your guidance detail page and it looks like the biggest piece of it that went up was the non-retail component.
And I'm just curious is that related to InTown timing because the transaction is getting done later than you might have anticipated? Correct.
It is Andrew.
When we came out with our original guidance we had incorporated selling it by the end of the third quarter.
So we've built in the last quarter.
It's the bulk of it.
Research Division</strong> So and just to follow up on that should we assume most of the full $0.04 of dilution is incrementally going to happen in '13 or is some of it going to happen this year? In terms of losing InTown yes you're right.
Most of it will occur.
We think this asset will remain effectively on our books this year because even if we started the closing process tomorrow there are mortgages to be just assumed and by definition that always takes a while.
Next question comes from Nate Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike as you look at the recent progress in the small shop occupancy side is there any meaningful trends that you can point to that the small shop gains you're experiencing are stronger at centers where you recently refilled vacant boxes or would you say that the improvement is more broad-based? I would say it's more broad-based.
Now clearly Nate to the extent we filled an anchor that always has a positive effect.
But I think more than anything we've seen a lot of traction in our generally stronger geographic markets.
We've also seen an increased demand as we've talked about in earlier calls from the national retailers franchise concepts et cetera that are filling the space.
The markets for a true mom-and-pop demand is so somewhat tepid and that is also very geographic-focused.
So I would sum it in saying that it's been a broad-based improvement but clearly a bias towards the stronger geographic markets.
Now the 1% occupancy increase in the small stores about 60 basis points of that was due to absorption and 40 basis points was due to our recycling efforts getting rid of properties that had structural and chronic vacancies that we felt would not -- never lease up or not lease up for the foreseeable future.
The next question comes from Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of some of the stress that we're seeing in this value supermarkets or grocers do you think you could see opportunities emerge similar to your experience with Albertsons? And if an opportunity did emerge would partaking in something be consistent with your current strategy? The answer is absolutely yes on both.
There will be opportunities.
The conventional supermarket has strained from the warehouse clubs that are 70% food from Wal-Mart superstores from the specialty retailers such as Whole Foods.
From all these there is just avalanche of new users and wherever there is a retail that's distress with strong real estate that's been our strong suit for a long time.
So the answers is an unequivocal yes.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that's something more near-term or is it something that'll transpire in sort of 2 or 3 years' time? I think there's a good possibility it would be near term.
The next question comes from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the B class and secondary market commentaries.
Are there particular secondary markets that are noticeably improving and then are there ones that you can point to specifically? Well let me go back to one of the questions that was asked about cap rates on these B markets.
I think it's a very broad range and it depends on how secondary or tertiary the markets are.
But we're seeing cap rates range from 8% to 10% on these kinds of markets.
And what's interesting to me there are markets let's just take a Jacksonville Florida which are not perceived to be gateway cities or 24-hour cities or "primary markets" that a lot of the institutions would look at.
But we would consider that a very solid B market and there is a bit of an arbitrage today between the cap rates on equal quality shopping center in Jacksonville versus perhaps Long Island New York metro markets.
So that would be one example.
Now if you go all the way to the other end of the spectrum to Huntsville Alabama or something like that that would be considered a pretty tertiary market and have not much appeal to the institutions.
There may be local buyers that believe they can make something happen to that asset and create great cash flow.
So as we sell our B properties depending on the market we're selling a lot to local investors that aren't concerned about how secondary or tertiary that market is.
They like the cash flow and their local people.
They believe they can make something happen with these assets.
The next question comes from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the small shop occupancy increase.
When you look out over the next 12 to 18 months what do you think the goal is or what can you achieve in terms of ramping that up more? It sounds like it was 60 basis points this quarter.
I mean where can that go to? Mike I've been doing this too long to predict things 12 to 18 months out.
We would like to get the occupancy up to an 85-plus percent level within the next 12 months.
But a lot of things need to happen so I can't -- I really don't want to make that a prediction.
I think the big part of it is where the economy goes in the short term.
There has been a slowdown.
That doesn't certainly mean it's going to go in reverse but the timing and the relative demand of small shop leasing certainly the backbone is the strength of the economy.
So we'll see where that takes us.
I mean the trend line is good.
We feel good about the short-term trend line.
We like the rest of the world worry about everything from Europe to the fiscal cliff and so forth so we're very reluctant to give you a prediction.
But on the ground we are feeling good.
Our leasing people are feeling good and our regional presidents are feeling good about what's happening short term.
The next question comes from Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Mexico.
When I look at the development schedule for Mexico or what's left pending stabilization do you think you can reach the same levels of occupancy in these projects as you have in the rest of your portfolio or is there anything in this project where you think that stabilization is going to be a lower number? No I do think over time you are going to see the basket of properties we have a Mexico achieve comparable levels to the U.S.
These are generally very high quality properties.
Unfortunately they were developed at the top of the cycle if you will and they've been a little bit slow to lease up and some of the structural items that happened in Mexico have slowed it down from an international retailer perspective.
But it's all green signs for the moment as I mentioned in my comments.
People like Home Depot have resumed strongly their expansion plans and we're seeing improvement on the small shops now.
The Mexican economy is over 4% GDP growth.
Unemployment is very low.
Manufacturing is very strong.
It's got great oil revenues.
Believe it or not tourism is still doing well there.
And the election is now behind them.
Every 6 years people hold their breath in Mexico and now that's behind them so retailers are much more confident about making plans.
And our leasing people in Mexico also feel very good today about some of the leases they have pending and some of the retailers that they're working with to expand.
And as I mentioned before when you're dealing with a market of 100 million-plus people and only 1 000 shopping centers versus the U.S.
with 300 million-plus people and 100 000 shopping centers it's just a different dynamic.
But there's every reason to believe that over time the occupancy will achieve the U.S.
level.
And then we will see better than normal growth because of the CPI increase that's built into even the anchor leases.
The next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back again to the Canadian same-store NOI.
I realize that the foreign exchange had an impact but seemed weak for the quarter even when that's taken into account and I'm curious if the Canadian economy softening is part of that.
And then also the transactional income seem to be in Canada and I'm curious what that was.
Well let me take the latter first because it's something we're particularly proud of.
It's the sales on air rights that was done in our RioCan joint venture actually 4 years ago.
We just needed the cash 4 years ago and some of conditions precedent to booking that income we were able to get done this quarter.
So I think it was $5 million or $6 million in term of an air right sale in Canada orchestrated by our friends at RioCan.
So that was the primary driver of the transaction income in Canada although we did I think we got some income on some other things and then we got Albertsons in the U.S.
so -- but in terms of Canada I think there was a little bit of other income out there as well.
Honestly it's a smaller sample in Canada as we mentioned but we don't see any real slowdown there particularly among the U.S.
retailer demand for space in Canada.
People like Marshalls and you just read about Lowe's making a major move to expand in Canada.
These things are driving some good things in Canada.
And as you know it has about 1/2 the retail space per capita that the U.S.
had.
The economy of Canada is strong and so forth.
So underlying some perhaps noise in some specific leases that might have rolled down or something like that the underlying fundamentals of Canada are strong.
I don't think we've ever been below 97% aggregate occupancy in Canada.
So it's -- we still feel very good about it.
We have converted a couple of preferred equity investments into long-term joint ventures and some of those projects I think had a little bit lower occupancy and perhaps some of the leases are a little bit less than some of the RioCan leases.
But in general we -- honestly we don't see any clouds up there at all.
The next question comes from Samit Parikh of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Back to Mexico real quick.
Fibra UNO recently did a pretty large transaction I think it was valued at about [indiscernible].
Based on sort of what they're doing out there does this entice you at all for an exit strategy in Mexico anytime in the near term? It certainly entices us to take a hard look at valuations in Mexico and look at possible ways to create value for our shareholders over time.
The Fibra UNO transaction as you know is little bit complicated in terms of it's multi-property type.
There was some development assets in that.
So it's a little bit tougher to get a good handle on the exact net cap rate if you will.
But we're looking at it.
I think that's a fair thing to say.
The next question comes from Tom [indiscernible] of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Glenn you made some comments about where your balance sheet stands and you guys have obviously made some good progress on getting to your targeted balance sheet.
Any comments about -- you guys have targeted debt-to-EBITDA.
Any comments on debt plus preferred to EBITDA and how you kind of manage that part of the balance sheet? Well again we've had preferred perpetual preferred as a component of our balance sheet for a long time.
I think the way you we see it now is it's going to stand at around $800 million.
We don't really expect to increase it much more.
We've kind of used it as a somewhere at around 10% of our balance sheet of our capital structure being in the preferred component.
So we'll try and keep it around that level.
The metric though even the net debt plus preferred to EBITDA if you look at that metric it has come down quite a bit as well over these last couple of years.
So we do watch it in total.
But we look at that metric.
We look at fixed charge coverage which continues to improve as well.
And I think you're going to see much further improvement next year as we get the benefit of the refinancing of these 2 preferreds I mean we're going to save at $11...
EBITDA growth from the acquisitions too right so yes I definitely understand that.
And any comments on obviously the 5.5% execution was very good perpetual capital.
But you guys have now done 2 sets of preferreds and term loan rather than unsecured bonds.
Any commentary on the relative attractiveness of those types of capital versus unsecured bonds? Well at the time we did our term loan our term loan was priced at the time probably 120 basis points tighter than what we could have done in the unsecured bond market which is why we went that route.
The preferred that we've done are really refinancings of much more expensive preferreds right? We have one that's 7 3/4% one that was at 6.55%.
So we brought them down to 6% and 5 1/2%.
So those are just straight refinancings that way we look at them.
The unsecured bond market more recently has tightened.
You've seen deals that are getting done 40 50 and 60 basis points through their secondaries.
So it's a market we constantly watch and we always try to be opportunistic.
So we'll continue to watch and if it makes sense we would tap it.
Next question comes from David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Milton you mentioned the [indiscernible] fiscal cliff.
Capital gains would go from 15 to 24 or more plus or minus.
I wonder if that's animating any of your potential sellers of property? And more generally are you aware that fiscal cliff considerations are causing anybody to sort of hold back from signing long leases or commit to investments on -- through your joint venture programs? No.
Insofar -- first let me take the latter part first.
There are sellers who are very worried where tax rates will be next year.
And they feel this is the last shot that they have at the lower capital gains right? So how much we'll be able to get in year-end closings I don't know.
But we're certainly trying to be fast on our footwork to accomplish opportunistic purchases is one of the reasons Glenn has kept the balance sheet so strong.
Insofar as the retailers are concerned I don't think -- they must expand.
Just imagine retailers depend on people working in the stores and those people are the ones who deal with their customers and if the retailer is stagnant it's going to lose its best people.
You wouldn't want a sister or a relative to be working in the store where there'll be no opportunity to become an assistant manager as they grow stores managers.
So if retailers do not expand they -- it's a self-fulfilling prophecy about losing good people.
So I don't see the capital gains or the tax issues as an inhibition on moving forward with new stores.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any comments on investors' inability to underwrite after-tax returns? I happen to believe over time tax returns are a factor but people still want to have yield.
I remember when there was an excess profit tax and taxes were as much as 90% people still want to invest to get the other 10%.
They will look at relative opportunities.
And with yields as anemic as they are real estate and cap rates have a very large spread historically high spread between 10-year treasuries and cap rates.
So I think the demand will increase.
The next question comes from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> One of the most common themes we hear in support of continuing strength and fundamental trends is lack of new supply growth.
But as you mentioned earlier Kimco's starting to pick up redevelopment and development activity as are most of your peers on the margin.
I'm wondering at one point the increase in construction sort of extends beyond the REITs who again seems to be doing it at a relatively judicious pace but at what point could it sort of accelerate from there given that there's free yields that's out there and the fundamental strengthening that we've seen? And the second part of that question is what are you and your peers sort of doing differently this time around if anything to try to avoid some of the oversupply issues in certain types of space that we faced a few years ago whether it's at the project level or investing where certain criteria are met? First of all there's just a huge difference between expanding an existing shopping center or building out some land that you already have in your inventory versus call it the prerecession days when people would buy 100 acres of land and spend the next 5 to 10 years getting it zoned and then titled and fighting off the environmentalists and then working with major anchor tenants to do pre-leasing and then arranging for construction financing and equity financing and so forth.
The retailers do not have the patience for that anymore.
A lot of them got caught up in bankruptcies and half completed development deals.
Secondly the economics are tough.
Rents haven't recovered enough to really justify a significant amount of new construction.
On an incremental basis where you already own the land where you already own the center it's much easier to make the numbers work.
So you will see the redevelopment activity pick up a little bit but it's nowhere close to the addition to supply that we saw in the old days if you will.
And it's going to keep demand higher than addition to supply I think for quite a while.
Now it's hard to say at all it won't come back at some point and I'm sure it will because everything's is cyclical.
But the old days of buying these big sites and adding millions of square feet to new supply which by the way was somewhat dependent upon growing housing and we're probably a long way away from the growth in housing or "rooftops" again to justify all that.
So I think you're going to see limited supply for quite a while.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the portfolio leasing detail that's on I think it's Page 25 and 26 of the supplemental.
The square footages decline across your 8 investment management portfolios over the last several quarters and as you sold off assets the in-place average space rent has also declined as well.
I think in the most recent quarter it's something like 6 or 8 of the portfolios were flat or down Q2 versus Q1.
I know there may be a lot going on beneath the surface but is that decline in average rent just is a function of rents rolling down the market over the last several quarters or could it stem from selling off the higher rent higher-quality assets in those portfolios? Well we'll give you one great example.
We bought out our partner on Towson Place.
This was a very high quality asset with very very high rents and so forth so we've taken that out of the investment management business if you will and it's on balance sheet.
We haven't sold it off at all.
So I think there are situations where we have bought out our partners on the very high-quality stuff.
But I don't think anything dramatically different is going on in the investment management portfolio than our general portfolio.
And in general many of these joint ventures have very high quality properties and so perhaps you do have some top of the market rents that rolled down a bit.
But we're very happy generally with the quality of what we have in the investment management business.
And Jeff I think the tagline is that the investment management program in terms of -- have been relatively stable in terms of their composition with some movement out like the Towson example and the rents have moved a little the average rents but not something which would detect a fundamental shift in the underlying quality or composition of the portfolio.
In one particular portfolio where there was a little bit more meaningful shift down in the average rent it did have to do to Dave's point with particularly roll down as that portfolio has a concentration of properties in the Las Vegas and Reno markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I recognize this is a very small part of the company but you have a pretty small total hold in countries like Peru and Brazil and even arguably Chile.
And those markets aren't necessarily as deep as the U.S.
either but how do you guys think about the benefit or operating in those -- operating those properties versus the cost of operating in those countries and your ability to grow your platform over time because it's been quite some time that you've really had pretty steady base in those markets.
Well you're right.
We have less than 20 total properties in 3 countries at all.
What we have has been successful.
In Chile in particular where we have I think 15 properties they've been very successful for us; Peru we have 2; and Brazil we have 2.
So it's a foothold.
It's been a place cardholder coming out of the recession if you will as we concentrated on Mexico.
I think the challenge for us from our shareholders from our board from Milton is prove the case in Mexico.
Get what you have in Mexico leased up have it produce wonderful FFO earnings and if that indeed happens then perhaps we can expand what we have already -- the seeds we have planted in South America.
But it's fair to say our focus and our concentration today is on Mexico and making that a very profitable part of the total portfolio that we have.
The next question comes from Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Bilerman speaking.
I just want to come back just in terms of sort of the portfolio acquisitions and dispositions and tie it a little bit to Milton's comment about investors' thirst for yield being enormous.
And it would appear as though if you look at the transaction activity especially more recently that more is being done with Kimco's own capital on balance sheet rather than with joint venture partners.
And I'm just curious if investors have this enormous thirst for yield why aren't you using that capital more in terms of the existing investors that you have or seeking new investors for funds versus potentially levering up a little bit and taking more assets on balance sheet relative to the assets that you're selling.
Well first of all we have had the balance sheet capacity to buy for our own account if you will.
So as we have found good high-quality acquisition we have put them on our books.
And as we have sold assets both nonstrategic retail asset and our non-core asset we've had capital coming into the shop if you will.
So rather than needing institutional capital we've been able to use our own capital.
That is not to say over time we will go back to some of our very valued partners and help us acquire a very competitively priced asset because to Milton's point as cap rates continue to decline we may need to tap the pension funds and the life company to be competitive because some of those cap rates are getting very very low.
But for now you are right.
We are buying more on our own balance sheet than needing institutional capital.
Research Division</strong> And maybe Mike can you just clarify.
You talked about all the acquisitions relative to dispositions in your opening comments and you gave us some of the stats about base rents and occupancy and trade areas.
Can you just comment on what the cap rate that you bought the $900 million and the cap rate that you sold $360 million just so we get a sense of spread and...
Yes I think Michael the rough number averages out to about 6.9% cap rate on the acquisition and 9% on the disposition.
I think those are good numbers to use for your financial analysis.
And the one comment I'd make on the dispositions.
We've talked a lot in this conference call about B properties I would submit that many of the assets we sold in this first rush would qualify as C properties.
So it's very different type of asset and even in good -- Milton's saying they're even D properties.
So put that in perspective as I give you those cap rates.
And before you compute the math on the dilution Michael remember some of the non-retail assets that we have sold some of our urban properties as an example were totally nonearning so we sold them at effectively 0 cap rate and that capital comes back into the equation if you will.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I don't think it's even in the 365.
I think you've sold more than that as you liquidated like the Valad stake and everything else that you've netted more proceeds from your disposition program.
That is correct.
And again the statistics I've given you reflect the sum total of the activity which goes back to September of 2010 as we've got the more recent transactions obviously the cap rates have trended lower versus those that we acquired late in 2010.
Again just a reflection of the marketplace but it does average out to the numbers I provided to you.
The next question comes from David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this but your cash leasing spreads in the quarter were up 4.5% compares to a 10% spread in first quarter.
Is that just a mix question? Yes.
It just reflects back in the first quarter we had an unduly large 40% new leasing spread driven by the Target taking over an old Kmart lease in Staten Island New York so that obviously averages way up in that first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 4.5% is more your run rate number? As we've generally talked about a mid-single digit leasing spread in this environment to be a good run rate absent any more significant macro issues.
There'll be pluses and minuses every quarter as there always are but trend lines I think second quarter reflects where we are as a portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any comment on CapEx leasing CapEx is that sort of pretty much running at similar? It remains relatively consistent actually this year on -- slightly lower than the first half of last year but again it was nothing that implies any structural shift in dealmaking.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Andrew and to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a final remember our supplemental is posted through our website at kimcorealty.com.
Thanks so much.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corp.
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity for you to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference call over to your moderator Mr.
David Bujnicki Vice President.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's third quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning is Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for dialing in today.
Hurricane Sandy has given us an exciting few days and we are glad it has moved on from our area.
We are pleased to report strong third quarter results continued progress on our key objectives and a significant increase in our annual dividend.
Glenn and Mike will provide details and color.
But in the main we continue to see steady and sustained improvement across our portfolio in terms of our key metrics and retailer demand for space.
Despite the soft economy and weak employment and housing consumer spending is holding up and national retailers in particular are again pursuing aggressive expansion plans.
Discount and value-oriented anchors of all types have announced increased store counts for 2013 2014.
And this bodes well for our portfolio especially in the context of very limited new development or supply of retail space.
Although market rents remain substantially below peak levels and while certainly not a landlord's market effective rents are increasing in most areas.
We are even beginning to see occupancy improvement in our local stores basis which has been our primary issue over the past several years.
During the quarter we made solid progress reducing our non-retail investments selling our lower-quality non-strategic properties leasing up our Latin American development properties and strengthening our balance sheets.
We are also thrilled to be able to discuss the fully executed purchase and sales agreement with an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group for the purchase of our InTown Suites investment.
We've been working through the sales process for an extended period of time due to the complexity of selling both the corporate entity and the real estate assets.
The closing timeframe is also expected to be prolonged due to the loan assumptions required and other closing details.
However all parties involved are proceeding as expeditiously as possible and the underlying investment continues to perform very well.
I would also like to take a moment to discuss our concentrated efforts to transform over time our large shopping center portfolio into one that is well recognized and described as "best-in-class." In addition to the disposition of nonstrategic and lower-quality retail assets we have purchased many terrific new shopping centers and we continue to expand devote resources and invest capital in many of our very best retail properties.
We recognize that the key to our success will be a dedicated focus on Kimco's primary core markets which in general are highlighted by strong demographics barriers to entry limited retail per capita larger-sized properties and higher population densities.
The New York City metro area where we have more than 70 shopping centers and the Baltimore-Washington Corridor where we have more than 40 shopping centers are 2 good examples of Kimco primary markets where we already have scale long-standing tenant relationships and premier retail properties.
We will remain fully national in scope but we will continue to refine and focus on certain key markets.
With respect to our international markets Canada remains a strong improving contributor to our company with a long-term very favorable outlook.
Mexico our other large international market also has a strong economy with 10 straight quarters of year-over-year economic expansion and a strong resurgence of international capital in the real estate sector and increasing property values.
For us lease-up of our development portfolio remains paramount and the 130 basis points occupancy increase in aggregate in our Mexico properties during the quarter is gratifying and shows promise for the rest of the year.
Overall our Latin American stabilized portfolio now exceeds 90% occupancy.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of the quarter to be followed by Mike and Milton.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
It's been just over 2 years since we outlined our back-to-basics strategy focused on the operation and ownership of retail shopping centers the growth of recurring retail operating cash flows from the continued lease-up of the portfolio and redevelopment opportunities and our commitment to monetize our non-retail investments and dispose of non-strategic retail assets all while strengthening the balance sheet with reduced leverage and significant liquidity.
Our strong third quarter results are further evidence of us getting it done.
We continue to generate positive same-site NOI growth increases in occupancy and positive leasing spreads.
We have made further progress on the monetization of the non-retail assets and have ramped up the capital recycling program and further improved our leverage metrics.
Let me provide you some specifics on our progress.
As we reported last night FFO as adjusted our term for recurring FFO came in at $0.31 per share an increase of 3.3% over the same quarter last year.
Our recurring FFO included positive NOI growth of $16.6 million of which 40% was attributable to organic growth from lease-up positive leasing spreads and redevelopments coming online within the portfolio and the balance from acquisition activity.
Occupancy is up 70 basis points from the year ago to 93.7% on a gross basis and 60 basis points to 93.4% on a pro rata basis.
U.S.
leasing spreads are up 13% 40.2% from new leases and 4.3% from options and renewals.
In addition combined same-site NOI was positive for the 10th straight quarter at 2.6% excluding the impact of currency.
Currency had a negative impact of 100 basis points bringing same-site NOI to 1.6% overall with U.S.
same-site NOI growth coming in at 2.5%.
Mike will give you more detail on the portfolio performance in just a moment.
Headline FFO came in at $0.29 per share as compared to $0.33 last year.
The current year headline number includes the impact of $0.02 per share related to the noncash preferred redemption charge of $6.2 million and acquisition-related costs while last year had net transaction income of $11 million or $0.03 a share.
Based on our 9-month results of FFO as adjusted per share of $0.93 we are maintaining our full year 2012 guidance of $1.24 to $1.26.
Again this guidance range does not include transaction income and expenses or noncash charges for the redemption of preferred stock.
Over 96% of the contributions are provided from the retail operating portfolio.
As I mentioned our capital recycling program has gained momentum.
We had a very active quarter selling 9 non-strategic retail properties for approximately $95 million and generating net non-FFO gains of $7.4 million and then another 14 properties subsequent to quarter end for another $70 million.
We redeployed the proceeds from these sales by acquiring 6 fully owned assets in our core markets for a gross purchase price of $154 million.
We continue to chip away and monetize the non-retail assets reducing the balance by another $30 million and announcing the execution of a contract to sell InTown Suites the largest remaining non-retail investment.
We're actively working on the disposition of other non-retail assets.
Once completed the non-retail investments will be under $300 million or less than 2.5% of gross assets.
Including the activity mentioned above we have sold 86 non-strategic retail assets with gross proceeds of $530 million and non-retail assets of approximately $400 million since our 2010 investor day.
During the same period we acquired 47 properties for a gross purchase price of $985 million.
The assets acquired have a combined occupancy of 94.2% an average base rent of almost $14 a square foot and average household income of over $95 000.
Contrast this with the assets sold which have a combined occupancy of 83.4% an average base rent of $8.35 and average household income of $61 000.
We've made demonstrative progress in upgrading the overall quality of the portfolio and have had only minimal dilution from it when combined with the non-retail assets sold.
The [Audio Gap] identified non-strategic retail assets remaining represent only 6.5% of the total portfolio today and we continue to aggressively run through our recycling program.
We continue to be proactive on the balance sheet as well.
During July we completed a new $225 million perpetual preferred issuance at a coupon of 5.5% among the lowest coupons ever issued for this type of capital.
We used the proceeds to redeem our $175 million 6.65% perpetual preferred stock in the middle of August.
In addition subsequent to quarter end we redeemed our $460 million 7.75% perpetual preferred stock.
We used the proceeds from our $400 million 6% preferred issuance completed in March and the balance of the July issuance to fund the October redemption.
As a result of these capital transactions we will save approximately $11 million on an annual basis and further improve our fixed charge coverage.
We expect to end 2012 with a net debt to recurring EBITDA of just under 6x in line with our expectation.
I also want to point out that we have been successful refinancing the maturing mortgages in the joint venture programs.
We have closed on 24 individual mortgages totaling $628 million at a weighted average rate of just under 4% and have term sheets signed for 6 more for another $160 million.
We continue to lower the leverage in the joint venture programs as well.
In total we have refinanced over $1.9 billion during 2012 at significantly lower rates.
As we look forward to 2013 our debt maturities are very manageable and we have already begun working on them.
Now in keeping with our tradition we are introducing initial FFO as adjusted guidance for 2013 of $1.28 to $1.33 per share bearing in mind we have not yet completed our bottoms-up property-by-property forecast process.
Again this guidance range is solely based on recurring flows and does not include any transaction income or expenses.
Using the midpoint of the 2013 guidance range yields an increase in recurring FFO per share of about 4.5%.
The range is dependent on the timing of our capital recycling activities including the sale of InTown Suites -- which we assume mid-second quarter to complete -- the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency rates and the timing of lease-up leasing spreads and redevelopments coming online.
Over 98% of the contribution is expected from recurring retail operations.
We will provide more specific guidance assumptions including same-site NOI and occupancy targets on our year-end earnings call.
Last but certainly not least we are pleased to announce that based on our 2012 performance and the expectations for 2013 our Board of Directors has approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per common share to $0.21 per quarter an increase of 10.5% on an annualized basis.
Our FFO payout ratio remain conservative at a level of about 40 -- 64%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Glenn.
I'll start by going off script.
There are many questions surrounding the impact of Superstorm Sandy on the Kimco portfolio.
The good news is that the impact on the portfolio is relatively tame considering the devastation that the storm brought to the area.
Now recognize between Kimco's Northeast and Mid-Atlantic portfolios we have over 200 properties.
It's about 22 million square feet.
And remarkably most of it escaped pretty well.
Now our Mid-Atlantic region essentially untouched all but 5 centers have full power.
New York metro a little bit more impact mostly canopies facades some roof damaged on a few centers but very few issues that are shutting down the centers.
In fact although there is a significant amount of power loss in the area most of the major tenants are open for business through the use of their own generators.
Our crews are out.
Cleanup is already underway so there's very little impact.
The one area that we have not been able to gain access to is Staten Island because of the issues surrounding that particular area.
But we hope to get out there this morning and assess the situation in that market.
Most -- all of our properties will be fully covered by insurance and we have a very low deductible so there's certainly no economic impact on that.
And again with respect to our tenant base the majority of the tenants are open and operating so we don't see any significant issues coming out of rental revenues.
We will keep everyone posted as conditions warrant.
So that's the update on Hurricane Sandy.
And I do need to give a full public acknowledgment to our property management teams in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic who are doing an incredible job of getting out to the properties and making an assessment as we go through this process.
Okay.
Back to the standard stuff.
The third quarter operating metrics and trendlines remained solid.
And I think they underscore the strengthening of our portfolio base and the overall improving environment.
Both the U.S.
and overall occupancy levels improved again in the third quarter.
The U.S.
portfolio occupancy increased by 20 basis points sequentially.
Interestingly the uptick was due solely to smaller-space lease-up and it's certainly been a while since we've been able to say that.
The occupancy of spaces under 10 000 square feet jumped 60 basis points to 83.9% with 2/3 of the increase attributable to positive leasing activity and the balance that benefited from the dispositions.
Peeling back the onion a bit more the overall non-anchor space occupancy has jumped over 2% in the past 12 months and we're experiencing increases in both the true small-space leasing of under 5 000 square feet as well as the larger mid-shop spaces.
Consistent with prior quarters this shift is towards national and franchise concepts with the 2 drivers being food and service offerings.
On the anchor leasing side we did experience some important new lease signings but it was mostly offset from a couple of vacancies from the bankruptcy of RoomStore.
With respect to those new deals the eye-popping 40% positive spread underscores the ongoing trend of improvements in rental rates periodically turbocharged by a below-market anchor box space brought up to market.
In this case it was a location in Pompano Florida in which Kmart was replaced by Whole Foods and Sports Authority.
And I'd also like to point out that the meaningful increases were captured in releasing of spaces made available from the Borders and A&amp;P bankruptcies including Nordstrom Rack at our center in Manhasset New York and LA Fitness in Farmington Connecticut and a strong regional specialty supermarket replacing a Waldbaum's in Huntington also along Long Island.
Our U.S.
same-store gross number landed at 2.5%.
And I was quite pleased with this result knowing that the rent commencements for some of our replacement deals for those Borders and A&amp;P boxes wouldn't kick in until the fourth quarter and thought we might get nicked a bit on the comps for this reporting period.
However our renewal experience was better than expected and credit loss experience continues to improve underscoring the overall upgrade in tenancy and portfolio composition over the past year.
And as a result the U.S.
same-site numbers have averaged at roughly to 2.5% handled through the 9-month period.
So we are pleased with direction velocity and recovery of rental rates leasing spreads and NOI growth.
But we are not losing focus as there's still a lot of hard work and creativity needed to manage through some of the downsizing initiatives on certain formats the inevitable retailer bankruptcy and recognizing changing demographics and consequent demand in best tenant fit at our centers.
That said we're aided by increased demand for space conscious that it's the stronger retailers that are taking market share rather than the general economic rising tide lifting all boats.
It is the retailers that demonstrate operational excellence and/or focusing on differentiation often by catering to specific targets be it high-end or specialty or value or ethnic or other differences that are carrying the day.
And as mentioned earlier for smaller-space users services and food products and restaurants across the spectrum are filling the gaps.
Recognizing that over the long term the primary driver in demand for space and strong pricing at a property will remain its location and market we continue to push through our portfolio recycling efforts.
We accelerated the pace of dispose since the begin of the third quarter with a total of 23 properties and 2.7 million square feet exited over the past 4 months.
Because of these moves we were able to consolidate our 2 Ohio offices into a single one and generated over $116 million for reinvestment into our existing property base and purchases in our target markets.
We currently have deals set on 15 more properties and another 20 are in the market.
And we expect that pace to continue through the next couple of years.
Finally looking outside the U.S.
as Glenn noted currency movements did not help the cause for our Mexico and Canadian comparable results this quarter.
But in local currency terms we're still trending well and expect 2012 to end with an NOI level ahead of budget both in local currency and U.S.
dollar basis.
Latin America we executed a little under 200 000 square feet of leasing since our last earnings call and overall occupancy continues to increase.
As Dave mentioned in Mexico we reached the 90% mark on our portfolio of stabilized properties.
And when adding in those still in development and lease-up the overall Mexico occupancy rose to 86.9%.
Demand levels have continued to increase.
And our operating team there has noted an increased interest from U.S.-based apparel retailers to enter the Mexico market.
I think this has been helped by the reduction of tariffs against the wide variety of Chinese-made goods including shoes and textiles.
Canadian market remains healthy with an ever-growing roster of retailers expressing interest in opening stores north of the border.
Most recently Nordstrom announced its intention to open full -- 4 Full-Line Stores over the next 2 years and they'll continue to pursue additional opportunities for both more Full-Line and Nordstrom Racks.
That's my report.
And now for concluding comments if Milton is still on his cell phone I'll turn it over to him.
Yes I am.
Well thanks Mike.
Our business is to be the premier owner of retail real estate.
And the keyword is real [ph].
We own real estate and retailers are our tenants.
We have consistently pointed out that our retail tenants may come and go but our real estate remains growing in value over time.
Some retailers will continue to face challenges.
To mitigate those challenges we focus on 3 things.
One retailer who sell nondiscretionary items such as food supermarkets and warehouse clubs as well as discounters [ph] [Audio Gap]  That offer value in all economic [indiscernible].
Tenants with good credits.
Three tenants who have below-market rents.
Our list [indiscernible] by TJX the off-price apparel retailer.
The company has an [Audio Gap] of $30 billion.
[indiscernible] market [indiscernible] have 2 largest tenants as well with a 250 [indiscernible] our excellent investment rate credits.
[indiscernible] we handled 8 000 tenants representing almost 15 000 leases.
No tenant represents more than 3% of our annual base.
This highlights how diversified our portfolio is and how we have spread the risk in our portfolio.
We have diluted [ph]   [indiscernible] cash flows and dividends and repeatedly seized the opportunity [indiscernible] but have a good real estate.
Now we may be facing headwinds in the economy but on a relative basis our retailers should fare better than most.
And we're so gratified by the positive metrics in our portfolio and our return to core real estate.
And with that we're happy to take any questions.
Operator we're ready to move on to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from R.J.
Milligan from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike you touched on the leasing spreads a little bit.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more detail on the TI side which was up considerably from I guess the trailing 12-month number.
So just how that dynamic is working.
Sure.
The overall TI did go up.
I think it was in part due to the Pompano deal that I did mention because even though the footprint was the same it was a pretty significant rebuild of the existing location as well some of the deals that I'd also referred to in terms of new tenants at the former bankruptcies of Borders and A&amp;P also had more cost to it.
So in this quarter I think the activity and the rents -- excuse me the activity and the number of leases did uptick the average spending a little.
That said the rent dollars did support it.
So on a net effective rent basis at those spaces we were still well ahead of the previous NER.
Our next question comes from Jeff Spector from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see -- I don't know if you've done this analysis or provided it just thinking about as you discussed your efforts in pruning noncore assets but specifically your -- what you've labeled as noncore retail assets have you quantified the improvement what you expect in demographics in the portfolio? Jeff we haven't come up with specific quantitative targets on where we want it to go.
And I think that's in part because as Dave's comments as his prepared comments indicated we are going to remain and we find great value in being a national company.
So in being a national company just by definition we're going to have more blended macro statistics with respect to demographics than say someone who may be just regionally focused in one particular area or not.
All that said without a specific target I would refer back to some of the points that Glenn had made and also what you see in our published materials and presentations that the acquired sites -- again using it as a national footprint is somewhat representative of where we are looking to go both in terms of household incomes densities and population.
In addition to that we're going to look on a very specific basis on a given property as to barriers to entry or a particular attribute or series of attributes at the location that would prevent competition and give us more pricing power.
So when you blend all of those forces together continuing on a national footprint I think what you will see over time is a continuing improvement towards the demographic numbers that you see on our more currently acquired sites.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I wanted to see if Dave or if you could Mike give a little bit more color on Dave's comment at the opening talking about you're seeing an increase in store counts from discounters in '13 and '14? We have continued to see the demand increasing from the national and regional players as again as well as some of the franchise concepts.
It cuts across the board.
As we've said in different forums that retailers are expanding.
I think the expansion plans though are what I'd call more intelligent expansion than perhaps in the heyday when it was just open x number of stores because Wall Street wanted it.
And in certain formats I think the realities of not enough available space are coming to the fore because retailers aren't necessarily going to open in any and all markets.
There still is a bias towards those markets where they can estimate sales pretty well.
They're generally in fill [ph] existing population areas not a lot of greenfield.
So you put all those things into play the demand is still there but the supply continues to shrink.
I would just add this.
There's a Pricewaterhouse study of proposed openings of different categories.
And the 2 highest number of openings belong to the discounters and the warehouse clubs.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the guidance so you provide the breakout in the South [ph] and I just wanted to try to -- I mean you can sort of triangulate it but maybe if you could just provide what you have as the net dilution from the sale of InTown in the guidance? I know you're incorporating some -- I mean you are obviously incorporating the interest expense savings and the loss in income.
But any reinvestments or anything else in sort of mid-second quarter is that what I heard you say? So Paul as I mentioned we are expecting to have a closing.
And in the assumptions it's mid-second quarter.
InTown will provide this year a little over $0.06 so we've modeled in about $0.02 for next year.
So we have about $0.04 of dilution that will come from it.
Part of the guidance range again depends on when that timing occurs.
So if it doesn't happen until the end of the second quarter or the middle of the third quarter you'll get further toward the higher end of the range among other things.
But you still have a very solid increase from where we are right? We're expecting midpoint 2012 $1.25 midpoint of the new guidance is $1.31 so you're looking at 4.8% up.
Research Division</strong> So the $0.06 per share of FFO drop from non-retail is -- that's $0.02 of that is InTown and then there's other non-retail that's comprising the other $0.04? $0.04 of it is InTown.
The other $0.02 are the other things that we've sold off during the year and the repayment of certain mortgages and the other assets that have been monetized.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question is just on your acquisitions and dispositions activity in the retail side.
You talk about cap rates the spread between what you're selling and what you're buying and where they are today for your targeted markets.
Yes.
As we mentioned before 2 things are occurring -- for us anyway.
The high-quality properties we're buying are in the 6s today and sometimes drift a little bit south of that and that's an indication of the high demand for high-quality shopping centers in primary key markets.
That's where the highest demand is.
On the other side of the coin B properties in secondary markets there's still at least a couple of hundred basis points difference in cap rate.
Although activity in those secondary markets and B properties has picked up there's still a wide difference between those 2 categories.
Luckily in our case because we are also selling certain non-earning non-retail assets such our buildings our urban buildings in New York and Philadelphia and Chicago and Boston that we've sold over time those buildings were purchased years ago as redevelopment assets.
And today they produce no earnings.
So when you blend the sale of those assets with our non-strategic shopping centers that we're selling in the 8 and 9s and aboves the blend equals basically no dilution for us.
It's about an average of a 7% cap of what we've been buying and about a 7% when you look at all the dispositions we've had.
So for now there's very minimal dilution on our dispositions.
And the one thing I would add though is that as we go forward and as we successfully eliminate those non-earning non-retail assets we will be confronted with I think some mild dilution because there will be a spread on what we're buying and what we're selling.
But in many respects I've spoken with many of you on the sell side and the advice that I've constantly heard from you is that "Don't worry as much about FFO.
If you're recycling the portfolio and upgrading the portfolio you should get more than enough value creation and more than enough benefit in your multiple." So whereas we recognize that there might be a nick in the short-term FFO dilution -- or FFO estimates certainly I think that the research community would understand and embrace that relative to the recycling program that we've begun.
Research Division</strong> And is that nick included in the 2013 number at all? Yes.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the transaction activity for a moment.
Dave I think in your opening comments you talked about concentrating on those core markets and you talked about New York and D.C.
where you already have a big presence.
I guess as you execute that plan does that incorporate perhaps buying out any of your joint venture partners? Or is all that new incremental assets to the marketplace? From time to time we certainly have been buying out partners where we really like the properties and the markets longterm.
And we will continue to do that over time because some of these institutional investors prefer to go home or need to dispose of certain assets.
So that's certainly part of our acquisition strategy.
It's much easier to buy out a partner in a property that we've been managing for years than it is to bid for a property on the open market.
So that's certainly part of our strategy.
Research Division</strong> And were you trying to infer that there'd be actual near-term activity that would be boosting some of these markets? Or were you just saying it more as a long-term goal? More as a long-term goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Glenn quickly just in terms of the guidance in terms of the core retail FFO so the $2.29 to $2.36 so that's up $0.07 to $0.12 relative to what's you're going to produce this year.
How much of that is being driven just by sort of the core effective same-store versus the investments that you've made in terms of buying assets or the redeployment of some of the proceeds out of InTown? Just trying to understand the differential between really what is internal versus external growth in that number.
The majority of it today is internal.
If you look at -- just use the midpoint because it's just easier to work from you're looking at 4.5% growth of the total retail line.
Most of that is internal from the existing portfolio and from the assets that we've acquired and the growth rates that are in there.
And again the guidance range it's early it's only October but the guidance range is going to be somewhat dependent on how well leasing spreads go the further lease-up occupancy and the growth in those same sites.
But we've modeled it enough where we're comfortable with this range.
And we think 4.5% growth at the midpoint is pretty solid for a retail portfolio that has lots of long-term leases.
And to add a tack  [ph] on my earlier points Mike I think as we look at the recycling we will get the benefit the full year benefit of things we acquired in 2012 but we also will continue that recycling for 2013.
So the net acquisition -- to Glenn's point the net acquisition disposition activity is not going to be a meaningful adder to that.
Most of that is being generated from in-place existing property base.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then InTown is completely in the non-retail line.
There's no -- the debt that's on InTown is not in the corporate finance? That's not why that's going down.
That's just being driven by your positive refinancing correct? Correct.
Spot on.
Our next question comes from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> There's a number of small strip center REIT companies out there that have low market cap and high G&amp;A burdens no evidence of ability to grow over time.
What's your appetite to take out some of these companies? Or what's your appetite for public-to-public transactions? Well first of all certainly Kimco has a history of acquiring other public companies.
I think we bought 5 over the last 12 years so we're certainly experienced and constantly look at that opportunity.
But that said as we mentioned we are very determined to focus on these primary key markets and very high-quality assets.
So in some cases that will knock out the attractiveness of acquiring some of these smaller companies.
So we will look at this.
But again we're much more determined to make sure that we upgrade our portfolio over time by sticking to these key primary markets for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I'll squeeze a second question since it's a bit of a trend.
I noticed you bought back about $30 million of your shares so far this year.
What's the thought process behind that? That simply was just keeping the amount of share dilution down from option exercises and any restricted stock that was issued.
Our next question is from Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First a clarification.
Glenn for 2013 outside of InTown are there any acquisitions dispositions in that number? Or is it just nothing beyond InTown and what's been done so far? Well in terms of -- again from a capital plan it's not finalized yet but the initial capital plan is pretty much what we've been doing.
It's recycling.
So to the extent that we're selling assets both non-retail and retail we're redeploying that capital into other shopping center assets.
So we're pretty much net on it.
We're probably modestly a net buyer but very modestly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then post InTown if we're just looking at the remaining non-retail assets I know the yield on that is going be lower.
What's the effective NOI yield post InTown? It's really small.
It's like very low single-digit because what's left are our Philadelphia -- at the bulk of it it will be our Philadelphia assets which there is virtually no yield on.
And we have a small amount of marketable securities that has a small dividend yield on it but that's a longer-term play.
So it's very small.
It's probably in the 2 percentage range.
Our next question comes from Andrew Schaffer from Sandler O'Neill.
One quick question.
I was wondering if you guys have seen any slowdown in the small tenant leasing within the last 30 to 45 days.
No we have not not within the last 30 or 45 days.
It's been a continuous process of slow and steady increase in demand again with a bias towards the smaller national chains.
And then thinking bigger picture as the election and fiscal cliff are coming up do you see any slowdown on the larger national [indiscernible] tenants as well? Or this is probably [ph] across the board you guys are seeing slow progress? Yes.
I'll take the bigger tenants.
There is a momentum to these national chains and they're fully into this.
There's been no slowdown at all.
They establish their capital plans years in advance and so they're going forward.
There's no "capping on the breaks" that we can tell on these national retailers.
Our next question comes from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the Latin American front same-store NOI was down I think because of currency exchange rates.
Are spreads down as well because of that number one? And then number two I noticed you split out the industrial portfolio in Mexico as a separate line item in the joint venture category and I'm curious if anything special is going on there like maybe a potential sale of those assets? I'll answer the first part of the question.
The spreads in Mexico actually for new leases this quarter were mildly positive on new deals.
The disclosure shows that the renewals were negative which was outside of what we've normally seen and that really is just a restructuring of one particular account where we had a multiple tenant account that in exchange for a rent shift closer to the market we extended the term of the leases.
But in general Mexico leasing spreads over a period of time even though they represent a very small population to the total Mexico portfolio have slowly but surely improved although you have seen negative spreads in those -- for that very small population.
And I'll just add a little color to Mike's comment on this one restructure.
These were leases that are U.S.
dollar leases.
So it particularly hurt that retailer because his income was in pesos and his obligation to us was in dollars -- relatively unique for our portfolio.
We have very few retail leases that are in dollars.
This one did and it was part of the gives and the gets of extending certain leases and renewing them.
And that's why the leasing spreads in this particular case were still negative.
I'll take the second part of your question.
Just on Page 6 of our supplemental which is our NOI disclosures we have always showed the Mexico industrial portfolio.
And there had been a lot of requests from you and your brethren on disclosing it more on the joint venture side.
So we just broke it out to help you guys tie the thing back.
That's all.
Nothing else going on there.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the leasing activity Mike maybe you can break out what the new lease spreads would have been without the Pompano and Manhasset leases? They would have been a -- I'm doing this off the top of my head Nate I believe a high single-digit number somewhere in the 8% or 9% range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you look at the lease spreads for the spaces below 10 000 how would those look? They actually were positive as well similar rate much less impact.
And that's been the encouraging side of the equation over the past few quarters is where they -- when we report leasing spreads in smaller spaces a year ago it would've been negative [indiscernible] it down.
And they flattened out earlier this year and now they are net-net positive.
Also in terms of the number of leases that are positive versus negative have increased and actually are the majority now.
And I think a lot of that has to do with the fact that most of the fallout and most of the recycling if you will and rollover of some of the toughest spaces the toughest rents particularly out West have really for the most part run through the system.
I'd still give it a little bit more time before you really mark the entire West Coast portfolio to market.
But outside of that most of the other regions are strongly positive.
And so net-net you wind up with a mid- to high single-digit positive leasing spread.
Nate part of the advantage of the size of our portfolio and the age of our portfolio is things like Pompano do happen and we have those opportunities in a lot of cases just where we had it in Staten Island.
And there's more of those to come over time so I think it's one of the benefits of the size and age of the portfolio.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And Mike you just mentioned in your prepared remarks about some rent commencements moving into the fourth quarter.
Can you quantify what that was and what type of pop we might see in the same-store numbers in the fourth quarter? Well yes in the normal planning process I had attributed about 25 basis points on -- 25 to 30 basis points of same-store growth just focusing on the bankruptcies and when the leases were signed when the rents were going to commence.
So whereas I'm not rolling out an official fourth quarter same-site NOI I knew that that number was going to benefit the fourth quarter.
Hopefully that helps.
Our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Anything [ph] for Mike.
I recognize that capital might ultimately belong to their high net worth clients.
But one of the investment banks you're teamed up with on a significant JV has been in the press recently about derisking their balance sheet and reducing capital obligations.
Does that news have any potential to impact the buy-hold decision on that JV? Because I noticed your square footage was down there about 8% to 10% year-over-year.
If you're talking about UBS's very public statement and downsizing UBS has made it clear that they would like to exit over time.
And we've made no secret of taking a look at that and talking to UBS about either increasing our [indiscernible] or acquiring the balance of UBS's portfolio there.
It's been a long process as they've hired advisors to help them value their share of our joint venture.
But that is certainly one institutional partner that is looking at exit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave do you think that could be accelerated into next year? Or do you still think that's kind of a longer more drawn-out process? The UBS thing I suspect is a shorter-term timeframe.
Our next question comes from Jeff Spector from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just one additional question on the food retailing category.
It sounded like from Milton's comments it's an area of focus going forward.
And just curious to hear your latest thoughts on the category specifically Walmart's continued push.
And as you said the increase in discounters growing their store count but also increasing their presence.
How do you see that impacting your plans? Milton would you like to comment on that one? Well we've always pointed out that the conventional supermarket by and large is under attack by warehouse clubs Walmart superstores Target superstores ALDI's Trader Joe's Whole Foods -- you name it.
So the conventional supermarket has had difficulty and will continue to have difficulty.
And that's what we see in what we call the traditional supermarket.
So I think to just further that point Jeff you have seen pretty significant expansion from Whole Foods.
They're dealing with a particular subgroup.
On the low end of the value ALDI's made a more aggressive expansion.
The dollar stores are trying to increase the food component in their footprint warehouse clubs are doing well.
So it does cause us to take a good -- a close look at the "conventional supermarkets" the ones who are catering to the middle and don't have a particular niche.
That doesn't necessarily mean to say that they're all in trouble.
But as we evaluate the portfolio the viability of some of these larger supermarkets and just the sustainability of the property as a supermarket location that potentially other supermarket chains may take over those are the things that we put into the calculus.
Food will always be an important dimension of a shopping center portfolio.
It's just a question of being really ahead of the game and understanding a lot of the dynamics and macro forces that are affecting food retailing as we go forward.
From our point of view what we have to be careful about is the traffic generated by the supermarket and the issue of how many local stores can exist based on that volume.
We have maintained that many of the supermarket locations have too large a number of local stores and they can't keep their occupancy up.
Sorry I would just add one more point.
It is interesting to note that some of the private grocery chains are healthy and alive and cooking.
The Wegmans of the world the H-E-Bs the Publix they're doing quite well and still expanding.
Research Division</strong> And so at this point you haven't concluded yet whether it's going to be one traditional plus the rest you discussed.
You're still trying to figure that out.
Well we watch all of these companies and the specific real estate very carefully.
As we acquire properties we make sure that we can get a replacement grocer that the rent is below market that the store is right-sized and a good location and so forth.
So we underwrite all these aspects of our grocery-anchored properties and we're trying to be proactive as possible given that it is a very thin margin and competitive industry facing some challenges.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I thought it was interesting I guess given all the comments about the larger grocers.
Did you say on the small shop side though you're actually seeing some successful small shops in the food category? And if so I mean what are they doing? What are they offering? My comments associated with smaller concepts were generally many of the food chains everything from the traditional fast food and the McDonald's to the Burger King to some of the sit-down restaurants to the Chipotles of the world to the Five Guys Burgers the comment was made generally to say that as we think about the utilization of smaller spaces the 2 recurring formats that we see that are adding space that are adding to our occupancy are things that cut across the food spectrum as well as on the other side more service orientation.
And that can be -- just throw out a name a Massage Envy as one example or the Weight Watchers centers as another.
But just to give you a perspective of the smaller spaces are being filled that interestingly enough are things that are -- the old "You can buy it on the Internet" and that seems to be where the dynamic is.
Milton's point was about generally with supermarket-anchored centers is depending on the traffic that we want a reasonable amount of small stores to complement the supermarkets.
And one of the problems that our industry has had during the heyday of development is too much small store space was added to a grocery-anchored center.
And when the recession hit many of those fell by the wayside the dynamics of the shop couldn't support those business concepts.
And our next question comes from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one more question.
Any interest in SUPERVALU? SUPERVALU.
It's one of those situations where they need to reassess their whole business model and they need to consider all the alternatives.
Acquiring SUPERVALU in whole or in part is probably more the business of a financial buyer like a PE firm or maybe another supermarket operator.
We have been involved in some of those transactions over the years such as Albertsons but we've been involved essentially for our real estate skills.
So at this point Rich from the SUPERVALU situation I just wouldn't speculate as to our involvement there at this point.
And at this time this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks Jamie and to everyone that participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at www.kimcorealty.com.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Laura.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning is Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of 1 question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We are happy to report strong fourth quarter and full year financial results as well as continued progress on our key goals and objectives.
As customary Glenn and Mike will provide details and color and Milton will close with some general observations.
Overall the shopping center industry in our portfolio in particular continues to demonstrate steady and sustained improvement across the board benefiting from population growth and very little new development.
Effective rents and occupancy rates are increasing at an accelerating rate.
Our key metrics or vital signs as we like to say are very strong with 11 straight quarters of positive same-store NOI growth and an occupancy rate just under 94% representing our highest level since the start of the recession and very high leasing spreads.
Store opening counts continues to hit multiyear highs and small store vacancy levels are improving while the economy continues to be fragile with uncertain fiscal policies.
We are optimistic about the 2013 financial performance of our portfolio and the shopping center industry.
During the quarter we made good progress on several of our key objectives.
Our sales contract with Starwood Capital on the InTown portfolio is now firm with no due diligence contingencies and the sale is expected to close in the second quarter when the complicated loan assumption process is completed.
The InTown properties themselves continue to perform well.
During the quarter Blackstone signed a definitive agreement with UBS Wealth Management-North American Property Fund to purchase their equity interest in 2 large Kimco-managed UBS retail joint ventures encompassing 40 high-quality shopping centers containing approximately 5.6 million square feet.
The total transaction value is approximately $1.1 billion.
And Kimco is the current operating partner and presently owns approximately 18% of the combined ventures.
We have reached preliminary agreement with Blackstone to increase our ownership interest from 18% to 33% and to continue to provide management and leasing services to the new joint venture.
Also as previously announced we are very pleased to continue our participation in a 6-year-old service-led consortium which is now acquiring just under 900 grocery stores across 5 established and distinguished grocery brands.
The transaction will reunite the Albertsons stores the consortium already owns approximately 200 with the Albertsons currently operated by SUPERVALU approximately 400.
In addition to the obvious synergies all of the brands should benefit from the proven operating management team led by Bob Miller.
I would also like to again note our progress in recycling the Kimco shopping center portfolio.
During 2012 we sold 68 shopping center properties in the U.S.
which in general read or not in our key long-term markets were represented lower quality assets.
At the same time during 2012 we acquired 24 additional shopping centers with generally excellent demographics strong tenants and long-term growth.
We are committed to continuing quarter-by-quarter to upgrade our portfolio focusing on larger properties within our key markets.
The sale of the remaining non-strategic and non-retail investments will provide the capital to acquire additional high-quality retail assets.
On the international front Canada continues to perform very well with high occupancies and growing retailer demand.
We are particularly proud that Target has selected one of the RioKim joint venture properties Danforth to open their very first Canadian Target store.
This will be the first of 25 Target store openings per quarter in Canada which should be transformational in the Canadian retail industry.
With 9 new scheduled Targets in our Canadian joint ventures we are confident of both income and occupancy growth.
In our Latin American portfolio we are encouraged by the continued lease up progress in our Mexican properties coupled with a suddenly very vibrant real estate capital market.
Four recent Mexican IPOs and several follow-on equity offerings of the fertile Mexican REIT Fibra Uno are driving property values higher as the existing REITs perspective REITs and Mexican insurance companies and pension funds are all looking for quality real estate properties.
The Mexican economy is also performing well with a GDP growth rate of approximately 4% unemployment at 5% and a very strong manufacturing sector.
Mexico is now the fourth largest car manufacturer in the world.
With respect to South America where we own a small property portfolio consisting of 2 projects in Brazil 2 in Peru and 11 in Chile we have decided to monetize over time our investments.
Notwithstanding impressive projected GDP growth rates we simply do not have the scale or an efficient tax structure to meaningfully grow the South American portfolio.
We do expect to sell our South American properties at a gain given the robust real estate market in South America.
However capital gain taxes will be significant in several of the countries.
In the future we expect to focus our energies on North America and as mentioned before concentrate on certain key primary core markets which in general are highlighted by strong demographics limited retail per capita barriers to entry larger sized properties and higher population densities.
We are determined to achieve over time a consensus among our shareholders and analysts that Kimco truly owns and operates great products.
And now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of the quarter to be followed by Mike and Milton.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
We finished 2012 with a strong fourth quarter and delivered full year FFO as adjusted per share growth of 5% over 2011.
It was very encouraging as we were able to accomplish this during a period of meaningful asset recycling which will continue during 2013.
Our operating metrics of sustained side NOI growth occupancy and leasing spreads continue to deliver increasing positive levels.
We have accelerated our shopping center recycling program and we're in the final stage of monetizing our non-retail assets.
In addition we have been opportunistic in the capital markets which further strengthened our balance sheet metrics and liquidity position.
As we reported last night FFO as adjusted came in at $0.33 per share up 10% from the $0.30 level last year.
This brings full year 2012 FFO as adjusted to $1.26 per share reaching the top end of our guidance range.
Headline FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.31 per share which includes a $0.04 per share charge related to the noncash expense associated with the redemption of our $460 million 7.75% preferred stock and net transaction income of $0.02 per share primarily from promotes earned on several preferred equity investments.
We experienced very solid operating metrics during the fourth quarter.
Combined same-site NOI growth was 3.4% including the positive impact of currency of 20 basis points.
This is the highest level in the past 5 years.
U.S.
same-site NOI was the primary driver delivering 3.1% growth.
For the full year combined same-site NOI growth reached 2.9% excluding the negative currency impact of 60 basis points.
Occupancy climbed to 94% on a gross basis and 92.8% on a pro-rata basis up 30 basis points and 40 basis points sequentially and 70 basis points from the year ago.
Leasing spreads were strong at 11.8% with new leases up 25.5% and renewals and options up 6.1%.
We continue to be very active on the recycling front.
We sold 34 shopping center assets during the quarter providing $180 million in proceeds and quickly redeployed the capital by purchasing 9 properties in our key territories further evidencing our execution of the up quality trade.
We expect to pursue this objective through 2013 and beyond.
The non-retail assets are down to $398 million and we have contracts or offers on over $130 million including InTown Suites and certain of our urban assets.
We expect to monetize over $200 million during 2013 bringing the non-retail exposure to a nominal amount of our $10 billion balance sheet.
In November we took another trip to the perpetual preferred market issuing $175 million at a coupon of 5 and 5/8% using the proceeds toward the repayment of a 6% $199 million maturing bond.
In 2012 we issued a total of $800 million of perpetual preferred stock at a blended coupon of 5.78% and redeemed $635 million of perpetual preferred with a blended coupon of 7.45%.
Although we reported one-time noncash charges of approximately $22 million or $0.05 per share impacting LOI and FFO for 2012 we will benefit by over $13 million a year or $0.03 per share in real cash savings and reduced fixed charges going forward.
We've improved our net debt to recurring EBITDA to 5.7x a level better than the 6X we committed to at our 2010 Investor Day.
We remain focused on the importance of balance sheet strength with a target range of net debt to recurring EBITDA of 5.5X to 6X and a fixed charge coverage of at least 2.5X.
Our liquidity position's in excellent shape with over $1.4 billion of immediate liquidity.
We are pleased with our execution and results for 2012 delivering a total return to our shareholders of almost 24%.
There is more to be done.
Let me comment on our 2013 outlook.
We have completed our detailed property by property budget analysis and recognized that we will continue a very active shopping center portfolio recycling program further operating an overall portfolio of quality.
That being said properties we are disposing of typically have higher cap rates than properties we are acquiring.
As a result this upgrade of the portfolio might impact our near-term growth rate but the improvement in portfolio quality should lead to increased earnings growth and higher net asset value for the long-term.
In addition the disposition of InTown Suites expected during the second quarter has a $0.03 to $0.04 per share impact versus 2012.
We will benefit from the positive capital markets activities we concluded during 2012 and expect further positive results in 2013 by reducing our overall debt costs.
We are affirming our 2013 FFO as adjusted per share guidance range of $1.28 to $1.33 with a midpoint of $1.31.
At the midpoint range the FFO per share growth is a solid 4%.
This guidance is based solely on recurring flows and does not include any transaction in commerged [ph] sense including results from our recently announced participation in the SUPERVALU transaction.
Assumptions used to determining the guidance range included increase in occupancy of 50 to 75 basis points combined positive same-site NOI growth of 2.5% to 3.5% a significant acquisition and disposition activity.
The guidance range is dependent on timing of this activity.
In addition it is worth reminding everyone that there is some seasonality in our quarterly earnings.
For example the timing of our annual equity compensation awards which occurs in the first quarter and the timing of refinancing of our maturing debt.
Our capital plan once again does not assume any new equity requirements and supports our recently increased dividend level of $0.21 per quarter which equates to an FFO payout ratio of 64% one of the lowest in the industry.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Glenn.
Good morning.
We were very pleased with the fourth quarter performance metrics for occupancy spreads and organic growth but more importantly the overall shape and direction the portfolio is taking for the long-term.
In reflecting on the portfolio trends over the past year I'd offer that a couple of metrics underscore what is happening in the U.S.
portfolio.
As reported overall U.S.
occupancy increased by 80 basis points over the course of the year to 93.9%.
First the occupancy attributable to what we delineate as anchor space over 10 000 square feet increased 50 basis points this year to 96.9%.
Meanwhile the smaller shops spaces increased 170 basis points to 84.2%.
Those numbers not only point to the ongoing demand for real estate by larger national or regional chains but also showed a steady -- slow and steady improvement in the economic climate as evidenced by the increasing absorption of space by the smaller users.
However peeling back the onion a bit more the bulk of the increase in the anchor space was the consequence of our disposition activity and absorption was about flat a concern you might think initially but I view it as the opposite.
The available space from bankruptcy such as RoomStore and Syms or the end of term vacancies from Kmart and various supermarkets were absorbed very quickly a very different world than a few years ago.
And the value of those spaces was evident by the new leasing spreads of almost 28% for the full year.
As mentioned in the last call in between the singles and doubles of leasing deals the occasional home run is hit with the recapture of older boxes with below-market rent entered decades ago and we certainly gained that benefit this past year.
With over 1 000 leases that were originally signed more than 20 years ago in the portfolio I feel there is still a bit more harvesting to be done with future lease rollover.
The second observation is an offshoot of the previous point regarding the turnover of the box space.
While the rapid absorption underscores the demand retenanting always comes with some downtime.
And that inevitably causes a slight drag on same-site NOI metrics which on a full-year basis was 2.5% for the U.S.
However the commencement of brands for these newer leases should result in improvement of the same-store metric for 2013 particularly as we move through the year.
Of course if we have a similar level of rollover we may have a similar level of drag but the overall signals in growth appetite across the board remains very positive.
So with all these positive vibes there are still no shortage of concerns most notably what will or will not happen in Washington this year that impacts the economy and consumer confidence not to mention how the business and general media will overdramatize anything that happens be it good or bad.
And despite the encouraging advances of many brick-and-mortar retailers to integrate e-commerce into their business models online retail's impact on shopping centers cannot be ignored.
In response we are focusing our energy on positioning the portfolio for long-term sustainable cash flow and growth.
In that vein we've been very pleased with the acceleration of the asset recycling.
In the fourth quarter we sold over 3.9 million square feet of properties generating $180 million in proceeds for reinvestment.
We've brought the full-year tally to 68 properties covering 7.7 million square feet and $385 million of cash to Kimco.
Those sales were doubled to 200 -- to 2011 pace and our target is another 60 to 75 properties in 2013.
The dispositions are an important part of an ongoing push to focus our resources and invest capital in what we consider the company's key territories.
We remain convinced that a national platform that covers most all of the largest MSAs in the country a property-base that allows us to serve as one of the top landlords to most national retailers and that our base is broad enough to maintain a spread of financial risk it has enough depth in major markets to capture new opportunities is our core investment proposition.
While this model doesn't give you necessarily the highest comparable demographics or average rents but what it does do from the recycling efforts the particular metrics will improve.
And most importantly is to focus and maintain that reservoir of assets to generate stable and consistent NOI growth.
Our program is simple exit properties in our key territories where we perceive risk where that maximum potential has been reached and also exit properties in other smaller markets that have no particular economies of scale over the limited opportunity set to grow.
Much of the capital generated from the dispositions have been pushed back into existing properties in 2 ways; first the reinvestment through leasing with incremental returns redevelopment and overall upgrade of the property base; and second by increasing our ownership stakes in properties through a buyout of some or all of the interest in joint venture partners.
I'd like to point out that in no case were these buyouts forced or the result of a dispute.
It was generally the consequence of the partner wanting to monetize the position and Kimco determining that the property fit well into its longer term objectives in our key markets and territory.
We expect this trend to continue into the next few years.
In our portfolio outside the U.S.
prior contests mentioned of differentiation and focus on key markets and territories also comes to bear.
We remain committed to our Canadian portfolio exposure as a linchpin of the overall quality foundation of the company's assets and cash flows.
And even if we're not increasing that exposure in the current high-priced limited opportunity environment in Canada things run in cycles.
And we want to hang around the hoop for the long-term.
In Latin America Dave provided you with our strategic thinking.
But what I can add is that the Mexico portfolio has built positive momentum and is reflective of some of the good fundamentals in direct Mexican economy.
This portfolio contributed over $57 million to net operating income this year an increase of 16% before currency impacts.
With that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
The environment for our type of retail property continues to improve.
Absorptions are forecasted to outpace completions for the foreseeable future.
Retail store opening plans are at a multiyear high.
So while consumers will feel the impact of the end of the payroll tax holiday some major economic indicators are pointing in the right direction.
Above all labor market is slowly improving and home prices continue to recover.
Now as you've heard from my partners we feel pretty good about our business.
A business plan is on our track.
And since our Investor Day on September 23 2010 we acquired properties of total cost of $1.3 billion and disposed of sites at a gross price of $800 million a total transaction volume of over $2 billion.
And this illustrates that there has been a meaningful transformation of the portfolio.
Please rest assured that we disposed of properties that we felt did not meet our criteria for future growth and acquired properties that we want to own long-term.
The upgrade of our portfolio will greatly improve our long-term growth prospects and the property metrics and related demographics.
Well there are 3 aspects of Kimco's business that distinguish us.
First a national platform that enables us to service the needs of retailers in any part of the United States.
Two we have joint ventures which own approximately $10 billion of real estate that have and will continue to serve as an attractive source of acquisitions over time.
And three a long-term track record of retail-related opportunities that includes profitable transactions with Venture Stores Gold Circle Hechinger's Montgomery Ward Service Merchandise Kmart Ames Albertsons Woolworths Frank's Nursery Strawbridge &amp; Clothier Sprouts [indiscernible] I could go on and on.
Now we are confident that the SUPERVALU investment will also prove rewarding over time.
We continue to have the same management team headed by the legendary Bob Miller that created extraordinary value for our Albertsons investment.
And I'd like to conclude by thanking our associates for the wonderful job they are doing executing on our plan.
I'm excited by the future and opportunities I see ahead.
Now with this I'm very happy to take any questions.
Laura we are ready to move the question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from R.J.
Milligan of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about specifically the SUPERVALU investment whether or not that's purely a return expectation or whether you think it could have other positive effects on that core portfolio? And I guess whether or not you see this? And from Milton's comments it sounds like you don't see this as a one-off opportunity but you will continue to look at opportunistic -- opportunities and investments as they come along? Absolutely right.
The -- a our role in the SUPERVALU transaction is as a real estate partner.
We have been retained and have a fee arrangement but our principal job is to help in the monetization of surplus real estate aspects of the transactions that require real estate expertise.
And I suspect that out of that activity there will be opportunities for acquisitions and it should be accretive.
An example we own 50% of a wonderful property in Chicago.
And who owns the other 50%? Jewel.
For years we were trying to buy Jewel from the then SUPERVALU management.
Never got any place.
New management sees it.
They want to monetize their half.
We will wind up buying a property that we wanted to buy for years.
And other illustrations we had a wonderful Shaw's Supermarket in New England.
The volume the period before SUPERVALU bought it was $36 million and we were thinking of expanding it.
[indiscernible] the SUPERVALU management came in the plans to expand and drop.
That volume today led from $36 million down to $19 million.
So you could see the kind of upside in the profitability and also what extra volume does to the value of the real estate.
Well basically we're excited about a profit participation but most important what it can lead to in real estate opportunities and enhancing our portfolio.
Now this is not going to detract from what we've always wanted being fast in our footwork to seize opportunities [indiscernible].
And our next question is from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mike I just wanted to follow up on your comments on occupancy.
You talked about anchor space but did your acquisitions and dispositions last year have any impact on your small-shop occupancies? So what would've been the year-over-year change on a same-space basis? And I guess a similar question for 2013.
Your occupancy guidance is up 50 to 75 basis points.
How much of that is a result of capital recycling? Yes.
In looking at the overall growth in 2012 the occupancy increased.
About 2/3 of it was due to disposition 1/3 of it was due to net absorption in terms of the increase in the overall occupancy.
And when you break down the increase in net absorption it was clearly driven by small shop.
So volume was driven by small shop in terms of the occupancy increase but rate that is the leasing spreads was driven more by the anchor because we had that significant rollover positive leasing spreads of older leases that came due.
So that's 2012.
As we look to 2013 while we haven't refined it down to the exact percentage our occupancy projections are probably -- about half or more is focused on absorption and less than half is due to the recycling energy.
And I think that's just the consequence of having moved out of a lot of very low occupancy difficult properties.
The next round of asset so to speak in the 60 to 75 that I talked about is less about poor quality and poor occupancy and more about markets where we don't have a significant presence reasonably good properties but are just not a market where we have a lot of heft.
And as a result the occupancy in those properties is more to the Kimco averages.
And next we have a question from Quentin Velleley of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of Blackstone buying UBS' joint venture assets and you increasing your stake I think you said it was about $1.1 billion which would imply about a 7 cap rate.
I'm not sure if that math is correct.
And then just also I recall that you'd advised Blackstone on when they took the U.S.
assets of Centro.
Are you sort of viewing this joint venture as a long-term joint venture that could possibly grow or is it something more opportunistic? Well first of all the parties have asked us not to comment on the specific cap rate and so for -- so I'll leave you to your math on that part.
But we do value our relationship with Blackstone very much.
We have a great working relationship with them.
As you may remember they purchased our Valad note and we did work with them on the original Centro transaction.
So we have a good working relationship with them.
And we're very pleased to be able to come to terms with Blackstone to increase our stake in this wonderful portfolio.
It's very high quality assets.
And so we're very happy to be going from 18% to 33%.
And we're very happy to continue our role as the operating partner and continue to be paid for that.
So we value them and we hope to do other things in the future with them.
And the next question is from Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Going to the asset recycling so you said 60 to 75 properties this year but that the composition may be a little bit higher quality.
I mean so you were around that range in 2012 and it was $600 million or so.
In terms of a dollar volume should we assume more? And then most of those proceeds were used to -- for higher quality acquisitions.
Is that the way we should think of it this year? And then kind of what will be the -- is the cap rate spread narrowing relative to last year because of the improvement quality of the asset sale? I would say Paul that yes that will be 60 to 75 that it is slightly higher quality than what we've been selling the past couple of years.
It's also a mix between assets that are held by the REIT as well as in joint venture assets.
And not only institutional joint ventures but the array of smaller joint venture relationships that we've had many legacy deals that we've had for years and years.
So to try and put a circle around it we've just thought about it in terms of net cash to Kimco what it might generate in 2013.
And based on some estimates the targeted properties we are probably figuring somewhere between to $350 million to $430-some-odd million debt cash to Kimco.
And that represents the purchase price minus any debt particularly in joint ventures and in our pro-rata share.
Research Division</strong> Is the -- you've mentioned this is the spread cap rate spread narrowing then we should think of that? Yes.
I mean the cap rate is most likely going be a lower cap rate than what we've experienced in the past couple of years which is to trend -- tended to be around the 9 cap rate level.
The market for let's call it the assets or secondary cities has definitely improved.
We're seeing increasing demand and cap rates are drifting lower.
So we're encouraged by that.
And next we have a question from Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With this sale to Blackstone from UBS was there any management contract change at all? No.
It's important to note that basically Blackstone is stepping into UBS' Shoes and all of the fees and different services that we provide will stay as originally negotiated with UBS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing to say that Briggsmore [ph] is going to take it over at any point? No.
The next question is from Caitlin Burrows of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We noticed that your 2013 guidance range for FFO per share didn't change between what was given in the third quarter earnings but -- between now but that the components of it did change.
Can you go over what made the midpoint of the 2013 forecast for recurring retail go from $955.5 million to $943.5 million non-retail go from $15 million to $18 million corporate financing declined from 9 -- or $290.5 million to $280.5 million and G&amp;A go down from $127 million to $124 million? Sure but that's definitely more than 1 question.
But I'd be happy to take you through that.
Obviously when we put out our preliminary guidance back in October again based on best estimates we actually have more information today.
Some of the changes are you saw during the fourth quarter just some of the aggressive selling that we've begun.
And Mike's also talked about a more aggressive shopping center disposition program than what we originally had.
So that's driving some of the retail change.
And in conjunction with that because the capital plan has more capital proceeds in it from these transactions our requirements for an external debt or other capital needs are lower as well.
And that's kind of brought down -- that brought down the financing cost that we've now projected in the current guidance.
There's a small change in the non-retail.
That's really just looking at the impact of InTown.
InTown we've had beginning of the -- beginning to the middle of the second quarter.
Now we think it might be more towards the latter end of the second quarter.
So not a real big change there.
And on the G&amp;A line it's really just a bunch of small things that have changed there from lower expectation of consulting and professional cost and lower expectation need for some temporary labor.
The next question is from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm wrestling a bit with where you are with Mexico at this point.
I mean it seems like before maybe Mexico was something to monetize but now the economy seems to be doing very well down there.
Asset prices are climbing.
Maybe it's a place to invest more in.
So I guess what are your current thoughts on your Mexican investment strategy? Well first of all let's go through the list.
We are very pleased that there's been a pickup of momentum in terms of leasing activities.
So we're seeing it on the ground.
The rents are going the right way.
The occupancy is going the right way.
We're also absolutely fascinated how quickly the capital markets have changed down there.
The new public REITs and the demand for product of all types in Mexico is really quite amazing for somebody that's been following Mexico for a long time.
Investors are literally pouring into the country looking for real estate.
And it's a thin market in terms of quality real estate.
So what we have we think is much more valuable.
And to be honest with you we are looking at different things we can do.
The IPO market is robust.
We'd be foolish not to look at the IPO market.
We have been approached by a number of existing REITs perspective REITs and funds to acquire some of our high-quality properties.
We as you know we have different operating partners and we have an institutional partner capital partner GE all of whom have different long-term objectives in Mexico.
So we will be going basically property-by-property and partner-by-partner in deciding what to do long-term.
Now the other side of the coin is because cap rates have plummeted it's not very attractive for us to buy properties.
These cap rates are very low.
So just like Canada it's unlikely that we're going to increase our stake down there.
But we have decided as I mentioned in South America to exit.
We're just not big enough.
Taxes are tough down there and notwithstanding the prognosis for the South American countries down there in terms of the economy it's just not a good game for us and somewhat of a diversion.
And the next question is from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess looking at the new leasing spreads they've been pretty strong in the 20s the last 2 quarters.
And when you look out to 2013 do you expect it to be at comparable level? And when do you think you start to hit up against tougher comps? Is it '13? Is it '14? Do you have a few more years of visibility? As a general statement Mike I'd say that in looking at '13 the comps will be lower.
And the primary reason is when thinking about our core leasing plan having the anchors at 97% occupied most of the absorption is going to come and the leasing spreads are going to come from smaller spaces.
And the smaller space is a little bit more of a mixed bag.
We've got some great upside in certain markets and other markets are pretty tough.
We've talked ad nauseam in the past about some of the markets in Vegas and Reno and Central Valley in California et cetera that seem to temper the leasing spreads.
That said you can expect the unexpected.
And what we've seen over the past couple of years as I mentioned in my prepared remarks hit that home run or 2 on a big anchor deal that may turn over that gives you some extra juice.
On balance it's going to be positive.
I'm not going to predict these big double-digit numbers that we had this year but more directionally just map this out for the last 3 or 4 years in where we're heading it's all heading in the right direction and the arrow keeps moving up.
That's the best I can offer and I can't think about '14 '15 '16 because there are just too many variables that would affect a leasing spread.
But Mike did hit on a strong asset of Kimco.
We've got lots and lots of older leasing.
When people look at our average rent it has upside.
So in general we think we are going to outperform in terms of these leasing spreads.
It's just difficult to project these very high double digits to continue.
And the next question is from Andrew Schaffer of Sandler O'Neill.
Just wondering given the recent growth in private REITs are you finding that they are the primary buyers of the dispositions or you're kind of finding them flocked more to the core product? We find them A buyer.
They're certainly looking for yield and they can find the yield in some of these secondary markets and B assets.
But interestingly we actually find local buyers being particularly aggressive on one-off transactions.
They think they can do a little better job in their own market than we can.
They're buying some vacancy and that's just fine with us.
And next there is a question from Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at CapEx for a second when I look at on Page 29 your new leases and the TIs that you provided on the fourth quarter leases were roughly 20% of NOI is there anything that happened at a few of the leases that you had? Or is there a trend to providing a little more TIs in CapEx nowadays? Essentially the TIs and the CapEx that are provided are reflective of the market the ability to attract the rent in a given market and who's paying the rent.
So in our case the TIs have gone up and as a direct consequence of where the leases are being signed and who's signing them.
The big drivers this quarter are Nordstrom Rack in Colombia replacing a RoomStore a DSW in Manhasset New York and Long Island.
So we actually recycled an old underperforming supermarket with an LA Fitness.
All of these are relatively high rents because of the market -- that last LA Fitness was in Staten Island.
High-rent markets drivers with tenants who can't pay the capital there has to be a capital contribution.
And when you look at the net effect of rent it's still increasing.
When you look at the capital cost and proportion to the rent you're still recovering about 86% 87% of the gross rent.
And that's been the trend over the past couple of years.
So on balance looking at dealmaking not CapEx as a percentage of a static NOI which could reflect a lot of under-market rents we feel we're at market.
We've not overcharging so to speak or we're not buying up rents that sometimes they have that concept that's thrown out there just reflective of better markets better tenants good leases.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just staying on the topic and I'll squeeze in a second question on that.
Do you think that as you lease some perhaps of the tougher space that you have that you will continue to have CapEx of this nature roughly 20% of NOI or do you think you can reduce that? It comes down to the composition of the leases -- the spaces the sizes.
You've seen a growth in capital tenant improvement dollars generally associated with large boxes larger tenants and better markets.
My earlier point that proportionally more of the leases -- the lease volume in 2013 and probably beyond will be in smaller tenants.
I don't think the average ticket price capital will probably be lower.
But there's still a little bit more runway in some anchor deals that we have on the table.
But I can't say we're maybe hitting a high point in '12 and '13 in terms of average TA dollars per square foot.
But it clearly is reflective of what -- of the benefit of some of these anchor leases and better markets.
And when you look at the total package which is the rent we are able to achieve the free rent provisions the TI and so forth as a total effective rent effective rents are moving up for us.
So we suspect that it is not quite a landlord's market but it's moving a little bit away from the strength that the tenants had to demand huge TI packages and so forth.
And our next question is from Michael Gorman of the Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question for Glenn.
You talked about some of the improvements on the balance sheet side and some of the progress you've made there on the debt-to-EBITDA on the fixed charge.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about the weighted average maturity for the consolidated debt? It's down around 3 years now down from over 5 and I'm just kind of wondering how you're thinking about that going forward and where you'd like that to be over the long-term? Yes.
I think you'll see it get extended out a little further.
Again we haven't issued a new bond since August of 2010.
But when you see a new bond come that will be a 10-year deal.
So that will certainly extend it out further.
We've also paid off some debt with perpetual preferred stock.
So you're seeing debt get removed from the balance sheet when you're looking at it and you have no maturity.
But in general we are going to continue to extend out the duration and obviously keep the debt maturity staggered as we always have.
And the next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question's on the 9 new Targets in Canada you said resulting in incoming occupancy gains.
Is that because there were greater vacancies surrounding Zellers' entrances or just a general lift to the shopping center where you can get more in lease spreads going forward? Generally more of a lift.
You've got a lot of tenants that want to be located next to new Targets.
So if they're local stores and those are shorter term leases we expect them to roll to higher rents than they would have if the Zellers was still there.
Target is expected to drive a lot of traffic to these centers.
And as you know Target had spent a lot of money fixing up these stores.
So it's exciting it's brand new for Canada.
The average Canadian's very excited about Target entering.
So we suspect an uplift.
And if you talk to RioCan I think they can give you some more specifics because they're seeing it.
Research Division</strong> And so it could happen relatively quickly at least for you? Yes starting -- again starting in March you'll have 25 a quarter coming on stream up there.
And the next question is from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this from earlier but just going back to the FCU I think you said the guidance recurring guidance are -- doesn't include any impacts from that investment.
But I guess are you saying that the accounting treatment is such that you're owing to make booking transactional type of income from that or are you just choosing to exclude that impact? Well there's a couple of things Vincent.
First of all the transaction is really in 2 parts.
Part of it is going to be in marketable securities so that will just show up on the balance sheet in that line.
Unless there's dividends there's no real change that would occur.
So the mark-to-market just runs through the other comprehensive income line.
The other portion which is the investment in the stores the accounting isn't resolved yet.
We're not sure if we're going to be on the equity method or the cost method.
But in general we're going to treat this as part of our transactional income right.
So we're going to keep the recurring the way we've been showing it all along.
And anything that happens relative to this will show up in that transactional income or in the headline number.
And our next question is from Samit Parikh of ISI.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure you've gotten this call -- this question before from investors.
But just curious can you talk about your outlook on your business sort of over the next year or 2? And how you think about that correlating with the recovery in the housing market? Well the housing market is such a vital part of the retail market.
When you have new homes built people need furniture appliances there's job growth.
So I would say that the new rooftops new construction new occupancy is one of the most important parts of increase in activity for retailers.
So it's a very important part.
Our next question is from Mary Gilbert of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the SUPERVALU transaction mainly with the investment in the stores that I think you were talking about in the examples that you cited for potential realization opportunities.
And so with the example that you've cited let's say for example with Shaw's it sounded like the strategy there would be to improve the operations first before recognizing value.
Is that how should we look at it because I wondered if you saw opportunities let's say very soon to maybe sell off some of the non-strategic operations there being the Jewel stores [ph] the Shaw's and the ACME to focus on the core Albertsons.
Do you think that...
It's a pertinent question because we had dinner last night with Bob Miller.
And he has said the most important thing in this turnaround is to get the customer back that to have fresh produce to have the kind of an excitement in a store where customers can come back.
And that will be the first objective turnaround of inception [ph].
Shaw's was once a marvelous place to shop.
Anyone who's in New England knows what has happened.
Similarly Jewel had a fantastic share of market.
But the objectives are to first get the customer back get the customer into the store.
And that will -- is the #1 priority.
There will be -- there is surplus property that's separate and apart from the turnaround of the store level.
And that Ray Edwards of our company is working on and involved and there will be monetization on there of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can I follow up with that? How soon do you think you would be getting dividend from this as you should with Albertsons LLC? We don't know.
I mean Albertsons we've got 5X money back pretty quickly.
And it's going to be hard to say.
I happen -- I -- generally I am a pessimist.
But with this management team and the skill of the letting the partners that are in the transaction I think it's going to happen relatively quickly.
And our next question is from -- is a follow-up from Samit Parikh of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Mexico real quick.
You talked a lot about cap rates coming down in Mexico.
Can you tell me where you think you could transact both the industrial and retail today? And also just quickly on that as well on listing do you think you need to bulk up the portfolio more to have a successful listing? I think both in industrial and retail good properties are going to trade in the 8s now whereas a year ago it was 9.
It's quite amazing and may be headed towards the low 8s very high quality properties.
As you know the industrial is U.S.
dollar rents whereas the retailer is peso rent.
In terms of the size of an offering no you could be relatively small.
That doesn't seem to be an issue.
What was intriguing to us particularly is the new Macquarie REIT because instead of an operating company going public it's just an asset manager.
All of the property management leasing is done by the sellers of those assets into the Macquarie REIT.
Macquarie is just an asset manager collecting fees and so forth.
So it makes what we have even more viable as a public vehicle because we're not an operator in Mexico but -- So it's just amazing what's going on down there.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Laura and to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at kimcorealty.com.
Thanks so much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Kimco's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Sue.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Pappagallo Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We are pleased to report very solid first quarter results as well as continued progress on our key goals and objectives.
As usual Glenn and Mike will provide details and color and Milton will close with some general observations.
Perhaps due to the recovering housing market and record stock market highs and fund inflows the consumer continues to spend despite the sequester and the ongoing fiscal stalemate in Washington.
Retailer store opening plans have reached the 5-year high and when coupled with virtually no new supply of retail space effective rents are beginning to escalate in many geographic regions.
Most industry analysts believe that retail development will remain limited for several more years which bodes well for continued improvement in shopping center metrics including occupancy same-site NOI and leasing spreads.
Looking at first quarter results.
We are particularly happy with the same-site NOI growth of 4% a 5-year high and our 12th straight quarter of positive same-site NOI growth.
Leasing activity was also strong with close to 700 new leases renewals and exercise options and leasing spreads of 13.5% for new leases and 2.7% for renewals and options.
Small store occupancy also continues to recover with certain regions like the Northeast especially strong.
With respect to some of our key goals for 2013 the InTown sale remains on track for a late May early June closing following a lengthy loan assumption process.
Yesterday we also sold the New York City nonretail property for $7.3 million.
And we have another New York nonretail property under firm contract for $38.5 million which should close in June.
In addition we anticipate selling in the second quarter several of our large remaining nonretail properties in other geographic areas.
In Mexico one of our joint ventures has executed a firm contract with closing subject only to Mexican government antitrust approval to sell 9 of our existing shopping centers for a gross price of approximately $271 million representing a substantial gain to Kimco.
As mentioned on our last earnings call the real estate capital markets in Mexico have surged and we are taking advantage of sharply higher prices to sell some of our assets.
We anticipate additional sales if the markets remain strong.
In South America regarding our portfolio of 15 properties we have reached either a tentative agreement to sell our equity interest to local operating partners or we have retained third-party sales agents to market the properties.
We expect disposition activities will be completed by year end with a modest aggregate gain.
Our reasons for selling remain as discussed last quarter: lack of scale and expensive tax structures limiting our economic returns.
In the U.S.
our joint venture with Blackstone to acquire the UBS Wealth Management - North American fund position in 39 high-quality shopping centers is scheduled to close over the next 30 to 60 days.
We are also very pleased with the closing of the Cerberus-led SUPERVALU transaction which reunited the Albertsons stores our venture already owns with the Albertsons stores formerly operated by SUPERVALU while also purchasing 4 other supermarket branch: Acme Jewel Shaw's and Star Market.
And making a direct investment in SUPERVALU in its post-closing operations including Save-A-Lot stores.
We are pleased to note that our SUPERVALU shares have materially appreciated since the closing.
Other U.S.
investment activities since the beginning of the year primarily involved opportunistic purchases of joint venture equity interest from 5 different institutional partners totaling $53 million.
As Milton has mentioned our third-party asset management portfolio totaling roughly $10 billion remains an excellent reservoir of off-market opportunities to acquire full interest and control of high-quality retail properties.
During the quarter we also acquired the second phase of our large grocery Anchorage shopping center complex in the high income community of Wilton Connecticut.
Owning both bases of the property provides us with maximum flexibility to renovate and expand the property.
We also remain committed to upgrading our property portfolio and transitioning towards larger properties in more densely-populated Kimco core markets where we expect superior job growth and higher retailer productivity and rent.
Our scorecard since the fall of 2010 consists of the disposition of 112 properties totaling $854 million and the acquisition of 64 properties totaling roughly $1.5 billion.
The market continues to improve for B properties and secondary markets and we expect to close numerous additional sales over the balance of the year.
Finally and given its importance to our tenants in the shopping center industry I would like to comment on the Main Street Fairness legislation.
After passing 2 test votes the Senate has scheduled a final vote on the legislation for Monday at 5:30 p.m.
Unlike the cloture vote which required 60 votes to advance the Main Street Fairness bill Monday's vote requires 51 votes to pass the Senate and move on to the house.
We are cautiously optimistic but again respectfully request the kind word of support from anyone who has a direct relationship with a U.S.
Senator.
Putting our retail tenants on an equal footing with e-commerce retailers is simply long overdue.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial results to be followed by Mike and Milton.
Well thanks Dave and good morning.
We are very pleased to have 2013 start off the same way 2012 ended on very positive footing.
Our first quarter results are a clear product of the execution of our business strategy focused on improving metrics at the property operating level further recycling of capital to acquire up quality assets and maintaining a strong balance sheet with plenty of immediate liquidity.
Let me provide some color on the first quarter results.
As we reported last night FFO as adjusted per share came in at $0.32 as compared to $0.31 for the same quarter last year in line with our expectations.
FFO as adjusted excludes $5.2 million of transaction income primarily from a disposition of a nonretail preferred equity position and $2.5 million of transaction costs primarily related to the acquisition activity.
As a result our headline FFO per share came in at $0.33 per share versus $0.31 per share last year.
The operating team kicked off the year with above-plan results.
We delivered combined same-property net operating income growth of 4% including a positive 20 basis point impact from currency.
Our U.S.
same-property NOI growth was 3.7%.
This is our highest quarterly increase in same-site NOI in over 5 years fueled by an improving economic environment and the upgrading of the portfolio.
In addition we continue to see positive results on the leasing front evidenced by the strong leasing spreads delivered.
Although U.S.
occupancy was modestly lower by 20 basis points from year end the result of the typical flow out of the holiday season occupancy remained at a solid level of 93.7% 90 basis points higher than a year-ago.
We spent a good portion of the first quarter teeing up transactions as we continue to pursue capital recycling.
We expect to conclude the InTown Suites sales during the second quarter netting proceeds to us of approximately $90 million.
The impact of this anticipated sale has already been incorporated into our guidance range.
We have other nonretail dispositions in the works and expect that by the end of 2013 the nonretail asset discussion should be a thing of the past.
We have continued to work the retail shopping center portfolio as well signing contracts for the sale of 14 properties for an aggregate sale price of approximately $111 million.
And as Dave mentioned our contract for the sale of our interest in 9 assets in Mexico which is expected to yield proceeds of $94 million in the substantial non-FFO gain.
Proceeds from these sales totaling close to $300 million are anticipated to be used to reduce debt and acquire assets in our key target markets.
As you know another of our stated objectives has been to further simplify the business model.
To that end we have acquired the remaining interest in 4 more properties in our key target markets from our various joint venture partners and increased our ownership percentage in another JV program.
We expect to continue to explore opportunities to acquire properties from the joint venture programs over time.
On the capital front we have made a significant progress on the refinancing of maturing debt both on the consolidated balance sheet and in the joint venture programs.
We refinanced our 8.58% $1 billion peso facility to approximately USD 80 million with a new 5-year floating rate peso facility at a spread of 135 basis points over the Mexican 28-day rate which today equates to an annual rate of approximately 5.7%.
This loan is prepayable without penalty at any time giving us plenty of flexibility.
In addition we paid off a $100 million 6.125% bond leaving us with just $175 million of U.S.
bonds maturing this year and a CAD 200 million bond which matures in August which we expect to refinance in the Canadian bond market later this year.
On the nonrequest mortgage front we have closed 6 transactions and have executed term sheets on 9 more deals totaling over $513 million.
The weighted average interest rate savings is approximately 170 basis points compared to the debt being replaced.
Our liquidity position is strong with over $1.2 billion of immediate availability.
As a result of the positive operating performance delivered for the first quarter we are increasing our same-site NOI growth expectations by 25 basis points bringing it to a growth range of 2.75% to 3.75%.
In addition we are increasing the lower end of the 2013 guidance to $1.29 bringing the FFO per share as adjusted guidance range to $1.29 to $1.33.
At the midpoint of the $1.31 per share this represents a 4% growth rate compared to 2012 and as I mentioned incorporates the sale and impact of InTown.
Please keep in mind that our guidance range does not include transaction income or expenses.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike for a more in-depth look at the shopping center portfolio.
Thanks Glenn and good morning.
The first quarter portfolio performance reflects the combination of solid market fundamentals in our sector but also the specific actions we've taken over the past couple of years through recycling of the portfolio and investments made to create value in our core asset base.
The U.S.
same-site gross number of 3.7% was driven essentially by growth in minimum rents as leases signed over the past year began to hit the books as our tenants opened for business as well as improved overall credit loss across the portfolio.
The occupancy levels in total were 70 basis points higher than a year ago and 90 basis points in the U.S.
That movement reflects the combination of positive absorption the aggressive disposition of underperforming assets and selected acquisition activity.
On a U.S.
same-site basis the occupancy rose 30 basis points with the balance being the effect of the acquisition and disposition activity.
As Glenn stated we saw a marginal decline in the leased occupancy since December of 20 basis points a similar first quarter pattern over the past few years.
I would note that for the space under 10 000 square feet half of the fallout was due not from mom and pops but the closure of 9 Fashion Bug stores as a consequence of Ascena Group's acquisition of their parent company and decision to shut down that chain.
Overall small shop trends continue to improve albeit slowly.
We're encouraged that the new deal spread even for the smallest spaces between 0 to 5 000 square feet has turned positive this past quarter.
Overall the new leasing spread again posted double digits and renewals and options also remained sturdy with the overall 3.8% increase.
With overall leasing spreads positive for 7 straight quarters it's apparent that we're in a self-sustaining recovery in rental rates.
All of these metrics reinforce a much more favorable leasing and operating environment.
That isn't new news for the best properties and best markets yet where I'm more encouraged is the pickup in action for assets that have had little since the slower emergence from the days of the financial crisis.
And one example is our center in Anchorage Alaska one of the last developments from our former merchant building program.
We secured a Bass Pro Shops lease for a new 75 000 square-foot store that will scrape and replace over 58 000 square feet of existing vacancies.
Retailer demand continues to be strong and is now advancing for opportunities to come out of the ground with new projects.
While Dave points out that new retails development will remain limited by historical standards we do have a couple of opportunities that seem to be coming together.
One a Phase 2 land of a property we built in Boise Idaho years ago; and another at a prime location in Christiana Delaware near the mall.
Things aren't fully baked but are getting there.
And I offer this examples simply to indicate that well-positioned real estate in established retail corridors is getting the attention of retailers as in-place inventory is filling up.
That said the focus continues to be what we can do at existing properties in terms of redevelopment and expansions and investments there still yield the highest relative return.
One other type of investment we're making is strengthening the operational backbone of the business and thinking creatively about the future.
Some of the initiatives are described on our website including the energy management and sustainably programs and leasing programs such as the KEYS and a fast-track finance program as well as social media outreach.
But we've drilled it down even further.
And we're thinking how we approach the management of properties and tenants with new standards for property visits and capital planning tenant communication practices and better internal coordination.
We're also piloting a Wi-Fi deployment and data analytics that will support tenant strategies and enhance our prospecting tactics at certain of our larger centers.
Lastly as Dave reported much of acquisition activity in the first quarter involved either partner buyouts or the purchase of adjacent GLA of existing shopping centers.
In effect investing with a much lower degree of risk due to our knowledge -- in-place knowledge of the asset.
And while it may appear that we took a breather on the disposition side we have closed 2 property sales since the end of March.
And between the 14 others under contract and 4 accepted offers we also have an additional 22 in the market today.
And with that I'll turn it over to Milton.
Well thanks Mike.
I would like to comment on several distinguishing Kimco attributes to wit: size tenant mix and geographic diversity.
These attributes provide downside protection and upside opportunities.
We are a national company with a national platform.
We are the largest landlord to Home Depot Target Costco Walgreens TJX Companies just to name a few.
With such a large number of leases retailers are inclined to review our portfolio to possible expansion opportunities and work closely with us.
Through our geographic diversity the bulk of our revenues come from locations at the top 30 MSAs in the country which have strong demographics.
Our national platform also helps us underwrite transactions in any part of the nation.
As a result we are a valued real estate partner in the SUPERVALU transactions and other ventures because of our ability to evaluate assets quickly throughout the country.
I continue to be optimistic for our SUPERVALU investment and feel confident that the management team can replicate the remarkable success of our original Albertsons investments.
And now I'd like to comment on cap rates.
There's a wonderful blog entitled "Look Ma No Inflation" by that REIT seer Ralph Block.
Ralph postulates that gold silver oil and other commodities are selling far below the February 2012 peak.
Future inflation is likely to be in the 1% to 2% range rather than 2% to 3%.
And if inflation declines by 1% cap rates should similarly decline by 1%.
And the softening in prices should help the consumer and certainly help retail real estate.
Now what defines quality real estate? My definition of quality real estate is real estate that has a safe sustainable growing cash flow over an extended period of time in good markets.
With the 12 straight quarters of positive same-store NOI growth improving leasing spreads and occupancy levels our portfolio has outstanding quality and should warrant low cap rates.
As I've said before I believe the REIT is nothing more than a common stock that must comply with certain tax requirements.
And in evaluating common stock the most important metric is management management management.
And management must understand the importance of maintaining a balance sheet that always has access to capital.
And through our improved fixed charge coverage net debt-to-EBITDA level strong liquidity position we have accessed debt and preferred stock at reduced costs.
Secondly we have to be fast on our feet-work to seize opportunities.
And this has always been part of our DNA.
And third to continue to strive to be a low-cost provider.
We treat the shareholders' money as though it were our own.
And I believe our culture continues to meet all of these fundamental tenets.
We're gratified by the first quarter results and feel confident that we can continue to create value for our shareholders.
And my thanks go to a superb team of associates.
And with that we welcome any questions.
Sue we're ready to move on to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the comments about the more frequent buying in of joint venture interest in properties.
Is this an active strategy where you're sort of approaching your partners to communicate that you're a willing buyer for the right properties and the right price? Or will we just continue to see someone one-off occasional opportunistic purchases? I'm just kind of looking for some color on how aggressively you're pursuing these purchases.
Christy we are trying to be proactive.
And as we've noted before over time management changes strategies change of our institutional partners and many have expressed their willingness to reduce their investment in some of these joint ventures.
For us it's an off-market opportunistic opportunity for us and there's a win-win in many of these transactions.
We manage these portfolios now so we know them very well.
And an opportunity to do a purchase on a negotiated basis is a wonderful thing for us and it simplifies our platform.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley of the Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just on your relationship with Blackstone they purchased Valad and you had advised them on the Centro deal and obviously they had just recently purchased the UBS stake.
There's been media speculations on discussions that you had for purchase of the Brixmor portfolio earlier this year.
Can you maybe comment on that speculation? Well I loved Milton's response to the Wall Street Journal reporter where he said we talk to lots of people.
And in fact there are not many retail REITs we haven't talked to over the years.
And that's about all we want to say right now.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> With SUPERVALU done could you talk a little bit more about the transaction and kind of how you expect your role to play out near term? And kind of whether maybe contrast it with the Albertsons experience? And kind of maybe what your role near-term versus kind of a longer-term perspective will be? Well the SUPERVALU transaction is very exciting to me.
I'll just take a moment Paul.
There are 2 pieces of real estate just as an example that SUPERVALU has.
One is a Star Market in Boston on Boston Street.
By the way that Star Market stayed open all night to serve food and refreshments to those injured in the Boston Marathon.
That site in Boston a successful store but there were offers in excess of $25 million by people who want to build a high-rise apartment house.
A second illustration is a Jewel store in Chicago in the Gulf Coast.
And there is a huge multi-use retail office and apartment complex planned.
So there is a business that's turning around that has been more abundant and some of the results were very encouraging with I think increases in the meat department Ray is with me...
Yes 18% in certain stores just by improving the meat department and bringing people in.
So that I feel very excited about what the ultimate result is.
And as I said I feel we can replicate the fantastic result we had in monetizing Albertsons.
And I would just point out.
That of the 900 stores that we acquired under these 5 banners 45% are either owned or long-term ground leases.
So it is real estate rich from an owner's perspective.
I mean I just -- also one thing I'd point out is we have 26 locations: 19 under the Albertsons Jewel banner and then 7 or 8 of that are SUPERVALU.
That we think are going to directly benefit from the new ownership and the operations.
So our 26 shopping centers directly will benefit in our -- and have a better credit and the tenants do better in those locations.
Research Division</strong> Can you monetize the real estate while at the same time trying to optimize the recovery in the brand? I imagine a lot of those stores are also some of the most productive.
To what extent can you be aggressive on the real estate at the same time as...
Well I think what happened in '06's acquisition was it wasn't until '09 and 2010 that we monetized it.
And the reasoning was we wanted to prove the case out in how we are going to increase the value of the stores.
Because as the operations improve the ability to monetize that real estate increases dramatically.
So at this point they're just focused from the company to improve the operations right now.
The next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess this is a question for Mike.
The leasing activity and the spreads at Kimco seem to be peaking at a time that's later than a lot of your peers.
Is there any thought on why that is? Craig it's tough for me to marry it up against other -- our peers in trying to do a relative analysis.
But from our perspective we -- our spreads are very often driven by the larger locations or available spaces that are substantial REIT below market.
And what we are finding is that in the natural rolled -- rollover of leases that we are -- seem to be finding an increasing number of opportunities where we are capturing below-market rents in our process.
So I don't know if it's necessarily peaking but we are continuing to see to some degree an acceleration of these recaptures of below-market rents.
And that I think in turn reflects that fact that the retailer demand is increasing.
There is more opportunity for us to rollover very positive rates.
And Craig one other point.
We have over 1 000 leases where the contract rents were entered into over 20 years ago.
That's a built-in natural base to increases over time.
Research Division</strong> There's something to be said for age? Not much.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> This is a question for Dave.
Dave you've been pretty vocal for quite some time on the Internet sales tax.
And while it certainly make sense for large retailers the Amazons of the world and folks like that when you think about it whether the future of retail is incubating new concepts whether they open up as a temp tenant or perhaps start online and then grow and then hopefully take space in one of your centers.
Why would the bar be set so low at $1 million versus a $10 million threshold just given the complexity of dealing with -- complying with all the various tax jurisdictions across the country whereas a local operator in one of your centers doesn't need to compete for that.
Wouldn't you guys want to promote more incubation of more retailers that ultimately do cross the threshold have to pay tax and move into one of your centers? Let me challenge the assumption that the benefit of this would be mainly the national retailers.
The small mom and pops have been absolutely devastated by competition from e-commerce.
You'll see it in the occupancy statistics of all of us public retailers REITs our vacancy factors are much higher in small stores.
And that's directly the result of e-commerce competition.
As an example for instance if you are a small jewelry store and somebody comes in and prices an engagement ring and you have to charge the sales tax and meanwhile they get the color the carat all of the quality stuff and go dial up Blue Nile and they can save literally hundreds of dollars.
And it's another cut to that local jewelry store.
I can't tell you how many local small businesses have been impacted by both this concept of showrooming where people come in for instance a children's footwear store where mothers will ask the clerks to measure the shoe sizes of their children and then look at the merchandise and write down serial numbers.
And then leave and go order it from Groupon or one of these other e-commerce things to avoid paying the tax.
ICSC has statistics about shoppers when they go online if that Internet retailer is beginning to charge sales tax for whatever reason they will shift to another.
And so it is very important to the local stores.
The startups will do just fine.
And the -- our local tenants would love to have $1 million exemption on the first million dollars they sell.
I think it's quite frankly too high but it's a compromise in terms of the legislation to get it done.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the -- I mean the Groupons the Zappos those guys are already big enough that they would have to pay the sales tax.
I'm thinking about a small start-up selling whatever wears.
For them it is costly.
That's why the millions seems very low $10 million seems a bit more appropriate so...
It's not that costly.
As part of the legislation software will be made available for these people to very easily do it.
Amazon already offers a service to collect the sales tax for Internet e-commerce guys.
So it's just making a level playing field.
Why should an Internet seller located in some other place that's selling to a state that collects sales tax not have to pay that sales tax on the residents who purchase it? Remember this isn't a new tax.
They are already obligated to pay a use tax the purchaser.
So it's just that nobody pays it.
So there's an obvious advantage.
So yes we feel very strongly about it.
All of us retail landlords feel very strongly.
And if you think I feel strongly about it call up Mr.
Simon.
It's just long overdue.
The next question comes from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the development commentary about the supply thing.
Well -- but also trying to tie that back to sort of the comments about the retailers opening stores at a faster pace than in quite a while.
And also the improving B market.
I mean from all those comments can we just reasonably assume that retailers would prefer to move into a B quality asset or a secondary market at this point versus paying up for development in maybe a better market? I'd still -- I personally believe that is the case.
Because many retailers were hurt with these development projects in the last recession that were partially built bankruptcies foreclosures that they weren't able to deliver the projects on time.
And this time around retailers simply don't want to wait several years while these projects get entitled arrange for construction financing do preleasing.
And rents have not returned to the previous levels necessary to make the economics work that well.
So I still believe it's going to be quite a few years before you will see any kind of significant ramp up of activity.
And the retailers are looking for space that either retailers are struggling with and are willing to give back or perhaps a secondary location just to get open right away and meet their store count right way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like it's more of a speed kind of issue.
And obviously they had some history with the development projects but speed-wise that's just meeting their needs more.
I mean because obviously you have another set of risks associated with secondary and B class properties different from development risk.
But so it sounds like they're still preferring that.
Okay.
The next question comes from Samit Parikh of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to reference back to something you said earlier the 1 000 leases that are very low rents with upside.
Can you quantify sort of what percentage of your ABR those 1 000 leases represent? Don't have the answer at our fingertips Samit but we can certainly get back to you with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I get one more in then? Absolutely.
Yes.
I think we already get granular on these calls right? Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Glenn just a question for you on the financing.
What's your -- how are you -- are you leaning towards at all sort of calling some of your bonds that are maturing later this year and early next year that -- where you can probably issue a new tenure at -- on a low mid-3s? And looks like you guys don't really have any maturities in the corporate bond area beyond 2019.
I don't see us calling our bonds.
I mean again the make holds and yield maintenance that go with them it's very very expensive.
It's real cash that's got to come out of our pockets.
And if you look at our overall coupons outside of the bond that we issued in 2010 we don't have a coupon that's got more than a 4 or 5 handle on it.
So I think we're going to take it out as they come.
As I mentioned we have $175 million of bonds that mature this year.
We have a lot of activities that we've all talked about in the pipeline in terms of disposition.
We want to let the capital plan come together a little bit more of a -- have a better feel over the next 90 days or so.
And then we'll make determinations about when and if to tap into the U.S.
bond market.
The next question comes from Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll try a multi-part question on Mexico.
In regards to your disposition that you just completed could you share with us if you explore or if you have explored a public exit over all Mexico? What was the cap rate on this transaction that you just completed and -- I'll start with these 2.
Yes a multiple-part question.
Well let me take the second one first.
The cap rate was a 7% 9% on actual 2012 NOI.
So that's one aspect.
As we looked at what's going on in Mexico and as we mentioned on the last quarter the surge of capital market activity and the increasing value of our real estate has generated a number of discussions here.
We did look at maybe joining the crowd in terms of taking our platform public.
But as you know we are not an operator in Mexico.
We are an investor if you will.
We have multiple operating partners.
And so we feel the best execution to the extent that prices stay this high is to sell into these public companies or people that want to become public.
So it's just an excellent window of opportunity for us if the markets continue this strong.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And are your partners potential buyers of your assets? Yes.
The next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to follow up for a second on Mexico.
You've obviously chosen the course for how you want to monetize these assets.
Does this particular buyer that you are selling the 9 assets to is that buyer a potential buyer for more assets? Or was that sort of a group in the portfolio that was picked maybe out of the total of 52 by these guys? They are an active opportunity for other purchases.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay Dave does it -- one of the things I'm curious about.
Does it make it hard to get rid of the entire Mexican investment if you piecemeal it sort of I mean this guy picked 9 interesting projects but that leaves you with maybe 43 I think if my memory serves me.
And then maybe somebody else picks some others.
I mean does it make it hard to get out of everything if you don't just do this sort of maybe more all at once? No.
It's working just fine.
And the level of interest is quite amazing.
And once this deal closes we can give you more color on who the buyer is and who our operating partners are that joined us in the sale here.
So but the answer to your question is no.
We have an opportunity to sell in whole or in part to multiple interested buyers.
I'd like to -- if I could just interject a previous question about how many leases the 1 000 leases over 20 years in age.
It's about 14% of the gross annualized base rents that we disclosed.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
Dave a question on the Latin America asset sales.
You referenced the lack of scale and the expensive tax structure as some of the reasons why you're looking to dispose.
And I guess the question I have is weren't the tax structures known going in? So I guess what changed with respect to your understanding of the tax structures that would have motivated the sale? And the second part is how did the tax structures that you had in Latin America differ from what you have up in Canada? And why isn't that an issue up in Canada? Okay.
First of all Latin America is 2 parts.
South America is what we've referenced in terms of the reason we're going home as we don't have scale and the taxes are tricky and expensive.
And quite frankly the development returns are not as high as originally projected.
So the rents have come down a bit.
The costs to develop have not.
And the taxes are quite significant.
If you take a country like Peru it's about 29% on the actual gross revenues after expenses.
So it makes your return.
So if you thought you were developing towards 13 you're really developing to a 10 or a 9.
And then you take the country risk on top of that and the currency risk and so forth.
So it's just we couldn't ramp up because the risk reward wasn't there.
And we don't have scale.
And so we decided to really focus on other aspects.
Mexico does not have that same level of tax issues.
And it's much more comparable to Canada where we pay very little in terms of tax on current income.
There is a capital gains tax on the way out that's quite substantial in Canada a little less so in Mexico.
But again the returns in Mexico have certainly justified that -- or the after-tax returns have justified the investment in Mexico whereas South America they did not.
The next question comes from Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Michael Bilerman.
Mike so that 15% of those leases 20 years and older what's sort of the mark-to-market then if we were to look at that 15% of NOI and you were to mark them to market how much upside or how much NOI upside would there be? The -- it's a pretty wide range.
But what I'd suggest is if recent history is a guide and I recognize it's 40% of rents and there is going to be -- there are generally renewal options in many of these longer-term leases.
But we would suspect that these larger longer-term deals have anywhere from say 10% to 30% uplift on the existing load and maturing base rent.
That's what we've been experiencing in the last 2 or 3 years as these older lease rates roll off and we put new tenants in there.
So the question for us or the challenge for us isn't so much the uplift.
It's regaining recapturing the space and gaining liquidity.
Sometimes bankruptcies and early terminations paying off the existing tenant to get the new tenant in is one strategy.
Other times it's sitting and waiting.
Other times it's of a particular tenant [indiscernible] wants to downsize because of a strategic change in their business has also an opportunity.
So these are the -- those are the primary drivers or primary things that cause us to capture these below-market rents earlier than their contractual maturity.
Michael just as one small illustration.
We have 100 000-foot lease at probably $2 of rent in Staten Island expires in 2017.
We will get probably $2 million a year on that instead of a couple of hundred thousand.
And there are other illustrations.
And it's with a more dynamic tenant.
Research Division</strong> Quentin and I will make sure we have that in the model.
Put it in.
Put it in.
Count on it.
[Operator Instructions] Since there are no further questions this concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Sue and everyone that participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at kimcorealty.com.
Thanks so much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Bujnicki Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Yusef.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Cohen our Chief Financial Officer; Conor Flynn our Chief Operating Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking statements.
It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
And finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased to report a very strong and eventful second quarter.
In addition to solid financial results we've made excellent progress on many of our long-standing key goals and objectives.
First let me officially welcome and introduce Conor Flynn our Chief Operating Officer.
To those on the call who may not have met Conor over the years Conor has now passed his 10-year anniversary with Kimco in a wide variety of regional operating roles most recently as President of the Western region.
Conor brings to the senior team a wealth of field experience including leasing property management construction asset management redevelopment acquisitions and dispositions.
Conor is a proven manager and leader and we are very happy to have him join us here in New Hyde Park.
Giving up sunny seasonal and exotic San Francisco to relocate to New York shows Conor's dedication and commitment to Kimco.
I encourage everyone who has not met Conor to spend some time with him as opportunities arise at industry events analyst roadshows or property tours.
Glenn will provide financial details for the quarter this morning.
But in general we are very pleased across the board in terms of exceeding our income projections and delivering very strong operating metrics.
Overall our industry maintains its quarter-by-quarter recovery.
Retailers continue to grow their expansion plans and coupled with a 35-year low in new supply effective rents are moving up materially.
Consumer spending and retail sales are also doing well despite the sequester and the beginning of rising interest rates.
The annual ICSC meeting in late May in Las Vegas was very positive with attendance up significantly and a net increase of 100 exhibitors in the convention hall.
Planned new store openings continue at a 5-year high and most retailers remain optimistic about 2013.
In retrospect and with full credit to Glenn our timing on our $350 million 10-year bond was wonderful and we were also very happy with the 7-year $200 million Canadian bond we issued 2 weeks ago.
The new Kimco bonds together with last year's preferred stock offerings and our steady stream of mortgage refinancings have created substantial interest rate savings for years to come.
During the quarter we also achieved several important milestones.
Permit us a small celebratory dance as we note the final closing of the InTown sale which together with a large number of other nonretail property sales results in a current total of nonretail assets of approximately $180 million representing approximately 1.5% of our total assets.
We truly believe that the nonretail aspect of the company is now almost completely behind us and our energies can be totally focused on delivering strong operating metrics and significant improvements in the demographics and profile of our high-quality retail property portfolio.
We're committed to continuing our recycling efforts whereby low-quality secondary market assets will be sold and replaced with high-quality properties in our core primary markets.
Our scorecard to date selling 121 properties since December 2010 totaling approximately $900 million while concurrently adding 66 properties totaling approximately $1.5 billion reflects our commitment to this ongoing program to upgrade our portfolio.
With respect to Latin America we closed on the previously announced sale of Kimco's interest in a portfolio of 9 shopping centers in Mexico for a gross sales price of $274 million.
In addition the pending sale of our industrial portfolio in Mexico to Terrafina for $600 million remains on track with Terrafina shareholders voting to approve the transaction on June 17.
As a final note we also sold our interest in 9 of our 16 South American properties last week to Patio our primary operating partner in Chile for a gross sales price of $50.2 million which includes existing debt of $35 million and a solid gain.
We anticipate the remaining 7 South American assets will be sold by year end 5 of which are currently under agreement.
The second quarter was also noteworthy with respect to the purchase of a number of properties and joint venture equity interests from existing institutional partners.
The previously announced purchase of UBS Wealth Management's equity interest by a new Blackstone/Kimco joint venture was completed based on a gross purchase price of $1.1 billion and a nice accretive cap rate.
During the quarter we also acquired essentially full ownership of 2 large properties Marketplace at Factoria and Canyon Square Plaza from existing joint venture partners for a gross purchase price of $146 million while also increasing our ownership stake in both the Kimco Income REIT KIR and the Kimco Income Fund KIF.
As Milton has noticed -- had noted before our large joint venture portfolio represents a reservoir of opportunities to acquire high-quality properties on a negotiated basis whereby we benefit from having managed and leased the properties for many years and being able to easily assume any existing debt.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details for the quarter to be followed by Conor's in-depth discussion of our U.S.
portfolio results.
And then Milton will as usual bat clean-up with several general observations and trends.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our positive second quarter results are a continuation and testament to the strategy we articulated and have been executing since our 2010 Investor Day.
The quarterly results are highlighted by solid operating metrics the monetization of the nonretail assets and further capital recycling.
We have used the proceeds toward the acquisition of higher-quality assets and joint venture interests.
In addition we continue to reduce our cost of capital and maintain a strong balance sheet with excellent liquidity and access to capital.
Let me provide some detail around the quarter.
As a reminder we continue to use the term FFO as adjusted to represent recurring FFO which excludes transactional income and expense and nonoperating impairments.
Headline FFO represents the official NAREIT definition.
As we reported last night headline FFO and FFO as adjusted came in at $0.35 each per diluted share up from $0.34 for headline FFO last year and $0.31 for FFO as adjusted last year representing a 12.9% increase for FFO as adjusted.
Headline FFO includes impairments of $15 million related to undeveloped land under contract and $15 million of transaction income including marketable security gains.
The drivers of the FFO as adjusted growth are primarily attributable to a $7.7 million increase in NOI at the property operating level and reduced debt and preferred stock cost of $7.6 million compared to last year.
The operating team delivered strong operating metrics.
U.S.
occupancy increased 60 basis points bringing it to 93.9% and combined occupancy reached 93.7% a 40-basis-point increase from last year.
Our U.S.
leasing spreads were 16.7% with new leases coming in at 28% and renewals and options at 13.7% for the quarter.
Our U.S.
same-site NOI growth was 4.2% and combined same-site NOI growth which includes Canada and Latin America was 4% representing the highest levels in the past 6 years.
This solid performance is the result of our continued effort to upgrade the portfolio through our capital recycling program.
Since mid-2010 we have sold 121 properties with an occupancy of 85% and an average base rent of $8.72 and replaced it with 66 assets with an occupancy of 95.7% and an average base rent of $14.28 in our key markets with population levels 20% higher and income levels 30% higher.
We've also benefited from a portfolio that has hundreds of leases that are over 20 years old with below-market rents and an improving economy during a period of minimal new development.
We are focused on the review of each asset and where we perceive significant risk.
We will market those assets using the proceeds for future acquisitions of wholly-owned properties and joint venture interests for properties which we already manage.
With regard to capital recycling we sold 20 shopping center assets of which 9 were in Mexico generating proceeds to the company of approximately $125 million.
We recognized $39 million of non-FFO gains on the sale offset by impairments of $16 million.
Subsequent to quarter end we sold 9 assets in Chile leaving us just 7 assets remaining in South America.
As for the monetization of nonretail assets we are just about done.
With the sale of InTown Suites and other nonretail investments during the second quarter providing proceeds of $177 million and the sale of 2 urban assets and certain nonretail-preferred equity investments after quarter end for an additional proceeds of $40 million the remaining nonretail book value is down to approximately $180 million.
We recognized approximately $36 million of impairments on the sale of the urban office properties.
We are working on the sale of another $100 million of nonretail assets by the end of the year and as Dave mentioned with that the discussion of nonretail will be history.
We have been very proactive on the right side of the balance sheet as well.
In May we tapped the U.S.
bond market raising $350 million at a coupon of 3.125% for 10-year money.
And then in July we executed a $200-million 7-year Canadian-denominated bond at 3.855%.
The proceeds from these issuances were earmarked to repay significantly higher coupon debt including a $100-million bond at 6.125% a $75-million bond at 4.7% an upcoming $100-million bond at 5.19% and mortgage debt with a weighted average of just under 6%.
The Canadian proceeds will be used to repay a 5.18% $200-million bond in August.
These transactions coupled with the significant cost savings generated from the $635 million of perpetual preferred stock redeemed last year and replaced with lower coupon preferreds has provided a portion of the FFO growth.
Our liquidity position remains in excellent shape with over $1.6 billion of immediate liquidity available and less than $150 million of debt maturing for the balance of the year.
We remain committed to our BBB+ Baa1 investment grade ratings and expect to continue to operate with a consolidated net debt to recurring EBITDA level between 5.5x and 6x currently at 5.8x and a fixed charge coverage of at least 2.5x currently 2.9x.
We are pleased to report that based on the strong first half performance we are raising our FFO as adjusted per share guidance to $1.31 to $1.33 from the previous guidance range level of $1.29 to $1.33.
Please remember our guidance does not include transactional income or expense but does include the loss of income from InTown which was quite profitable.
Using the midpoint of $1.32 would represent a 4.8% increase over last year.
The guidance estimate incorporates the sale of InTown as I just mentioned which has a dilutive impact of approximately $5 million per quarter or $0.025 for the balance of 2013 and the benefits of all of our refinancing activity.
In addition we have increased our forecast for same-site NOI growth to a range of 3% to 4% up 50 basis points from the original estimate of 2.5% to 3.5%.
It is worth noting that since 2010 we have successfully grown our FFO as adjusted per share each year as we executed a significant recycling program which has yielded a stronger higher-quality portfolio exited nonretail assets and significantly improved our balance sheet metrics.
And now I'll turn it over to Conor for his inaugural earnings call as COO to discuss the shopping center portfolio.
Thanks Glenn.
I'd like to thank Milton Dave and the Board of Directors for the opportunity and confidence that they have placed in me.
Our second quarter portfolio performance is not only indicative of the solid market fundamentals in our sector but also highlights our successful efforts to improve our portfolio and previews where we are headed in the future.
We have improved the quality of our portfolio by focusing on 3 major initiatives: first actively managing the core portfolio and exiting out of investments that have significant risk; second reinvesting in our high-quality assets as we continue to see double-digit returns through redevelopment efforts that will enhance and reposition our portfolio for long-term stability and growth; and third investing in our core markets that have significant barriers to entry with above-average growth.
U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 4.2% was fueled from leases signed with high-quality retailers.
Also contributing to the growth were healthy contractual rent increases and improved overall credit loss across the portfolio.
The 4.2% same-site NOI growth in the U.S.
is the highest reported since Q3 2007 and is the 13th consecutive quarter of positive same-site growth.
Notable rent commencements include: 2 Walmarts a Target 3 leases with TJX 2 Weis Markets 2 Michaels 5 ULTAs a Kohl's a Bed Bath &amp; Beyond a CVS a Giants a Trader Joe's a Whole Foods and a Nordstrom Rack.
Our leasing and asset management team continues to focus on adding best-in-class retailers who in turn improve the portfolio quality.
We signed 185 new leases for a total of 698 000 gross square feet bringing the overall occupancy levels up 40 basis points higher than 1 year ago for both gross and pro rata share.
In the U.S.
pro rata occupancy increased by 60 basis points from a year ago.
On a U.S.
same-site basis occupancy rose 30 basis points pro rata mainly due to positive absorption.
Second quarter versus first quarter our overall occupancy was up 10 basis points pro rata in gross.
Anchor occupancy was up 20 basis points to 97%.
Small-shop occupancy was up 30 basis points to 84.3% a 100-basis-point increase from the second quarter of 2012 which demonstrates the improving health of our small shops.
However activity in the small shops is still primarily driven by national small-shop operators regional players and franchisees so there is still work to be done and thus opportunity to improve.
Our new leasing spreads of 28% was attributed to positive spreads on every single lease signed above 5 000 square feet.
Other highlights include a new lease at our redevelopment project in Fairview Heights Illinois where we are replacing a 15-year-old Kmart with a 28 000-square-foot Fresh Thyme Farmers Market.
In addition we signed 2 new leases with ULTA and Hobby Lobby signed a new lease this quarter to replace a former Syms in Miami Florida.
Renewals and options leasing spreads posted a 13.7% increase our highest ever which included a 40-year-old Kohl's lease that expired in Salem New Hampshire that was paying $1.47 and renewed at $13 a foot.
Overall leasing spreads in the U.S.
increased 16.7% and have now been positive for 10 straight quarters.
The redevelopment pipeline is my passion project and is now a focal point for future growth.
During the quarter we toured over 100 assets and I'm excited by what I saw and the opportunities that are embedded in our portfolio.
We have added significant projects for the future value creation in every region.
19 projects became active this quarter for a total cost of $30 million and a targeted ROI of over 10%.
Anchors driving these projects include Walmart Bass Pro CVS Burlington Coat LA Fitness PetSmart ULTA and Dollar Tree.
We now have $165 million in active projects $179 million in the planning stage and have identified another $460 million of future redevelopment projects that are now under evaluation.
20 new leases were signed this quarter that were either combining space or splitting boxes for new retailers which make up the lion's share of our new deal costs.
Redevelopments produced a strong return on invested capital in addition to higher residual values that are harder to quantify.
A dynamic new retailer can drive traffic to the asset or increase the frequency of visits and have a trickle-down effect on the surrounding tenants.
A redevelopment creates a more attractive and safer environment that brings down operational expenses as a result of improvements in site lighting waste management solar energy and other technologies that decrease the retailer's total occupancy costs.
We are mining Kimco's large portfolio for opportunities like these small and large.
Our best-in-class operations team allows us to differentiate ourselves from our peers and provides both shoppers and retailers with more tools to be successful.
Our focus on technology sustainability and creativity inspires us to push the envelope and to look at our properties and ask "What more can we do?" We have been working on unlocking new sources of revenue by developing a national ancillary income strategy focusing on revenue-based advertising kiosks and vending programs.
We are looking to expand our solar program and other tenant energy services and build out Wi-Fi networks and web portals that would enhance the tenant and shopper experience.
We are reducing occupancy costs by investing in lighting technology that will cut common area spending.
We are streamlining utility management bill processing and enhancing mobile tools for property managers so they can now snap a photo with their iPad and send it directly from the site to a qualified vendor and quickly receive a bid reducing paperwork and expediting repairs from the field.
These are just a few things we were working on as our scale allows us to be creative with pilot programs when if successful are then expanded nationally.
Dave mentioned our acquisition activity in the second quarter which continues to reflect prudent use of our capital by purchasing partnership interests and assets that we have lived and breathed for a number of years.
On the dispositions front we've sold 11 properties in Q2 for a gross sales price of $71.6 million at an implied cap rate of 7.7%.
We are taking a fresh look at our disposition list and are now taking it a step further and focusing on inherent risk at the property level.
We have had 3 more closings since the end of the quarter with another 16 properties under contract.
Actively managing the portfolio anticipating risk and predicting the shift in demographics and retail nodes will continue to shape the portfolio.
And I will now turn it over to Milton for his closing remarks.
Well thanks Conor.
Our entire management team is excited about their interaction with Conor.
His enthusiasm for retail real estate and his creative energy to enhance value through redevelopments is absolutely contagious.
Conor's passion is redevelop redevelop redevelop and I think it's a great menu.
When a center can be expanded at double-digit returns it is not only a superb use of capital but it increases traffic and enhances the value of the existing center.
We have almost 900 properties that will provide Conor with a wonderful canvas to work with.
Now having said that our portfolio has undergone a dramatic transformation.
When Kimco first started back in 1958 we were acquirers.
The strategy was that whatever we owned would over time substantially increase in value as the country grew suburbs grew inflation grew et cetera et cetera.
So by way of habit we were acquirers and accumulated large portfolios for both public and private companies.
Over the past 3 years we have kicked the habit and our strategy has been much more refined.
We have been selling where we perceive risk and we buy higher-quality properties with growing cash flows.
And we've started to see the benefits of this strategy in our metrics.
I would like to also give you my thoughts on valuations.
When a common stock or any security is bought its multiple depends to a great extent on future growth from the business.
When a property is acquired there is an Argus run for 5 or 10 years and the cap rate depends upon the growth and future rental streams.
And it follows that a portfolio should be similarly valued.
Our portfolio has had 13 straight quarters of increases in same-store growth and so far this year our same-store growth has been outstanding.
And we believe we can continue to deliver strong recurring growth into the foreseeable future and hence an increased valuation.
Now additionally we've always had an opportunistic bed by creating values out of opportunities with retailers with strong real estate referred to as our plus business.
Our plus business has created substantial value and profits that can be reinvested into high-quality shopping centers with recurring income.
In this connection we are pleased with the results of SUPERVALU and confident that the new management will increase the value of almost 8.2 million shares that we acquired in March.
We are excited we are motivated and we are moving forward to our goal of being a world-class retail REIT with growing cash flows and growing dividends.
And now we'd be delighted to answer any questions.
Yusef we're ready for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Glenn can you discuss what your bond issue might have looked like if done today from a pricing standpoint? Can you provide some sort of general comments around the changes you've seen in the financing markets over the last 2 months and whether or not you've seen any impact on private market transaction pricing? I know there's a couple of questions in there.
Sure sure Christie.
Well certainly the one big difference for sure is just look at the base treasury rate.
When we did our bond we issued when the 10-year treasury was 196.
Now you're looking at basically a 260 treasury.
And spreads have definitely widened out a little bit.
I mean our spread on that deal was 125 over.
Today we'd probably be around 140 145.
And if you asked me that 2 weeks ago I probably would tell you it was about 160.
So markets move pretty quickly on that side of the world but it's definitely gotten better and you're seeing more traction.
But rates' all-in coupons are definitely higher.
The Canadian bond is a different -- it's a different market.
It's a smaller market there.
Those are done as private placement deals.
So again we feel pretty good about what we were able to do.
That market is probably around the same where it is today.
So we're probably on a 7-year deal somewhere around 180 over.
As far as it relates to transactions we really haven't seen a drop-off in transactions because of it.
You still have a pretty wide spread between really where 10-year treasuries are and cap rates from a historic basis.
So it really hasn't slowed things down.
The CMBS market is open.
The bank market is open.
The bond market is open.
So for right now it looks pretty healthy to be able to conduct and to transact.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> While I recognize you're never done with the culling of the portfolio I wonder where you think you stand with the recycling of the retail portfolio at this point? Craig -- I mean again it's something that we continue to look at.
Conor and I have -- these 2 months here we've spent a lot of time looking at the list working through it and making further decisions about it.
There's definitely more that we want to sell but the amount of ABR that those assets make up it's pretty -- getting to a level point where it's pretty modest.
The assets are smaller.
But you're going to continue to see us sell assets and you're going to -- I think as you look out 2 3 4 5 years it just becomes part of the fabric of the business.
We are going to continue and analyze where properties in our view have risk.
And if we see a declining NOI in the future where the population growth is going the wrong way you're going to see us market those assets.
It's just a different view and a different look at how we view the portfolio today.
I would agree.
I think that actively managing the portfolio is something that's just become a fabric of our company.
And going forward we're just going to continue to take a look at the shifts in retail nodes the shifts in demographics and continue to analyze each and every site individually and look to see if it's opportunistic to exit.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering -- I've sort of got a sense that we may be shifting into a little bit heavier redevelopment mode as opposed to a buying and selling mode.
But thanks for the feedback.
That's accurate.
I think we're definitely -- you're going to see us shift much more into reinvesting in our properties and taking the funds that we can generate from our dispositions and reinvesting into our existing portfolio and redevelopment pipeline.
Craig we've basically concluded there's 2 wonderful ways to invest capital.
One is in redevelopment where it's so accretive and so incremental to our earnings; and secondly buying out joint venture partners because we're able to achieve better-than-average cap rates on those acquisitions.
Because we're buying partial interest we can assume the debt there's no broker it's negotiated off-market and so forth.
So both of those are wonderful places for us to invest capital on and that's where we've been concentrating.
Our next question comes from Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> David can you just sort of remind us what's left now in Latin America? You said you've sold -- subsequent to the quarter you've sold 9 assets in Chile.
So there's 7 left there and sort of what the value you believe of the -- I guess it's remaining retail assets there are in Mexico as well and sort of what your thought process is in terms of the timing of probably disposing of those assets going forward? Yes.
Well let me take it in 2 pieces.
We're definitely committed to exit in whole in South America.
And of those 7 remaining assets 5 are essentially spoken to.
The 2 in Brazil are still formally on the market and being marketed by Brookfield.
But we think we're close on them.
The biggest asset we have in South America remains our multi-story mall in Viña del Mar and we have a tentative deal on that and that should happen over the next couple of months.
So that will essentially clean up South America.
Mexico the market continues to be wide open in terms of the acquisition appetite by the Fibras or the Mexican REITs both existing Fibras and Friba want-to-bes I guess I would say and we continue to get some nice offers on the remaining properties we have which are roughly depending on how you count maybe 35 shopping centers plus some net lease properties.
Plus we have our Kimco land fund.
We've got a one-off industrial property still that wasn't included in the Terrafina sale.
So we've got some multiple stuff down there.
So we are looking at offers on those.
We have not signed any agreements on those in terms of contracts.
But it remains an intriguing window of opportunity to sell Mexico assets at cap rates quite frankly we didn't think we'd see on an exit.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up to Craig's question.
But as Milton said Conor you have a pretty big canvas to be looking at and I guess just in the U.S.
you have I think about 70 million square feet of retail space and 70% of that is in your top 40 metros.
I know you're focused -- or I guess I'd say you seem focused now more on being better rather than bigger.
And then when you think about 3 to 5 years forward do you expect to see similar metrics for Kimco's portfolio? I mean will they be equivalently sized or equivalently concentrated? Or do you expect to sort of change that mix over the next 3 to 5 years? Yes I think you're going to see us continue look to acquire larger assets that have more meat on the bone is what we like to say or more redevelopment opportunities.
Those -- really when you have the acreage involved in a site that's quite large you have a lot more opportunity to focus on creating value on the property.
I think you'll still see us selling out some of our smaller tertiary markets and looking to invest in high-quality properties in our core markets and with a constant analysis towards value creations.
So I think going forward we may not change in GLA but our site count may change but as a focus of -- toward the lower assets with higher potential for redevelopments.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you're not -- put differently you'd be substantially smaller than being in 40-plus metros? I think that's accurate.
Yes jeff it's Glenn.
I would say we plan to maintain our national presence.
That is something that's very important to us.
So you may see us shrink some of the markets that we're in but the national presence and the diversity and tenant mix that we offer we think is a real differentiator for us.
So we don't expect that to change.
It's all within the context of upgrading the portfolio.
So it's going to be higher and higher quality over time.
Our next question comes from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up actually on that question through the national presence being important to you guys.
What -- can you be specific I guess in describing what you see as the benefits of this large national presence versus -- would be the benefits of being more concentrated into let's say a dozen markets? Cedric it's Milton.
I'm going to take a shot.
It's a good question.
And let me say first from my perspective national diversified portfolio geographically tenant mitigates risk.
In my mind it gives to me a measure of safety from a point of view of what may happen in a particular month.
But most important the national platform helps our business in this sense.
If a retailer wants to -- if a foreign retailer wants to come to the United States interested in non-mall locations what a better place to start than Kimco? And it also is an advantage Cedric to our plus business.
Because when retailers have issues and come and we have -- in the SUPERVALU in the -- all of the Save A Lots we're being compensated and we get opportunities nationally.
So the national platform is in a wonderful advantage in that connection Cedric.
I would just add that on our portfolio reviews with our retailers we're really focused on the regional players that are looking to become national.
Sprouts Farmers Market is a good example where they've started out west and are now growing nationally and we can offer -- and we can show them an opportunity list that is really unmatched by our peers.
And we're the largest landlord for a lot of these tenants as well so that becomes opportunistic when we're going through renewals or looking for opportunities for these retailers.
Our next question comes from Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kimco has been very active buying centers from the joint venture partners.
Can you comment on how big of an opportunity this will be going forward? Well we still manage a combined portfolio of almost $10 billion of which about 60% is held by all kinds of third parties.
We probably have 2 dozen institutional and other partners remaining some of which have indicated an interest to be -- to dispose of their interest.
So we continue to have discussions.
I'd say UBS was particularly large so I don't anticipate -- or we don't anticipate a very large one like that.
But we are due -- in discussions with some of the moderate-sized partners and we hope to bring them to fruition in the near future.
And as I said it's probably next to the redevelopment #2 on what we want to do.
So we're being very proactive in this.
Our next question comes from Brandon Cheatham with SunTrust.
It's Brandon Cheatham.
I also have Ki Bin Kim on the line.
Just was wondering if you guys could comment real quick on -- with the rise in interest rates how that's changed valuations and specifically if you could break out any differentiation between the high-quality assets that you guys are looking to purchase versus the low-quality that you are looking to sell? The first metric that you have to look at is the difference between buying a bond the 10-year treasury and an income-producing piece of real estate.
The major difference is that with inflation at the end of 10 years the purchaser of bond is lucky to have purchasing power of maybe 60%.
In a shopping center you not only have a growing asset but residual values are higher.
And historically while there is a direct connection between cap rates and interest rates there are limits.
There was a time when the prime rate was 21% treasuries were double-digits.
But during that time cap rates did not go above 10%.
So they have been kept in a band that's much narrower than the fluctuation of interest rates.
And you have an addition the benefits on a portion of your cash flow and buying real estate assets tax-free by way of depreciation.
So historically while there is a connection it's not a direct connection.
And I would also add there remains fierce competition for the A -- the prime-quality assets out there.
So the east hills [ph] of the world have seen no real slow down in the competitive bidding for the very high-quality assets in primary markets and those cap rates have definitely continued to be less than 6 for many of those high-quality assets.
Also the general trend towards favorable pricing for even the B assets continues.
There's just more money chasing these B assets because there's been frustration out there that people can't acquire the A assets.
So the cap rates have continued to drift down into the B category.
So as a very general comment I'd say stuff we sold that was clearly B or B- a couple of years ago were in the 9s now they're in the 7s.
So -- and we haven't seen that back up at all.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've had some success over the last year or so.
It seems it's becoming more regular pulling some of these older leases out of the bag with well-below-market rents that you've been able to redo at much higher rents.
And you have made reference to the 1 000 leases in your portfolio that are older than 20 years.
Can you stratify perhaps as we look out over the next few years how many of them potentially are coming due just to give a sense of what type of growth it could provide to the portfolio beyond just the favorable macro momentum? Nate it's a little tough because many of them have options in them.
So it really depends on when they're exercised whether they're exercised or not exercised.
So it's a little bit tough to really pinpoint it specifically.
But we know and as you've seen quarter-after-quarter we get them.
I mean the Kohl's example is a great one.
I mean it's a very old lease at under $2 a foot.
You bring this to market.
So it's a real benefit of the age and size of the portfolio.
Well Nate I'm going to out on a limb and give you one example just to make you feel good.
We have a property in the city of New York.
There's a 100 000-foot tenant who is paying probably a rent that with taxes is almost flat 0 or negative.
And on that 100 000 feet I think we'll go from 0 negative just to $20 a foot in 2017.
That's the one example I can give you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean of those 1 000 how many would you say are coming -- or don't have any renewal options left? I think it's about 500.
So we're running that analysis and we're digging into the expiration schedules to see where the options are.
Some of them have fair market value options or are escalators involved that -- what we can take a deeper dive into.
But it's about 500 of the 1 000.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> If we're thinking about the non-retail asset sales which are wrapping up what you're doing in Mexico and just the non-core U.S.
properties and then kind of match that up against what you're doing with the JV buyouts third-party acquisitions on a look-forward basis does it feel like you're going to be a net acquirer going forward for the balance of the year and say 2014? Well I would say for the balance of the year we're probably going to be a net seller if it all comes out the way we think it will.
Coming into 2014 what we'll -- we'll give you a better feel for it probably on the next call but my guess is you'll probably be a net acquirer somewhat in 2014 but it's going to -- Mike it's going to be about us looking at assets that aren't just based on what that initial cap rate is.
It's really about where we see growth and opportunity in those assets.
You're not going to see us buying large large portfolios of assets that we think have issues with them.
It's really -- we're going to be very very judicious and careful and disciplined about what we're acquiring.
That said I would add besides ramping up the redevelopment which takes capital and proactively trying to buyout partners we continue to have opportunities to buy assets in the marketplace some of which are intriguing to us and some of these we may be able to negotiate off-market.
So I'm a little more optimistic on the acquisition side given our history and our nature.
So I'd say we'll probably be at least even this year.
But we'll see.
Well if you take Conor's passion he's outlined over time $750 million of redevelopments at double-digit yields.
That over time augurs a very healthy increase in our yields and in our flows.
Our next question is a follow-up question with Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Dave I just wanted to ask the question on those -- the low-market leases in a different way.
In your opening remarks you said 35-year low in supply effective rents moving up.
Your trailing 12-month blended spreads in the U.S.
are around 10% which really isn't that far off from the 2005 2006 days.
So given that you've been saying that you don't expect much supply to come on in the next few years do you think blended rent spreads over the next 2 3 years for Kimco should surpass the prior peak? It could well.
I personally continue to be fascinated by this lack of new supply.
Historically on average roughly 100 000 shopping centers out there in the U.S.
there's been a new supply of about 2%.
Today we're at a run rate of 0.1% and it is not expected to increase substantially above that level for several years.
The old days of buying 50 to 100 acres and going through years of entitlements and environmental fights and then pre-leasing and then getting construction financing I -- we just don't see that coming back anytime soon.
So although we're all looking at second phases and some redevelopment it's still not material in terms of substantially increasing the supply of space.
So at -- couple that with a 5-year high of retailers opening up stores.
80 000 new stores are going to open up over the next 2 years so that's really quite amazing demand that we can work with.
So we're optimistic that the industry is healthy.
We're definitely on the recovery track.
We're of course subject to some very high-level macro events because we're all about consumer spending and consumer confidence but that said the fundamental supply versus demand is shifting back in our favor after a very rough 3 or 4 years.
Our next question is also a follow-up question with Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first part is I always find that the same-store NOI and rent spreads don't necessarily translate down to FFO as I guess I would expect.
Can you tell us how much of your portfolio the same-store NOI metric applies to and maybe perhaps in broad strokes how that's calculated for NOI and leasing spreads? Well from a leasing spreads standpoint it's a little tough because it depends on when the rent commences.
So signing a new lease and having it commence is a different time period than what's embedded in your same-site NOI number because the same-site NOI number is a cash basis.
But if you look at our same-site NOI growth it is roughly -- and I don't know I think the same-site NOI was up about $7 million.
We do it -- we have a disclosure which breaks down the dollars so maybe that can help you with your model.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I'll dig into that a little deeper.
And maybe just as a follow-up when you look at leasing spreads and -- I guess this is a question more about whether or not it's possible Glenn is that when you guys do the comparisons for example on the trailing 4 quarters on new leasing spreads in the U.S.
I think the numbers are new rents are 18% and the prior rents are 14%.
Are you able to unearth what the TIs were on the previous deal? And the reason I ask is just because if we amortize in the TIs on the current deal it's about $4 a square foot.
So if you think of it like an economic rent versus the prior rent it would almost appear flat and I think probably a more interesting analysis would be kind of net of TIs.
We haven't done -- we really haven't done that Jeff.
If it's something that could help you we -- I'm sure Dave Bujnicki could go over some of the details with you after the call.
And also if you amortize it over the initial base term yes you can get a little nervous about that.
But most of these have options built in and so a reasonable way to look at that is to amortize those TIs over a much smaller period of time.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Christy McElroy with UBS another follow-up question.
Research Division</strong> Conor just wanted to follow-up on your comments on redevelopment.
It sounds like you've identified about $0.5 billion.
Milton mentioned $0.75 billion about -- of redevelopment projects potentially.
How does that -- sorry if you've mentioned this but how does that break out in terms of what you're expecting for annual redevelopment spend? And in your opening remarks you also mentioned some things that sound like -- more like renovation CapEx.
So if you could just sort of talk about what you expect to spend in terms of redevelopment spend and then renovation CapEx? And can you also remind me in your same-store NOI growth does that include or exclude the impact of redevelopment? It includes it.
I'll start with the last question.
And just going through the redevelopment pipeline the projects that were added which Mr.
Cooper referenced earlier is that we're looking at every single asset and it can range inside the projects.
So the specifics of the ones that became active this quarter it's an LA Fitness being built in Staten Island it's a Burlington Coat being built in Florida it's a relocation and an expansion for ULTA Cosmetics it's developing a PetSmart in Puerto Rico it's downsizing a Best Buy and then adding an ULTA it's splitting boxes it's also adding outparcels in California and redeveloping and adding significant GLA on a few other properties.
So the range of scope of what you're looking for in a redevelopment project can vary greatly.
And I think on the timing side of it it can be very lumpy.
There's -- if you've ever done a rehab project even in your own house you know how the timing of it can be very hard to pinpoint.
But on our analysis of active projects we tend to think that those will be at -- that we are spending money on currently that those flows will hit in the 1- to 3-year period.
And then the ones that are in the planning phase will hit in the 3- to 5-year period.
And then the future ones will be 5 to 10 out.
So that gives you a little bit of a perspective of the timing of it.
I think it's also fair to use Milton's wonderful word "reservoir of opportunities " when you look at our very large portfolio of shopping centers that Conor has taken a hard relook at and has found many more redevelopment prospects than perhaps we've found before.
So you've seen a rededicated reenergized look at this stuff and it's yielding results.
Research Division</strong> So if I think about it in general terms just sort of annual starts and annual spend I know it can be lumpy but over the next few years? Christy it's Glenn.
You probably should expect us to spend somewhere between $100 million and $150 million a year.
And again depending on how -- to Conor's point it gets a little lumpy.
If it's a bigger project we might spend more.
But I think that's at least a target range to start with.
Our next and last question comes from Brandon Cheatham with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Ki Bin.
Just a couple of quick cleanup questions.
One what is your small-shop occupancy? What was it at the peak on an apples-to-apples basis? And I...
Well the small-shop occupancy we started only tracking it maybe 4 5 years ago.
We think at its peak it was right around 90% so that was its peak.
Today we're sitting at around what 84.3%? So we feel that there's definitely more upside to come there.
That's correct.
I mean I think you're starting to see the small shop health really improve.
Even if you look at our spreads on just the small shops over 60% of them were positive which is a very very unique factor for us because it's been flat to negative in the past.
So we're starting to see that health metric improve.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we can model this -- as I model this -- low-single digit positive? So most of the positive leasing spreads were on the 10 000 square feet and greater space? Is that right? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a last question.
You guys have gone through a lot of capital recycling and it seems like you probably have more pull-through to reinvest.
How do you -- so how does that impact your acquisition parameters? And should we expect that you guys are going to buy more higher-quality somewhat stabilized assets? Or would you actually be willing to take on more of these at-risk or you can add value on acquisitions? We do intend to be very disciplined.
Just because we have some more money coming in we're not going to be particularly aggressive.
We're disciplined.
We do look for properties that have a very high quality; and b growth embedded in the asset.
And we are looking as best we can for off-market opportunities where we leverage relationships of Milton's or others to get those kinds of deals.
And again we refer you back to the opening where our first place to put capital is into our own properties where we can get wonderfully accretive incremental yields.
Secondly buying out partners where the cap rates are generally above market.
And then third looking for these selective opportunities where there's good growth and very high quality.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Yusef.
And we appreciate everybody that participated on our call today.
As a final reminder our supplemental is posted on our website at kimcorealty.com.
Thank you very much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Kimco's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Laura.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; Conor Flynn Chief Operating Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors risks and other uncertainties.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Finally during the Q&amp;A portion of the call we request that you respect the limit of one question so all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
With that I turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thanks for calling in this morning.
We are happy to report another strong quarter of financial results and progress on our key goals and objectives.
Glenn and Conor will provide the details but in general our operating metrics are excellent and reflect the continued strength of the neighborhood and community shopping center industry.
Leasing activity continues to be robust with increasing rent and excellent leasing spreads.
National retailers remain committed to significant expansion plans and almost all geographic areas are reporting improving trends and very little new construction activity.
Coupled with population increases and positive if not strong GDP growth we expect our key metrics and recurring rental revenues to remain solid as we enter 2014.
As an interesting and encouraging data point shopping center industry NOI growth has reached a post recession high according to a database maintained by the NCREIF the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries.
It is clear that the fundamentals of our business continue to look very positive.
With respect to our results for the quarter we are making great progress on our major objectives.
In Latin America we have now sold over the past 2 quarters 24 shopping centers and 84 industrial buildings aggregating a gross sales price of well over $1.06 billion.
We also expect to sell our remaining 7 properties in South America by year-end and we're actively negotiating the sale of 27 additional shopping centers in Mexico.
While many of these sales involve multiple joint venture arrangements we believe we will have largely completed the sale of most of our remaining Mexico assets by early next year.
Our Canadian portfolio remains a strong and important contributor to our earnings.
Portfolio occupancy continues to be very high and many U.S.-based retailers are continuing to expand into Canada with Target and Marshalls leading the charge.
Property prices are at exceedingly high levels with pension funds and REITs both chasing a limited supply of high quality properties.
In the U.S.
with our nonretail portfolio at $120 million today and on track to be both less than $100 million and less than 1% of our total assets by year-end please permit us to turn the page and concentrate on our recycling efforts which entail investing in our retail redevelopment pipeline and selective acquisitions of high-quality retail properties in the U.S.
and Canada.
This has become our top priority now and we are pleased with our success on both fronts.
Looking at our U.S.
shopping center portfolio.
Conor has done an outstanding job together with our regional presidents of identifying and growing our portfolio of redevelopment projects.
And this activity will be a very important contributor to our earnings in future years.
As Conor will detail in most cases we can achieve double-digit returns on the incremental capital invested while also creating a higher quality more valuable property overall.
Retailers are increasingly willing to pay higher rents as part of a property redevelopment and renovation plan and this both increases our projected returns and also makes more redevelopment projects financially viable.
In general we believe that both our redevelopment projects and our joint venture partner buyout activities such as the recent UBS and KIF acquisitions represent the most attractive and accretive use of capital for us.
On the acquisition front purchases of high quality shopping centers in primary markets are becoming more difficult as cap rates continue to decline for the best properties.
That said we are very excited about winning the recently announced large Boston portfolio due to its growth and redevelopment potential and its large presence in the supply-constrained New England market.
Conor will provide more details on this portfolio and why we are so pleased to be adding these properties to our Northeastern region.
As a final comment we're continuing to sell our nonstrategic U.S.
retail properties in a disciplined and methodical process.
Conor and the regional presidents screen each of our properties for long-term risks such as tenant sales demographic trends tenant credit et cetera as well as markets with lower long-term growth prospects.
We have now sold 133 retail properties since late 2010 comprising almost 14 million square feet.
This represents a major change in the profile of our portfolio in terms of both quality and markets.
Over time we are determined to continue to enhance our truly great national portfolio of high-quality retail assets in key markets with terrific long-term growth prospects.
Now I would like to turn to Conor and Glenn to be followed by Milton with his general observations and strengths.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our solid third quarter results are highlighted by the excellent performance of our core operating portfolio delivering positive same-site NOI growth for the 14th consecutive quarter positive leasing spreads and increased occupancy levels.
In addition we have been very active on the capital recycling front with the accelerated monetization of our Latin America assets and redeploying the proceeds to acquire high-quality U.S.
shopping center assets in our key markets with demographics and household income levels greater than the national average.
Now to some specifics about the quarterly results.
As we reported last night FFO is adjusted which represents our recurring FFO and excludes transactional income and expense in nonoperating impairments was $0.33 for the quarter as compared to $0.31 last year a 6.5% increase.
The key drivers of the growth rate $10 million increase in NOI produced by the operating portfolio and reduced preferred stock cost of $7 million offset by the lower nonretail income of $10 million primarily attributable to the sale of In Town Suites and other non-retail investments during that period.
FFO is adjusted for the 9-months is $1 per diluted share.
And based on our year-to-date results we are tightening our FFO as adjusted per share guidance range to $1.32 to $1.33 from the previous range of $1.31 to $1.33.
Headline FFO which represents the official [indiscernible] definition came in at $0.34 per diluted share as compared to $0.29 last year.
Current quarter headline FFO includes transaction income of $15 million from the profit participation on the disposition of a portfolio of nonretail preferred equity investments offset by a $7 million net of tax non-cash equity loss recognized from the additional Albertsons investment made earlier this year.
We remain positive on the initial trends and future potential upside from the Albertsons transaction.
The Shopping Center portfolio metrics of occupancy leasing spreads and same-site NOI growth continue to produce positive results.
Total occupancy has increased to 94% up 60 basis points from the year-ago and 20 basis points from the beginning of the year.
Separately U.S.
occupancy has increased to 94.4% up 50 basis points from the beginning of the year.
U.S.
leasing spreads are up 7.3% with new leases at 13.7% and renewals and options at 8.4%.
Our combined same-site NOI growth was 2.3% for the quarter including the negative impact from currency of 20 basis points and a negative impact of 20 basis points from adding a large development property in Mexico.
Combined same-site NOI growth for the 9 months is 3.4% and we maintain our combined same-site NOI guidance range of 3% to 4%.
In addition we have added a new page in our supplemental package providing further detail about the makeup of same-site NOI we hope you find it helpful.
With regard to capital recycling we had a very active quarter selling 8 U.S.
properties providing $53.3 million in proceeds and the sale of 5 retail assets in Mexico 9 retail assets in Chile and an 84-property industrial portfolio in Mexico providing aggregate additional proceeds of approximately $260 million.
We recorded non-FFO after-tax gains of $81.6 million and impairments of $14.3 million from all these sales and additional U.S.
assets under contract.
Also we recorded non-FFO impairment charges of $76.7 million related to 14 Mexican shopping centers which are part of a pool of 27 assets we are negotiating to sell.
We expect significant gains on the other 13 properties which will be recognized upon close.
The gains and impairments from our Latin America transactions are all before the impact of currency which has been influenced by the current strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Under U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles not until a company has substantially liquidated its investment in a foreign country can the impact of foreign currency translation be recorded in earnings.
As of September 30 the unrealized loss due to currency associated with our Mexico and South America assets was $113 million and remains in the balance sheet account of accumulated other comprehensive income.
The final impact of currency will apply to the respective gains and losses on the sale of these operated properties and thus will not impact FFO at the time it is recognized.
Proceeds from the sale transactions were used to acquire 4 shopping center properties in our key markets for $67 million with a balance earmarked to the Boston portfolio and other U.S.
assets already under contract totaling over $575 million.
We continue to maintain our focus on the right side of the balance sheet as well taking advantage of the continuing low interest rate environment to lower our own cost of capital.
To that end we issued a $200 million Canadian-denominated 7-year unsecured bond and a coupon of 3.855% and we paid a maturing 5.18% bond of the same amount providing an annual savings of $2.6 million.
Our liquidity position is in excellent shape with over $1.6 billion available on our revolving credit facility and our net debt to recurring EBITDA is now at 5.4x which is just under our target range of 5.5x to 6x.
As we look forward to 2014 our debt maturities are very manageable.
Our next bond maturities don't occur until June of 2014 and we have already repaid $50 million of mortgage maturities due in 2014 subsequent to quarter end.
As we look forward to 2014 we're introducing an initial 2014 FFO as adjusted guidance range of $1.36 to $1.40 per share.
Please keep in mind that we have not completed our full property-by-property forecast process.
The guidance range is based solely on recurring flows and does not include transaction income or expenses which will be included in NOI FFO.
As such we will provide more specific guidance assumptions on our next call including same-site NOI growth expectations and occupancy targets which we expect will continue to be positive.
Our forecast includes recurring retail flows reaching close to $1 billion and de minimus recurring nonretail flows of $2 million.
In addition the guidance range takes into account the dilutive effect of the Latin America and nonstrategic dispositions as well as the reduced nonretail flows.
Using the midpoint of the 2014 guidance range of $1.38 we yield an increase in recurring FFO per share of about 4%.
The ranges depend upon timing of our continued capital recycling activities including the monetization of our Latin America assets asset acquisitions lease up and redevelopments coming online.
Lastly but of most importance we are pleased to announce that based on our 2013 performance and expectations for 2014 our Board of Directors has approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend of 0.015 per common share to $0.225 an increase of 7.1% on an annualized basis.
Our FFO as adjusted payout ratio remain conservative at about 65% among the lowest in our peer group.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our Investor Day on December 12 in New York.
And with that I'll turn it over to Conor.
Thanks very much Glenn.
Our third quarter performance continues to evidence the consistent strength of the battle-tested Kimco portfolio even during unsettling economic times and highlights the safety of our recurring FFO due to our industry-leading tenant and geographic diversity.
Our goal is to make Kimco a pure play North American retail real estate investment company that can provide best-in-class margin of safety and produce consistent and increasing dividends with above-average same-site NOI growth through leasing redevelopment and accretive acquisitions.
I wanted to provide updates on the 3 major strategic initiatives I mentioned on our last call.
All of which are aimed at upgrading our core U.S.
portfolio.
First we continue to actively scour the portfolio for sale opportunities.
Since June 30 we have completed the sale of 12 U.S.
centers for an aggregate gross sales price of $205.9 million at an average implied cap rate of 7.6%.
Year-to-date we have executed on the sale of 25 properties for an aggregate gross sales price of $287.9 million with an average implied cap rate of 7.9%.
We have an additional 14 properties currently under contract.
We believe that the extended low interest rate environment and the strong demand for cash flowing assets makes for an optimal time to pare down our portfolio in a meaningful way.
We have identified an additional 60 assets that we are now moving to our disposition list and targeting for sale in 2014.
We have identified these assets as low growth or average properties and are below Kimco's average demographics and major metrics.
We see opportunity to continue to reshape redevelop and rethink the future of Kimco.
The second update relates to our $800 million redevelopment initiative.
Reinvesting in our high quality assets through redevelopment is critical to our future growth in achieving a higher net asset value.
This quarter the Cupertino California redevelopment passed the last appeal hearing and is now active in garnering significant leasing activity.
The existing 114 000 square foot grocery-anchored center will be getting a full makeover and will be adding 25 000 square feet of new retail a parking garage and a phase 2 pad site which is being held for future upsides with interests from hotel operators pharmacies and financial users.
The newly remodeled asset will share a new signalized intersection with the future 2.8 million square foot Apple 2 headquarters that will house 12 000 employees.
In addition the anchor redevelopment of our Richmond Avenue site on Staten Island is now complete.
And Target who was on a ground lease opened their door this month to significant fan fair.
The grand opening was a big success and video of the event could be found on our award-winning website and blog at kimcoreality.com.
The Richmond Avenue redevelopment still has 2 outparcels under construction for Bank of America and Miller's Ale House and we'll complete the redevelopment and produce incremental NOI totaling close to $2 million for an ROI of 42%.
If we ascribe a cap rate of 6% this project will create over $28 million of additional net asset value.
The Richmond Avenue project is just 1 of 5 former Kmart locations that are now in different stages of redevelopment.
New anchors for these projects include Target Whole Foods TJX Ross Burlington Coat and Sports Authority.
We currently have 41 active leases with Kmart and Sears and 2 that expire in 2017 with no remaining options located in Los Angeles and Staten Island creating a nice reservoir of future redevelopment opportunities.
Since last quarter we have moved $42 million of redevelopment projects from the planning stage into the active category.
The active redevelopment pipeline currently consists of gross cost of $214 million incremental NOI projected at $21.1 million with a blended ROI of 10.2%.
The $800 million redevelopment pipeline includes $320 million of projects in the planning stage and an additional $275 million of products under evaluation.
The third update relates to our initiative to focus new investments in our core markets that are significant barriers to entry with above average growth.
This quarter 3 out of 4 acquisitions were made through off-market transactions taking advantage of our deep relationships with owners brokers and retailers to source accretive deals in this highly competitive environment.
I would also like to mention the recent Boston portfolio that is now under contract.
We believe this portfolio has significant upside with below-market leases redevelopment potential and includes a few urban locations surrounded by the campuses of Harvard MIT and Boston College that could potentially add significant density.
Our leasing and development team are clearly energized by the unique opportunity.
As for our metrics I am happy to report the following results.
Our U.S.
same-site NOI growth was 2.7% about 80% of that growth was driven by new releases with rent commencement dates that occurred over the prior quarter.
Also contributing to the growth were healthy contractual rent increases the 2.7% same-site NOI growth is the 14th consecutive quarter of positive same-site growth and excluding redevelopment our U.S.
same-site NOI will be 3.1%.
As Glenn mentioned we have added a detailed breakdown of our same-site NOI to give a clear picture of our portfolio.
Leasing volume continues to be strong and we have signed 183 new leases in the U.S.
for a total of over 900 000 gross square feet driving our overall occupancy levels of 40 basis points growth and 60 basis points pro rata over occupancy in Q3 2012.
U.S.
occupancy alone increased 100 basis points pro rata over the same quarter last year.
On the U.S.
same-site basis occupancy grew 70 basis points pro rata year-over-year mainly due to positive net absorption.
Quarter over last quarter overall occupancy was up 30 basis points pro rata and 20 basis points gross.
Anchor occupancy increased 40 basis points to 97.4% small shop occupancy was up 40 basis points to 84.7% an 80 basis points increase from third quarter of 2012.
The increase in small shop occupancy continues to be driven by positive net absorption from the disposition of riskier assets.
Our small shop space percentage of total GLA at 24% is amongst the lowest in the industry.
Given that demand for large boxes is very strong and occupancies are high for this space across our sector Kimco is benefiting from this trend through higher rents for a larger portion of our portfolio.
Our combined leasing spreads have now been positive for 9 consecutive quarters.
Third quarter leasing spreads were at healthy 13.7% mainly driven by our junior anchor deals however both midsize shops or those between 5 000 and 10 000 square feet; and small shops those under 5 000 square feet reported positive pro rata spreads as well.
Additionally we continue to see the advantage of old leases in our portfolio coming to the end of their term.
A former Firestone Tires lease from 1973 paying only $3.21 in Savannah Georgia was replaced with a Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry at a rent of $25 a foot.
Renewals and options additionally posted a positive spread of 4.8% driven mainly by an old under-market write-in [ph] lease from 1983 paying $30 a foot in Bridge Hampton New York and renewing at $47 a foot with no tenant improvement allowance or landlord work.
This past quarter we have spent a large amount of time in the field touring over 100 assets and I am excited by the creative and collaborative approach of our team which is what makes Kimco so special.
It's proven that our recycling efforts have driven -- have been meaningful to date and the improved quality of the portfolio has reinforced the pride and ownership among all of our employees.
We are now close to 50% of our NOI coming from the following 10 metro areas: 12% from the New York-New Jersey-Long Island area; 5% each from Los Angeles Miami and Philadelphia; 4% each from DC and Baltimore; 3% each from San Francisco Phoenix San Juan and Chicago; and our average base rent is now $12.92 up 11.2% from our last Investor Day in 2010.
While we are pleased with our overall progress we still have work to do and we will continue to reshape Kimco portfolio and constantly work towards becoming the best in our industry.
And now I'll turn it over to Milton for his final remarks.
Well thanks Conor.
Conor's passion and enthusiasm for our business is contagious to all of us.
I'm pleased with our overall progress.
Our focus continues to be on quality core markets and simplification.
We're trading from Mexico to Massachusetts.
The upgrading of our portfolio is in full swing.
We have sold over $1 billion of shopping centers since our last Investor Day in 2010.
Our investments in SUPERVALU and Albertsons continue to proceed according to plan and we expect that there will be very substantial creation of value.
And we also continue to execute on our plan to simplify since the beginning of 2012.
The number of properties held by joint ventures has been decreased by 133.
The GLA in the joint venture decreased by 19.5 million square feet and our gross investment value in real estate joint ventures has decreased by $1.7 billion.
Finally I can never say enough about the quality and depth of our team.
I believe it's a key differentiator for us.
Our 4 U.S.
regional presidents manage portfolios so large they can each be independent REITS.
Their industry reach and experience is second to none.
Collectively they have 111 years of experience in the industry and 47 years with Kimco.
They are working on our portfolio increasing value and delivering results.
It's a very very exciting time for Kimco.
And now we'd be delighted to take any questions.
Laura we're ready to move on to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will be from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you just go through some strategic rationale in terms of I can understand Latin America in terms of exiting and simplifying as investors can have their own choice to invest in that market through listed players.
As much I love Canada being a Canadian couldn't you make the same argument about Canada and just becoming a U.S.
pure play and sort of how you think about that dynamic? You could certainly make that case Michael.
But we have such a wonderful portfolio up there that's driven very strong earnings and we believe there's upside in the portfolio as it stands today that the market up there is so strong and the rents are going to grow even further than they are today.
I mean our occupancy there I think has never been lower than 96% and it's been a very strong contributor of earnings.
And quite frankly the sale in Canada would trigger taxes that are much more meaningful than the taxes we have in Latin America.
So there is a tax consideration long-term.
We also have wonderful public company operating partners up there such as Riocan and Plazacorp and both of them are wonderful partners and have created enormous value over time above what we've bought.
So we consider Canada those assets very high quality.
Most analysts give us very high marks for our Canadian portfolio.
We see continued upside up there.
And many of our U.S.
tenants are also there.
So whether it's Target and Walmart and Home Depot and others we share a common platform with them for Canada.
So you're right in terms of your thesis but I think for now we consider it part of our very high-quality international portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And then this decision to completely exit Mexico because we've heard over the years Dave the same thing about look there's U.S.
tenants and it's U.S.-based leases with U.S.
dollar-denominated leases for a lot of the anchors.
I guess why then now completely deciding to exit Latin America then? I would say twofold.
One is despite our passion for the long-term prognosis of Mexico and what's going to happen there we were really never able to convince the investor and analyst community of that.
And our assets there were valued at a discount.
And our multiple I think suffered a bit in terms of our -- in Mexico.
And then we got hit with everything from drug violence to the Great Recession which took some of the big loss off of Mexico.
Secondly it's a wonderful time to exit.
The capital markets after many years of being very silent in Mexico have exploded.
And in terms of the valuation of assets and we have great assets down there in terms of the number of companies that are either public or want to go public they're trying to aggregate assets.
So we think the timing is good in terms of selling and disposing of the assets.
And since we were able never to make a compelling and convincing case even though we still are strong believers long-term in the prospects for Mexico.
I don't want anybody to think that this means that we don't think Mexico is a wonderful country with wonderful long-term growth prospects.
It's just that for us as a public company we never really got credit for being there.
And it's a good time to go home.
And the next question will come from Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to that.
Can you talk about the net proceeds you expect to realize in total from the executed as well as pending sales in Latin America and what assumptions you've made in your guidance for next year for the timing and maybe yield on reinvestment of those proceeds beyond just the New England purchase you've announced? Sure Jeff.
In total you'll probably see around $900 million in total.
You've seen what we've already produced so far.
And proceeds will be used to really buy U.S.
shopping center assets.
So you have things like the Boston portfolio plus many other assets that are currently under contract that total about $575 million.
And redevelopment I think the redevelopment pipeline is a target for us to really reinvest and it's a great use of our capital at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to clarify.
Were those net proceeds you're saying or is that the -- that's the gross figure you expect to realize in the...
Those will be our net proceeds.
That would be our share.
Our share.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's right.
And then those reinvestment opportunities do you think they're are more front-ended in 2014? Well I think you have about $260 million that will close in the fourth quarter of this year and then probably about another $300 million -- $350 million that will close in the beginning first quarter of next year.
And our next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Because my question is on the Boston portfolio I wonder if Conor you could characterize when you can start to capture some of those below market rents when they rollover and then how soon you can start pursuing redevelopment projects on that portfolio as well? Yes.
No problem.
We actually are pretty excited about the lease rollover in that portfolio.
It's got above average growth.
When we were underwriting the portfolio and touring the properties we were pretty excited about the repositioning opportunities.
There's a few significantly below-market grocery stores as well as office-supply users that are coming up to the end of their lease term and we believe that we can either reposition the asset with a best-in-class grocer at a significant market rent increases.
In addition we see that the small shops have been relatively flat versus markets.
So we think that there's upside in the small shops as well.
It's a highly occupied portfolio so it is going to be over the next 5 to 10 years when leases mature that we'll see that growth.
But it's a play for us to really see long-term value creation.
And that goes for the redevelopments as well.
There's a few larger projects that we think are achievable because of significant density that could be added to our urban properties in that portfolio.
But then there's also smaller redevelopment potential that outparcels to a number of properties.
So it's a little bit of everything in the property portfolio that we're excited and can't wait to dive into.
And the next question is from Andrew Schaffer of Sandler O'Neill.
It's good to see the continued progress in selling out of Mexico and Latin America.
But looking at the $190 million of combined losses potentially taken I was wondering what controls have been put in place for you to kind of avoid future non-core investments as you put the $400 million of cash towards -- that's currently on the balance sheet.
Well you have our commitment to maintain the strategy we have in terms of focusing on core retail in the U.S.
and in Canada.
Honestly we actually made a lot of money in the nonretail assets as well.
I mean it is not all a bad news story there.
But we recognize that as a company with a 50-year history and expertise in retail that's where we want to be going forward.
And over time we want to emphasize our key markets in the U.S.
where we have scale and relationships long standing.
We want to emphasize larger scale properties which can unlock opportunities to redevelop and expand those properties.
We're going to become a little more urban than suburban because that's where the jobs are going the population growth that's where the retailers are more productive and that's where they want to pay higher rents.
So we do have a strategy that we're committed to long term.
And that's where we're going.
And the other thing that I would add is when you look at what will remain subject to currency translation it's really all -- would all be in Canada.
And in Canada we are naturally hedged because we have issued all Canadian-denominated bonds that match our equity portion.
So that risk is gone.
And we did that somewhat in Mexico.
We have MXN 1 billion unsecured facility that is a minor hedge of what's there but that's what was used.
And the next question is from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering when you look at your U.S.
portfolio of 700 and some odd assets and you look at your activity over the last few years of -- from a disposition front how much of the portfolio do you consider kind of non-core? If you could snap your fingers today and sell a portion what percentage of the portfolio would that entail? Today it's less than 10%.
And we're really focused on growing into the larger assets the core markets so we have broken up our portfolio to see where the juice is where the growth is.
And we have over 550 assets that we deem as really strong long-term core assets with above-average growth.
So the lion share the portfolio is of today is what we determine as core.
That said we did add another 60 assets that I mentioned to our disposition pipeline.
And we're going to continue to be an active portfolio manager.
I think that's now become really going forward a big change for Kimco.
And once we move through this next 60 it will probably be less transactional volume.
But still -- we'll still be actively managing the portfolio looking to see where the retail nodes have shifted where the demographics have shifted and where we perceive a risk and can exit out of properties that we think may have negative growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are there any themes sort of vintage of the properties you've been selling or are they just kind of property that have been acquired throughout time and there's no real rhyme or reason to any chunk of those? It's been a very detailed process.
We've gone back through each region and talked about tertiary markets where we have to either don't have scale in a certain market where we only may have 1 asset or 2 assets in a certain market and we see that the growth isn't up to Kimco's standards.
Again if the retailers that are anchoring that property are not producing high sales we consider that a risk and think that it's time potentially to exit those properties.
We also look at the trade areas.
We want to see where the growth is coming from in demographics.
So it's been a very detailed approach.
And so each time we go through the disposition pipeline we also take a look at the existing portfolio to see should we consider adding more or should be consider taking away more.
And our next question is from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious on the Boston portfolio it sounded like you're saying you had some street retail in there to in addition to what you characterize as urban.
And I'm just curious whether you do or you don't I would of course like to hear that but what do think of the street retail concept.
It's obviously gotten very hot here recently and is that something you guys are looking at or would consider looking at going forward? It is hard to describe if it's street retail because it's -- it is urban because it's located in the Boston metro area but it does has have its own parking fields.
Really the 2 most urban properties would be the Trader Joe's that's really has its own parking field as well as the Whole Foods next to Boston College which also have its own parking field.
So we typically like to have control over the parking fields so it enables us to create larger redevelopment potential.
Street retail I think is very limited in terms of your opportunities to create value long-term.
It's really more of just a releasing effort on street retail.
So we enjoy having urban properties but that have critical mass that'll allow us to create value over time.
And the next question is from David Wigginton of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Just following up on the earlier Canada question.
I wanted to get a sense of how you view the high and continually I guess rising Canadian household debt levels in the context of your strategy for the market.
And I guess do you think the embedded growth you mentioned is potentially at risk as a result of that? Well the Canadian economy is actually holding up quite well.
And does not have some of the long-term issues that the U.S.
has particularly in the real estate area.
It's under retailed by metrics that you would look at for the U.S.
that has about half the retail per capita that the U.S.
has.
It's very difficult to build in Canada at the end of the day.
And so for the future we see continued demand exceeding supply up there.
And we continue to see Canada as an attractive expansion market for U.S.
retailers.
You're seeing a whole slew of retailers go to Canada and have a wonderful expansion opportunity Nordstrom among others going up there recently.
So we're excited about where Canada is going.
We're excited about our own portfolio which is very high quality and if you're ever in the area we'd be happy to take you for a tour.
They're good long-term properties.
There've been great performers.
We were very fortunate to buy them at a time when cap rates were very high and the currency was weak.
So we have some very large embedded gains in our Canadian portfolio and it's producing very strong earnings very strong FFO for us.
And that growth should continue.
Inc</strong> How does the tenant base there compare to sort of your U.S.
tenant base? They're similar properties.
These are largely open-air properties.
We do have some enclosed properties but they're largely open-air both grocery-anchored and big-box centers spread across as you know Canada has 6 major cities and they're primarily located in these 6 areas.
But it is a national portfolio.
And as I mentioned we've got some very wonderful operating partners that are very good at what they do.
And our next question is from Brandon Cheatham of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the capital recycling plans for the net proceeds you expect to get from Mexican assets.
Just on the acquisition front given where cap rates have come over the last 3 or 4 months are there any markets where you're hesitant to enter into and kind of how do you expect to add value with those proceeds? We look very hard at acquisition opportunities.
And I think Conor hit it on the head when he said our first preference is off market and negotiated opportunities that had come from long-standing relationships and the size of our company we do have -- we do look at an awful lot of things.
And then we screen these opportunities on a couple of factors: One whether these are markets that we're already in and we like the long-term demographics and trends of those markets.
And then we look at the properties themselves whether we believe that there's great embedded growth of the NOI.
And whether there's redevelopment possibilities and other things that can really drive some earnings for those properties.
So we know it's a good time to be careful.
And we are trying to be careful in underwriting in depth these opportunities.
But we do see a lot and we're fairly confident that we can redeploy that capital into high quality properties with some upside.
The other advantage we do have is the regional framework that we've set up.
So we have all these people on the ground in their particular regions who are scouring and talking to brokers private property owners and the like and that's when we've been able to source many of the deals both on a -- whether it be broker or a private negotiated stand [ph].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess overall uses of those proceeds -- expectations haven't changed.
Right.
We do believe we can redeploy this capital at good long-term NOI growth patterns.
Plus the redevelopment pipeline.
And next we have question from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think you touched on this a little bit earlier with specific transactions slated to close later this year.
But if we're thinking about 2014 as a whole and thinking in terms of your pro rata share of say acquisitions and dispositions do you think you're a net acquirer in 2014 or do you think it's a wash or do you think you're still a net seller? Michael I think you're going to see us be a net acquirer by somewhere in the $150 million range when we put it all together.
Net acquirer in the U.S.
Yes net acquirer in the U.S.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> In the U.S.
-- what about overall though if we're thinking about that? Overall as well.
We're going to take the proceeds from the Latin America sales as well as the sales from the U.S.
assets we're selling and redeploy them primarily into the U.S.
assets that we've already earmarked.
And free cash flow.
Yes.
And next we have a question from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little more philosophically about your investment management program and I'm wondering if you think just as though the market never really gave you full credit for the Latin America investment do think that the market doesn't fully recognize the benefits of the investment management program? And I know you've already been reducing some of that exposure.
But is it reasonable to assume that over the next couple of years particularly as you have -- a number of those relationships where the debt is maturing that you're going to step into 100% ownership and continue to take full ownership and simplify from that perspective? Yes.
I'll take them one at a time.
Yes I do believe the market doesn't give you full credit and does give you a bit of a discount depending on the amount and the magnitude of the joint venture.
I think you've got some of the highest quality companies in the REIT world that do have specific joint ventures.
In our case we have awful lot of them.
We have over 2 dozen institutional partners in various forms and we have all sorts of programmatic joint ventures and commingled funds and we recognize that perhaps we have much too many of them and you have seen us reduce that number and you will continue to see us reduce the number of joint ventures and partners over time and we think that's a good thing.
That doesn't mean we think joint ventures are bad joint ventures can lead to opportunities and certainly has helped us in terms of incremental earnings from fees and from notes and things like that.
Secondly there is that intangible that we have found and discovered that certain partners want out at certain times.
And we are able to take advantage of that and get what we believe is a discount with them owning a partial interest and saving on brokerage fees and assumption costs and things like that.
So we're able to take advantage of that.
And UBS is an excellent example.
Because our cost to buy back a bigger share of that portfolio cap rate was over 7%.
And those assets would trade we think as 100% owned assets a 6% or even lower than a 6% so there was value created through the acquisition of that portfolio.
So those opportunities we continue to look for and we're proactive about finding those.
And we've done a good job I think finding those opportunities.
So over time philosophically you'll see us have less joint ventures and we believe that will help in terms of the multiple and so forth.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of dollars I mean we're talking here I mean there's over $10 billion of assets at play of which you've got in some cases 15% stakes in or 33% staked in.
I mean are we going to be talking over the next couple of years here of $5 billion plus of what would effectively be acquisitions from that built-in pipeline? No.
No.
In the first place out of that 10 Kimco probably owns more than 40% of that 10 to start with on average.
And you have the debt obviously to boot.
So to start with our average ownership being 40% you take out the debt and so forth.
And we do have partners that we value very highly such as GE Pension and Prudential which have made it clear that they are long-term holders they're not interested in buying out.
And some of the larger ones that have expressed an interest such as UBS and several years ago DRA we have consummated those transactions.
So the future opportunities I think are going to be smaller but we're working at that.
And again I think one of the goals is to take those 2 dozen institutional investors down to perhaps 5 or 6 for a longer time period.
And the next question is from Samit Parikh of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Hate to keep asking about the transactional activity next year and how it relates to your guidance.
But just to clarify so if you said $900 million of net proceeds and $150 million of a net acquire you're probably acquiring a little bit of $1 billion here.
But given the lower cap rates on the acquisitions it's probably a net push on the transactional activity relating to NOI.
Can you sort of go over the other drivers that get you to the guidance range to next year.
Internally what you're thinking since you have to deal with dilution of the hotel portfolio completely coming off and other dispositions earlier this year? Right.
So Samit we're going through our final review of all of our properties.
But embedded in there will be redevelopments that come online contractual rent funds [ph].
Interest cost savings from the refinancing that we've done as well as bringing these acquisitions on at a particular time.
So we think when we put it all together we're comfortable with this initial guidance range that we put out.
But as I mentioned we will give you more detail on our next call when we have finalized the review of our 800 properties.
And I would just add historically we haven't had the large dilution you might have expected when you take into account that we have sold nonretail assets that were not producing income such as our large urban portfolio in Philadelphia and others.
So as we sold those assets we got cash in that wasn't earning for us.
Secondly as we've wound down our preferred equity portfolio we've been fortunate including this quarter to get large profit participations which is real cash which can be used to buy new properties and offsets that dilution.
And then the third over the last couple of years the home run investment in Albertsons produced quite a bit of distributions to us that was real cash.
And that goes into the kitty as well.
And then we have our free cash flow of $100 million or so a year.
So you put all that in the blender and you don't quite have the dilution you might think about on paper when you're selling at 8-ish and buying at 6-ish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify the last question that the 136 to 140 range next year that include probably some promotional income activity from some of these sales? No.
There's no transaction income or expense in those numbers.
This is purely coming from the operating portfolio and the management of G&amp;A costs and interest costs.
My point was we've gotten cash that we have now used to invest [indiscernible] income producing assets.
And our next question is from Nate Isbee of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave just going back to that discussion about unwinding some of your joint ventures.
You are marketing a small portfolio here in the mid-Atlantic that seems to be what I would call real high-quality core assets they are joint ventures.
And is that property-specific issues? Are -- is that the pricing disagreement with the seller and are -- as much as it's been an opportunity for you in past is it getting harder to come to an agreement with some of your joint venture partners? No.
I think -- the specific ones you were right.
You're referring to our -- is a situation where we've agreed with a partner.
It's probably best just to put them on the market.
There was a bid asked on several of them and there was an asset that we didn't want to buy.
So it's -- we agreed to put those on the market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean it's not like you did the DRA you did the UBS and as you get farther in this process you're trying to get more detail? No.
In some cases you have a partner that does want to go home but you can't quite agree on price.
And so those properties are market.
But at the end of the day you have one less venture and one less institutional partner.
And I think part of it is you'll get some nice price discoveries out of this too.
And you'll see that these things are going to trade at a very low cap rate.
And our next question is from Chris Lucas of Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David just a basic question about the transaction environment which is could you just give us some color as to how cap rates have trended over the last 6 months and what the opportunity set has looked like in terms of the change in volume of deals available? I would make 3 points in general and then open it up to others.
The very high quality properties continue to be very competitive.
If anything cap rates continue to go down notwithstanding the [indiscernible] rise in interest rates.
Ever since May there's been no fall off [indiscernible] Competitive nature for [indiscernible] quality properties.
Secondly in terms of the B properties within [indiscernible] perhaps markets there has been pick up in [indiscernible] unable to buy the A properties and the yields are a little higher [indiscernible] very positive leverage available.
And as more debt [indiscernible] for B properties so see the assets that we've been selling good assets call it 8.5 average down to 7.5 average or so cap rate [indiscernible] down on the B assets [indiscernible] Third point I wanted to make is I think beginning in May with a prospect [indiscernible] sellers think maybe the train's starting to leave the station though I think a few more properties are coming to market [indiscernible] in the market as people try to make sure that they catch these high prices.
But I think they'll see the number of assets in the market continue to go up [indiscernible] that lead for [indiscernible] opportunities that said the demand side remains high the pension funds [indiscernible] life insurance companies sovereigns the REITs and so forth real estate is back in favor.
[indiscernible] assets whether it's cash yield [indiscernible] costs still at historic lows.
The NOI is down.
Cap [indiscernible] still seems reasonable compared to [indiscernible].
I think you're going to see a good dynamic [indiscernible] in both for buyer or seller.
We have our next question from Luke McCarthy of Deutsche Bank.
I know you just talked a little bit about in your early comments that I guess in general across the board at least domestically things are very strong geographically.
Can you just talk about where you're seeing relative softness and is that where we should expect you to focus your dispositions.
And then secondly given what you just said about cap rates and that potentially making things I guess a little bit more challenging on a deal-by-deal basis as an acquirer can you talk a little bit about the sustainable level of redevelopment we should expect from you guys as you kind of recycle that capital moving forward? Sure.
Why don't I start with the first part? We see the highest growth recently in the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic from a same-site NOI growth perspective and that's really why we're so excited about the recent Boston portfolio.
It's because we've got a track record.
We've got boots on the ground.
We've got a Boston office and we've always wanted to expand that portfolio.
It's just been very hard to find accretive acquisitions in that territory.
So that area I think is one for us that we've earmarked as a very high growth potential and we see it consistently quarter over quarter producing significant results.
The next portion of the question on where we're targeting dispositions? It's really going through each and every region.
The regions are very large.
So it's hard to give you a specific territory that we're exiting.
But in general what we're doing is we're focusing on the core MSAs that are healthy that are growing and we're looking to see okay where are those assets located better? No longer in the growing markets that we see as potential downside risk and then exiting those markets.
So you'll see us exit out of areas where we think there's a tertiary market or if our retail sales have started to either flatten out or go negative and we'll continue to prune the portfolio in that regard.
I would just add one comment on the redevelopment side.
As we've mentioned earlier as rents start to jump and they are jumping.
They're not going up 2% or 3% they're going up $1 $2 $3 more redevelopments become financially feasible or viable.
And that's what's triggering a lot of this.
Redevelopments that didn't make sense 2 or 3 years ago now makes sense because the retailers are hungrier they're willing to pay higher rents.
And so we are optimistic if that trend line continues you will unlock other redevelopment in our portfolio with 900 properties.
We have a lot of inventory and when rents get to the right level and the demands gets there it triggers even more redevelopment opportunities for us.
And the next question is from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Glenn yes there's been a lot of numbers thrown out on all the transaction activity.
I'm just wondering if you can just be a little bit specific in what you disclosed in the press release in terms of what's been sort of announced the $230 million of sales the $270 million that's under contract in Boston call it $400 million of Mexico and Lat Am.
Conor talked about 60 assets that are part of the disposition plan.
You also talked about $610 million of acquisitions of which I assume $270 million is Boston.
Maybe you can just be very specific in terms of what is your net share of acquisitions and dispositions in the fourth quarter and how much is embedded for next year? Because obviously that plays into sort of where numbers will shake out.
And then just secondarily what top down assumption have you used for same-store in coming up with the forecast of 136 to 140? So first let me just clarify the $900 million of proceeds from Mexico.
$400 million of that will be in 2013 of which over $325 million of it is already closed.
So the balance will come -- $500 million or so will come in 2014.
As I mentioned also we will close on about another $260 million of acquisitions in 2013 during this quarter.
There's another $350 million of properties that are under contract including the Boston portfolio.
But net-net when you look to 2014 we're looking at somewhere in total around $800 million of acquisitions of which we've already identified $350 million of it.
So that's there -- and as far as a same-site NOI growth level as I mentioned we're going to give you that at the next call because I want to finish doing it and we want to give you a very good accurate number.
But I am very confident that it will be positive and remains positive.
Research Division</strong> So from a transaction activity then if you're -- you have $500 million left to go either later this year or into next but then from an acquisition perspective you have $1.1 billion that's left to close.
Am I not thinking about that the right way? I'm trying to think from the...
In total yes.
In total you're right.
We're going to close $260 million this year and around $800 million next year.
Research Division</strong> And you are only getting in $500 million...
Of which more than half is already identified.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you're only getting in $500 million in net cash.
So you're going to be spending $600 million...
No we also have about $300 million or so of retail assets that are part of the 60 assets we announced that we would be selling that's going to come in as well.
Research Division</strong> So in addition to the $500 million...
But we still have a little bit left of the nonretail.
A few nonretail assets that we expect to close some before year end.
We have free cash flow so we have other sources of cash.
And we have some more closings of sales in the fourth quarter as well.
So you'll get to the net-net Michael of roughly a $100 million of a net buyer when you're all said and done $150 million of a net buyer.
Research Division</strong> From this point from basically fourth quarter through '14 $100 million of net which is easily funded through free cash flow.
Correct.
And our next question is another follow-up from Samit Parikh from ISI.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could comment on the economic situation in Puerto Rico and what your thoughts are on if that could have an impact on sort of midterm maybe next 3 to 5 years consumer demand and what impact that could have on sort of your exposure out there? Well I'll give you just high-level to start with I mean Puerto Rico has been in an official economic recession for almost 5 years now.
And notwithstanding that because the island is so under retailed and because culturally the Puerto Ricans just love to shop our retailers have done well.
Our shopping centers have done well.
And the rent growth is real there.
And the list of retailers that want to open up in Puerto Rico notwithstanding the economy and the fiscal situation of Puerto Rico.
The tax proposals that would have meaningful -- meaningfully impacted both landlords and tenants have been muted and taken back off the table recently.
So that dark cloud seems to be not as dark as it was.
So I think longer term we're very happy with what we have in Puerto Rico.
And we feel good that retailers will continue to do well.
And occupancy will continue to be high.
And it will be a good contributor to earnings.
Research Division</strong> Do think that there's any [indiscernible] increased income taxes and maybe sort of crackdown on the -- taxing some of the underground economy over there and what that could do to disposable income? Again some of the more Draconian proposals have been tabled.
So that was what the niche group were afraid of whether they're successful cracking down of [indiscernible] that's very difficult to do [indiscernible] Mexico or other places.
And I think embedded in the culture of Puerto Rico [indiscernible] love to shop and the tenant [indiscernible] as well.
So yes it's certainly something we watch and we monitor and we participate in the industry lobbying efforts to make sure that the movement [ph] doesn't hurt us too bad.
But I don't think there's anything meaningful that [indiscernible] there that [indiscernible] to be fair.
And this does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Laura and to everyone that participated on our call today.
As a reminder Kimco will be hosting an Investor Day on December 12 in New York city.
Details for this event are available on our website at kimcorealty.com.
We look forward to seeing you there.
Finally additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental that is also posted on our website.
Have a good day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Andrew.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are: Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; and Conor Flynn Chief Operating Officer.
There are also other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
[Operator Instructions] And with that I turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for calling in this morning.
We are happy to report strong first quarter results.
As usual Glenn and Conor will provide the details.
But overall our operating metrics continue to be excellent led by 153 new leases with an average positive leasing spread of 50.7% calculated on the comparable new leases.
Our terrific leasing spreads combined with another substantial jump in small shop occupancy provides solid evidence of the continued improvement and strength embedded in our core portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers.
Looking at the U.S.
shopping center industry overall consumers are spending again with March consumer spending posting the largest gain in almost 5 years.
Consumer sentiment as recorded by University of Michigan also rose in April to 9-month high.
Combined with historically low new retail construction U.S.
population growth is now outpacing the net addition of retail space by 3.5x.
And a 5-year high of new planned store openings effective rents are increasing significantly.
It is also interesting to note that services now represent slightly more than 2/3 of all consumer spending off from less than 50% in the 1960s and '70s.
This is significant for the neighborhood and community shopping center sector as our properties are all about essential local goods and services.
Telephones dry cleaners restaurants hair salons urgent care centers et cetera are all resistant to the inroads of e-commerce.
In addition 94% of all retail sales still take place in the brick-and-mortar world.
And there's an increasing list of online retailers beginning to establish physical stores.
Even Amazon has opened short-term pop-up stores and has mentioned the possibility of opening traditional retail and showroom stores if they can be differentiated.
With respect to Kimco's key goals and objectives for the year we continue to make excellent progress with our disposition activities in Latin America.
With the Macquarie Mexican REIT closing in the first quarter we have now received approximately $500 million in net sale of proceeds from Latin America over the past year.
We continue to be on track to sell essentially all of our properties by year end with signed letters of intent or contracts on almost all assets.
In the U.S.
as Conor will detail and as highlighted in our earnings release our recycling and portfolio upgrading initiatives continue at a solid pace with Kimco acquiring high-quality retail properties from both market sellers and our existing joint venture partners.
Most recently we have reached agreement with BIG an Israeli public company and existing joint venture partner to essentially divide 21 mutually owned shopping centers into 3 groups a Kimco-owned portfolio 7 shopping centers comprising 1.2 million square feet a BIG-owned portfolio of 8 shopping centers comprising approximately the same square footage and 6 assets which will continued to be owned jointly.
This arrangement together with the LaSalle and KIF acquisitions recently announced continues our efforts to simplify our portfolio and reduce the absolute number of joint ventures and properties held in joint ventures.
Quarter-by-quarter the profile of our shopping center properties is significantly improving in terms of demographics average rents NOI growth and primary markets.
Since late 2010 we have sold over 16 million square feet of property and we continue to actively identify and market additional noncore and secondary retail properties.
Coupled with our high-quality property acquisitions such as the Boston portfolio and the 2 large properties in North Carolina purchased in the first quarter we believe we are continuing to create a superior property portfolio with excellent NOI and redevelopment prospects.
Looking quickly at Canada.
Our Canadian portfolio remains a strong and important contributor to our earnings despite the recent adverse impact of currency.
Kimco's Canadian properties remain well occupied approximately 96% and our RioCan partners have identified several significant redevelopment opportunities which we are evaluating together.
And now I would like to turn to Glenn to discuss the financial details of the quarter to be followed by Conor's discussion on our portfolio results.
And then Milton will as usual provide some high-level observations.
Thanks David and good morning.
2014 is off to an excellent start as evidenced by our solid first quarter results.
We are actively executing on our themes from our December Investor Day transforming our portfolio with high-quality acquisitions and disposing of slower-growth assets from nonstrategic markets simplifying our business model with the reduction of joint ventures and a continued exit from Latin America while also ramping up our redevelopment pipeline.
We remain focused on keeping the balance sheet strong and opportunistically accessing the capital markets and reducing our overall cost of capital.
As we reported last night headline FFO and FFO as adjusted each came in at $0.34 per diluted share up from $0.33 for headline FFO last year and $0.32 for FFO as adjusted last year in line with our expectations.
The increase is primarily attributable to strong NOI growth generated from the operating portfolio.
Also as I've mentioned in the past G&amp;A is impacted in the first quarter for our annual noncash equity comp award issuances.
In addition we incurred $2 million of severance costs.
The increase in G&amp;A on a sequential basis was offset by 2 lease terminations included in income from discontinued operations.
Headline FFO includes $4.2 million of transaction income generated from a promote earned on the disposition of a preferred equity position and fees earned from the early repayment of a mortgage receivable.
Headline FFO also includes $6.6 million of transaction expenses related to acquisition costs severance related to the wind-down of our Latin America operations and a noncash equity loss from our additional Albertsons investment made last year.
We remain very excited about the prospects of the Albertsons investment as the Albertsons operating team has been executing on its business plan and consistently beating revenue projections.
Our Kimco operating team kicked off the year with solid results delivering combined same-site NOI growth of 2.5% before the negative impact of currency of 100 basis points.
Same-site NOI growth for the U.S.
portfolio was 2% in line with our first quarter internal forecast.
The same-site NOI growth is fueled primarily by top line revenue growth generated from increased occupancy which stands at 94.5% for the combined portfolio up 90 basis points from a year ago and continued strong leasing spreads.
Although occupancy for the U.S.
portfolio was modestly lower by 20 basis points from year end the result of the usual after-holiday season fallouts U.S.
occupancy now stands at 94.7% up 100 basis points from a year ago.
We continue to execute on the quality upgrade of our portfolio and are planning to accelerate the dispositions of slow-growth assets not located in our key territories.
During the first quarter we sold interest in 11 U.S.
properties and have 40 U.S.
assets either under contract or under price negotiations.
In addition we are preparing another 60 assets to bring to the market.
As a result we are increasing our disposition target by $300 million to a total of $1 billion to $1.2 billion for 2014 including the Latin America dispositions.
South of the border we completed the sale of a 9-property portfolio in Mexico for a gross sales price of $222 million with net proceeds to us of $110 million after repayment of debt.
We are actively negotiating agreements for the sale of substantially all the remaining assets in Latin America with the expectation to complete the sales by the end of 2014 further simplifying our business model.
As Conor will elaborate on shortly we continue to make significant progress on our efforts to unwind JVs and selectively acquire choice assets.
Turning to the balance sheet and liquidity funds.
During the quarter we renewed our $1.75 billion revolving credit facility reducing the spread of LIBOR from 105 basis points to 92.5 basis points and reduced the facility fee from 20 basis points to 15 basis points.
The new facility which has a final maturity in March 2019 will provide immediate liquidity at a reduced cost saving approximately $1 million annually.
Also subsequent to quarter end we issued a $500 million 7-year bond at a coupon of 3.2% one of our lowest coupons ever.
Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay $295 million of bonds that mature in June at a weighted average rate of 5.2% $98 million of maturing mortgage debt at an average rate of 6.14% and the balance to [indiscernible] pay down outstanding balances on our revolving credit facility.
With this bond issuance we have addressed more debt maturities since 2014.
Our debt metrics remains solid with net debt to recurring EBITDA of 5.5x and fixed charge coverage of 2.9x.
And our liquidity position is in excellent shape with over $1.6 billion of immediate liquidity.
We are pleased to be able to reaffirm our 2014 guidance range of FFO as adjusted per share of $1.36 to $1.40 despite the expected dilution from the anticipated acceleration of dispositions.
Our guidance range also takes into account the expected savings from the refinancings previously mentioned.
In addition our previous guidance of same-site NOI growth of 2.5% to 3.5% remains unchanged.
As we move later into the year we will have a better picture of the impact of our accelerated disposition program on 2015 earnings and property metrics.
And now I'll turn it over to Conor.
Good morning everyone.
Today I will begin by outlining our progress on acquisitions and dispositions and then cover the progress on our redevelopments.
Finally I will recap the leasing and operations activity for the quarter.
We continue to simplify the business model by acquiring JV interests and most recently announced that we acquired the remaining 60.9% interest in the high-quality KIF portfolio.
These assets are predominantly grocery-anchored with strong sales located in our key markets.
The 12 properties totaling 1.5 million square feet for a gross price of $408 million translates to a blended implied cap rate of 5.9%.
However when considering the KIF promote we received the effective cap rate is 6.4%.
It's also worth noting that 9 out of the 12 assets are unencumbered.
2 of the 12 assets do not meet our quality and growth criteria and will be sold individually as we continue to stick to our knitting of transforming and simplifying.
In the first quarter we acquired 5 high-quality shopping centers totaling 900 000 square feet amounting to a gross purchase price of $216 million including $113 million of mortgage debt at an implied cap rate of 6.1%.
These include the acquisition of 3 grocery-anchored properties from the LaSalle joint venture where we purchased the remaining 89% interest.
The 3 properties totaling 316 000 square feet are located in the Greater Baltimore area and have an occupancy level of 97.6% at an average base rent of $19.49 a foot.
Included in this package is York Road Plaza a Giant-anchored shopping center doing over $800 of per foot sales.
In one-off transactions we acquired 2 large well-positioned properties in North Carolina.
Crossroads Plaza is the dominant power center located in the affluent and highly educated Research Triangle of Cary.
The approximately 490 000 square foot site is anchored by Ross HomeGoods Marshalls Stein Mart Michaels Best Buy PETCO Old Navy and ULTA.
Combined with our adjacent properties we now own over 900 000 square feet at this dominant intersection.
With the acquisition of Crossroads Kimco now has 9 shopping centers comprising 2 million square feet in the Raleigh MSA which is ranked as 1 of the fastest-growing MSAs by Forbes.
Quail Corners located in Charlotte is a 110 000 square foot Harris Teeter-anchored shopping center.
Quail Corners' surrounding area boasts an average household income of over $100 000.
And the acquisition offers an additional value creation opportunity with a fully entitled undeveloped outparcel.
Turning to dispositions.
As mentioned in our recent press release Kimco sold ownership interest in 11 U.S.
properties during the first quarter including 7 wholly-owned and 4 unconsolidated properties held in joint ventures for a gross sales price of $63.7 million including $14 million of mortgage debt and a blended implied cap rate of 9.1%.
Our share of the proceeds was $42.1 million.
Subsequently after the quarter 4 additional assets were sold for $18.5 million with $11.3 million in Kimco proceeds.
One of the properties that were sold include a few stay alive [ph] assets the demographics and long-term growth profile were not commensurate with our future portfolio goals.
As we outlined at our Investor Day in December a key driver of our strategy is a more aggressive approach to selling low-growth and noncore assets and reinvesting in our key territories focusing on above-average growth and redevelopment potential.
We are accelerating the company's planned level of dispositions.
Currently we are negotiating contracts for sale of 40 U.S.
properties for a gross sales price of approximately $344 million and we are planning to market an additional 60 properties for sale.
Redevelopments continue to enhance the portfolio in numerous ways.
And 2014 will be a big year for Kimco as we look to add projects to the pipeline in addition to completing and activating numerous projects this year.
In the first quarter alone we completed $24 million in redevelopment projects providing an incremental yield of 10.4%.
Tri-City Plaza located in the Tampa MSA is one of the larger redevelopment projects to become active this quarter.
The $31 million redevelopment is undergoing a massive repositioning where we will be demolishing 90% of the square footage and creating a vibrant new offering that includes new buildings for LA Fitness Sports Authority Ross as well as numerous restaurants.
This exciting makeover will add over $2.8 million of incremental NOI.
We are cautiously optimistic that the demand from best-in-class retailers will continue to fuel growth at our top performing assets and increase future redevelopment opportunities.
Currently our redevelopment pipeline totals $792 million including $260 million of active redevelopment projects $278 million under design review and $254 million in the evaluation phase.
This report is fluid and projects take time to ramp up.
Still I am encouraged by our progress over the past year and believe we can continue to deliver projects that will improve Kimco's net asset value while providing a strong incremental return to our shareholders.
Moving on to leasing metrics.
U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 2% was fueled primarily by rent commencements that added $5.2 million in base rent and an improved overall credit loss across the portfolio.
The effective snow removal cost impacted our recoveries by a negative 40 basis points.
Redevelopments contributed 5 basis points to same-site NOI.
We expect same-site NOI to strengthen during the remainder of the year as numerous redevelopments come online previously executed leases begin to start paying rent and renewals and options are executed at positive rates a trend that's continued for 15 straight quarters.
In the U.S.
we signed 153 new leases for a total of 777 000 square feet.
Overall occupancy while remaining flat in 94.5% quarter-over-quarter reverses a 4-year trend of a postholiday dip.
Drilling down pro rata U.S.
occupancy increased 100 basis points year-over-year down 20 basis points from prior quarter due to anticipated fallout from a few anchor spaces.
Anchor occupancy dipped 30 basis points pro rata versus prior quarter.
Small shop occupancy increased 40 basis points to 85.6% compared to prior quarter.
Year-over-year it is up 160 basis points.
This quarter small shop occupancy increase is an encouraging sign and was primarily driven by positive net absorption.
Activity in the small shops comes predominantly from national small shop operators regional players and franchisees.
But we are starting to see numerous hair and nail salons as well as other local service units come back into our centers.
An area that showed strong positive net absorption in our small shop space was medical use such as physician offices and urgent care facilities.
In total we have 14 new medical deals which accounted for over 46 000 square feet paying an average base rent of $21.62 a foot.
Medical service use along with restaurants and personal care services increase the strength of our small shop population.
They're Internet-resistant and drive traffic to the center on a recurring basis.
A notable new international retailer we welcomed to our portfolio this quarter in California is Aki-Home part of the 300-store Japanese Nitori furniture group.
Our outstanding new leases of 50% was driven by across-the-board double-digit positive spreads on junior anchors mid-sized shops and small shops.
Some highlights include the recapture of an expired pad ground lease was paying less than $1 a foot and we execute a new lease with the National Optometry at nearly $30 a foot at Evergreen Square.
Other highlights include new leases with TJ Maxx HomeGoods Sports Authority PetSmart CVS and Shoe Carnival all paying significantly higher rents than the previous tenants.
The average base rent of new deals was $16.50 a foot which illustrates the mark-to-market growth we have embedded in our portfolio that will continue to create future upside for Kimco shareholders.
Renewals and option leasing spreads posted a 4.6% pro rata increase.
And overall leasing spread in the U.S.
increased 8.8% and have now been positive for 13 straight quarters.
Overall we continue to improve the portfolio by consistently executing on our three-pronged strategy of transformation simplification and redevelopment.
Further proof of the strengthening of the portfolio is the steady increase in average base rent per square foot.
We reported a pro rata ABR this quarter of $13.18 a foot a $0.19 increase quarter-over-quarter and a $0.52 increase year-over-year evidence that transformation is taking shape as we work tirelessly to unlock the value for our shareholders.
And with that I will turn it over to Milton.
So thank you Conor.
As you've heard we are executing on our plan to transform simplify and redevelop.
First our portfolio transformation is in full swing most recent example is the acquisition of the Boston portfolio which closed on April 30.
The performance of this portfolio already exceeds our underwritten expectations and we will create greater value than we projected.
Now let's take a look at what we achieved so far.
Since September 2010 we have acquired 123 U.S.
retail properties comprising 14.4 million square feet for a gross purchase price of $2.8 billion.
These properties have on a pro rata basis an average occupancy that is over 10% higher than the 158 properties we sold.
The average annual base rent per square foot is over 63% higher than the ABR for our dispositions.
Demographics are impressive and average household income for the acquired sites is 40% higher and the estimated population is almost 20% higher than the disposed sites.
Second we made very meaningful progress on simplifying our business by reducing the amount of joint ventures.
In the second quarter of 2011 we had 552 properties in JVs.
That number is now 387 a 30% decrease.
This represents a reduction of more than $3.7 billion of gross investment value in joint ventures.
And when you look at the amount of real estate value we have purchased from our JVs it's comparable to buying very large and high-quality portfolios.
But we are able to buy these properties with less risk less underwriting and lower transaction costs than any external portfolio acquisition.
Third we are excited about redevelopment potential.
The pipeline is increasing and the projects are perfectly aligned with our transformation to a higher-quality portfolio.
We are stimulated by Conor's passion and zeal for value creation and we can't wait for these projects to come online.
On the plus business we're happy with the progress made at Albertsons and SUPERVALU.
And we are excited to be a part of the Safeway consortium.
The transformation simplification and redevelopment strategy is no small feat with a portfolio of our size.
And I would like to express my gratitude to Dave Glenn Conor as well as all the Kimco associates throughout the company who are working so hard to achieve our goals.
And now we are happy to take any questions.
Andrew we're ready to move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the BIG joint venture what prompted the split-off of properties? And why not just dissolve the JV? Why can't you either own the 6 centers within that entity? And then can you sort of comment just on how you're actively working with other JV partners to formulate an exit? Sure.
The second part is easy.
Yes we are working with other joint venture partners the ones that would like to co-own in form or fashion.
We're trying to work with them especially the ones that have high-quality properties we're very interested in buying those properties.
Others that have secondary assets we've convinced them to put them on the market sell them to third parties.
So we are actively as Milton mentioned trying to unwind a lot of these joint ventures.
Not to say that these are not great partners and that we haven't built a very good business and created value with them.
It's just that at the end of the day we had too many too many partners too many ventures and we're unwinding them.
And also as Milton mentioned it's a great source of acquisitions for us.
We could generally buy these at an effective cap rate higher than on the market either using our promote as currency or avoiding the transaction costs assumption fees brokerage costs and things like that.
So it's very good economics.
That's a good place for us to put capital.
With respect to BIG they've been a very good partner.
They're building their own platform in the U.S..
They have other joint ventures.
This was an opportunity to basically go through the portfolio and divide it into 3 piles.
The first pile separates some of the better long-term assets into a BIG-owned portfolio and a Kimco-owned portfolio.
And we negotiated the division of those assets.
The 6 we're remaining together have other issues that we'll resolve together maybe there's leasing or redevelopment to go through it or debt issues or other reasons that they're going to stay as they are for a period of time.
Research Division</strong> Are these dispositions candidates longer-term? The 6? Yes.
The next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wonder are we looking at a possible shift in the pickup in ground-up development in the strip category? And I know you're pursuing active redevelopments.
But are you also thinking about ground-up developments? Overall rents still haven't recovered to the levels necessary to justify a ground-up development.
You may see occasional ground-up development in places like Texas or Florida where you have grocers that are particularly anxious to expand their footprint and are willing to pay very high rents.
But as we've mentioned before the old days of buying 100 acres of land and going through years of entitlement projects with all the preleasing that's necessary to do that just isn't on the horizon anytime soon because the economics aren't there developers do not want to take the small leasing risk that's involved in these transactions.
And the retailers themselves don't have the patience to wait for years to get new stores.
They're committed to opening up in their expansion plan in the near future.
So they'd rather pay a couple of dollars more a foot to get immediate access to an existing store.
All of which is good for us landlords because as we've tried to say during this call rents are beginning to jump.
They're not just going up 1% or 2%.
Coming out of the recession now rents are beginning to jump.
And eventually it will lead to new construction.
But for now we have the benefit of a very constrained supply.
Retail per capita in the U.S.
is going down for the first time because of population growth is exceeding the new supply of retail.
So all of that bodes well for us.
The next question comes from Paul Morgan of MLV.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe if you could provide a little bit more color about your investment in the Safeway transaction.
From Kimco's perspective what is the opportunity there? And how would you compare or contrast that with Albertsons and SUPERVALU not exactly the same situations and then whether you see some of the shopping centers falling out to you from that? Well I would say -- I'll take the last part first regarding shopping centers falling out for us.
I think what's going to happen is really when the deal does close -- we had so many shareholder approvals and antitrust approval.
But the deal is closed.
And day 1 is going to be an operations turnaround play to merge 2 companies with 2 300 stores [indiscernible] on that.
But like the transactions that we just closed in 2013 and in 2006 where you see we have an operating team in place especially for the retail operations.
And from that add value to the real estate.
Right now the real estate is kind of being used -- not kind of being used as a financing vehicle for the acquisition.
But in time we're going to work with our partners and use real estate to add value to the transaction.
If you could just please be aware it's in an approval process now so we're a little bit limited on how much we can say.
We will tell you that the 5 brands we bought from SUPERVALU last year the early indications are terrific.
The comp sales are good and the improvements are very good.
So we feel very good about what we bought and we feel very optimistic about the Safeway transaction when it closes.
The next question comes from Tammi Fique from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could discuss the cap rate spread between expected dispositions and acquisitions for the year and then maybe your use of proceeds from the incremental disposition capital.
Yes no problem.
I think the deal -- first quarter is probably a little bit of an indicator that we're going to be ramping up our dispositions and now we think that overall throughout the year we'll probably average out to about an 8% cap for our disposition portfolio.
We do have a number of different portfolios in the market today.
Some of them are in the market as a package but can also be bid on individually.
The asset type ranges from really power center to grocery-anchored center to triple net leases.
So we have been really going asset by asset and taking a deep dive throughout the portfolio to see where we can unlock value where we can lease up vacancy and keeping that in the parent and we think there's downside or risk or very little growth in that if we had put that on the market.
So we think that overall the cap rates will probably even out to about an 8% from year end.
Yes.
When you blend it with the Latin America sales that we're doing you're probably looking at somewhere around a 225 basis point spread between acquisitions and dispositions in total when you put it together.
So the more encouraging thing is the disposition activity that the window is still wide open.
If anything cap rates are falling faster on some of the B properties and secondary assets that you would have expected.
So it's encouraging to us that there's good activity and we're doing the best we can to take advantage of it so that 200 basis point spread that Conor mentioned is probably drifting down to what's a 150 basis spread based on current indications.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the use of the proceeds from the incremental disposition capital? Well again in terms of our overall capital plan again we -- you see the amount of acquisitions that have gone on so between acquisitions and redevelopment pipeline that's how we're fueling our funding requirements.
So that's what's going to go.
For the moment it's a form of recycling.
Clearly there's no excess either way for the moment.
The next question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could walk through the composition of the renewal spreads kind of mid-4% range.
If you were to understand you're typically getting some fixed bump sort of 10% every 10 years and obviously a wide range.
But if you can kind of walk through the composition of renewal options versus spreads on just kind of one-off renewal would be helpful.
Yes the renewal spreads and the renewal as an options posted was 4.6% so it's really a combination of anchor leases as well as midsize shops as well as small shops so you're right that there's typically option increases of anywhere in that range from 5% to 12% of a 10-year basis.
But there are some leases that obviously move the needle each way and we've made a combination really of the major renewals that we've done it.
So it was at Staples where they renewed at almost double their rent in Garden State Pavilion Marshalls at Torrance Promenade in California we took them from close to $5.50 up to $14 a foot.
Shoe Carnival is from $6 to $9 Home Depot exercise their options out at Town Center East in Signal Hill which had a 5% increase.
So we see it as a range where the -- still the growth driver is in our junior boxes and we think that that's going to continue.
There's just very little supply out there.
So these retailers are holding on to the real estate they have because they realize how valuable it is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the non-option renewals weigh on some of those fixed option spreads a little bit and that's where you get to the kind of 4% range? That's correct.
There's a few that were -- that sometimes are rolled down.
There's a few that when you average it out it's a 4.6% spread.
The next question comes from Jim Sullivan of Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Looking at your -- the large tenant list it is pretty interesting that the Kmart exposure has dropped so significantly year-over-year from 50 locations down to 34.
I know some of that is associated with sales but obviously some of it is also associated with recapturing space and redeveloping it.
And I just wonder if we could have an update on whether you expect any major movement there or any additional material recaptured.
You've done some sizable deals in the New York market but maybe just to give us a flavor for how those discussions are going whether there's any accelerated pace of closings to be expected there or not.
We don't see any accelerated pace of closing -- closures but what we do see is they're continuing to be active on trying to sublease positions where they think there's value.
And that usually sparks the conversation of lease terminations payments from Kimco to Kmart or Sears.
We see that there's future opportunities we've been waiting patiently for these older leases for a long time.
We think that's the big differentiator for us so we continue to be in constant communication with them and continue to negotiate on a few deals beauty where we think we can create significant value here from releasing or redevelopment.
And we also even bought an existing center with an existing Kmart lease that's has a short term left in Marathon Florida that's a wonderful redevelopment play.
So we're not afraid of the exposure where we can underwrite the real estate very well.
The next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> While we're on the topic of store closing I was curious what your thoughts are on Office Depot and their notice that they're going to close 400 stores over the next several years 150 this year.
Have they notified you guys of any closings? And what do you have expiring I guess in the way of Depot and Max leases this year? Yes it's obviously been something we've been monitoring for a long period of time.
When you look at the Office Depot OfficeMax exposure we have 67 leases 6 that expired this year and 13 that expire 2015.
But you've got to look at it proactively with the whole office supply sector because the Office Depot OfficeMax closures will impact what Staples decides to do with their portfolio.
So we've been monitoring it closely and working on understanding which assets overlap and we do have upside in those leases that are expiring.
We have 10 office supply leases expiring.
In the next -- through 2017 that we believe are 69% below market.
So we think there are significant upside there.
We've already started the process of pre-releasing that and we think that their square footage is ideal for today's junior anchors.
You can take a look at whether it's soft goods players like TJX or Ross.
There's also a lot of specialty grocers in the market today that are a perfect fit for that 25 000 square foot box It's really the sweet spot for users today.
So we're cautiously optimistic that the closures that will result in the merger.
Will actually result in future outside of potential redevelopment.
LLC Research Division</strong> And have they given you indication Conor of when they might notify you about this first round? They have not yet.
We've been in discussions and we know that we're going to meet with them shortly we've been in constant communications.
So we have a good idea since we have a tracking system of which ones are doing well and which ones have year-over-year decline.
So that we've circled which ones we think are keepers and which ones do we think are closures.
And I think what's happening also whether it's Staples Office Depot OfficeMax and it's because they know like we do there's a lot of interest in their boxes that they're going to close doors now in time for them to go out there and see how they can mitigate their liability.
I imagine they're getting the calls from the same retailers that they're calling us saying "What's available?" I think they're going to really spend the next couple of months seeing what they think will line up and then call us up and say "We want to close and we have XYZ for you to help reduce their cost on the long term lease.
So I think it's going to be a win-win for both of us going forward.
For instance even if they closed all 6 locations in 2014 that are expiring it's less than 1/10 of 1% though of average base rent.
It's just de minimis in the overall picture of Kimco.
The next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to go back to the Safeway investment once more but maybe from a different angle.
You've made a lot of progress in the simplification of your business in the last couple of years which is what your investors were -- clearly wanted.
Can you help me understand or reconcile the recent Safeway investment with the simplification theme? I'm not questioning your ability to structure a sound financial investment especially how well you've priced Safeway investment there but really asking how you thought about balancing the perceptual risk of these kinds of maybe non-core investment versus your simplification goals.
That's a very good question.
We have always had a basic real estate business an A+ business and the plus business we've had for many years on our track record has been superb.
So we just see this as fitting in to the plus business and what excites us about Safeway is that it is -- it's really part of the same consortium that did so well in the other plus businesses Albertsons et cetera.
So in this we've had former many many years it's not deviation from our simplification strategy.
And in terms of the level of capital invested in the business it's very minor compared to the mother ship if you will in our core portfolio.
So it's an adjunct it's synergistic with what we do.
It helps with relationships with retailers and there's an opportunity to make a little money on retailer-owned real estate.
And it gives us a lot of edge and it helps to differentiate the company quite frankly.
And it gives us a lot of insight on the operations level.
It allows us to really understand the grocery business side.
This is something that they own quite a bit of real estate just like the previous transactions and we think there's future upside there for either purchasing and redeveloping or for future developments.
So we like being partners with these types of operator because it gives us a ton of information that we normally wouldn't have available to us.
Research Division</strong> And could you remind us again your exposure to Safeway Albertsons? What percentage of your portfolio that represents? Yes it's 1.1% of ABR.
Again relatively small.
The next question comes from Andrew Schaffer of Sandler O'Neill.
Now that the New England portfolio has closed can you remind us the upside embedded within this portfolio and how you plan on unlocking it? Yes we're pretty excited about the Boston portfolio.
We've obviously been going through an arduous loan assumption process and through that process we actually were able to take over the leasing.
And the previous management team I would say left a lot of meat on the bone.
So during that loan assumption process we were able to actually outperform our underwriting.
A lot of tenants that we had anticipated staying flat instead of exercising their option actually exercised their option across-the-board.
We've done a lot of new leases at above rents -- that -- above rents that we thought we could achieve.
And that's just on the existing portfolio.
We have a potential to add 6 or more pads to the portfolio and we're in the market now looking for pad operators to come into the site.
We've also got future redevelopment potential to add significant density especially in the urban markets where these assets are located.
So we think that the early indicators are very positive.
The cap rate has moved even since for when we put it on a contract to when closed so that we've actually created significant value already.
And we think that's just the tip of the iceberg.
The next question comes from Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the timing of the dispositions that you see going throughout the year.
And after 2014 what's implied for what should be hitting in 2015 as well? Well Mike I mean the timing is a little tricky to say the least.
It's tough to predict when these things will all close.
The additional amount that we've targeted to sell during the year we expect to close more towards the latter part of the year.
So it really does not have a major impact on our 2014 guidance.
So we'll have to see how it plays out kind of refers to my comments that we'll give you a better picture as we go through the year on it.
But we really ramped it up.
And again same thing with the Latin America sales we're happy that we've closed the first piece we've had a lot of thing in play and under contracts the timing is a little tough to predict.
So it's -- the Latin America stuff is really throughout the year.
Yes Mexico in particular is very tough to predict because you have the government's involved.
They have to approve all of these transactions and there's actually been a change in the antitrust commission in Mexico.
And -- so just like the FTC here on bigger deals in Mexico even on smaller deals the government has to finally bless it and that timing is very uncertain.
For example we have a hard contract on 4 assets right now it's subject only to when the government finally approves that.
So that could happen next week or it could be 2 months from now.
So unfortunately it's hard on Glenn because some of this stuff is variable.
I would just add that on the U.S.
portfolio that we have in the market we have seen bids come in higher on individual assets or sub-portfolios so that again is tough to time because it's -- the whole portfolio it's trading out at a certain point in time.
The sub-portfolios might trade at different times.
Yes.
I mean I think the key takeaway really is we are accelerating it.
So if you go back to our Investor Day we kind of laid out plans over a 3 to 4-year period.
We're now -- we really pushed a lot of it into '14 so the amount of dispositions as we go forward '15 '16 I think are going to become a little bit more tempered.
It still remains just a wonderful opportunity.
The window is open and we hope to take advantage of that.
The next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jeremy Metz on with Ross.
Your lease commence kept winding out to about 250 basis points in Q1.
Can you just talk about where you expect this to be later in the year and therefore the impact that it can have on your same-store growth which at 1.5% started off in a little bit of a tough position versus guidance? Sure.
Currently the spread between executed occupancy and rent flowing occupancy is as you mentioned close to 250 basis points.
We actually think that that's a future upside for us and we think that a closer to 100 basis points it's going to start flowing in Q2 and we see that there's larger redevelopment programs coming online in the second quarter as well as the rest of the year.
I mean half that we've been talking about for a while which has been Nordstrom and DSW.
Repositioning project that's coming online later this year.
At the Greenridge Plaza out in Staten Island we have an LA Fitness coming on later this year.
Bass Pro in Alaska is coming on later this year.
So we haven't changed our guidance same side NOI.
Clearly we were impacted by it.
It was almost a perfect storm of snow currency.
So we obviously know that there's future growth is going to happen in the second half of the year.
And that's what our budget actually -- our internal budget shows.
So we feel pretty comfortable that we can perform and have some significant growth in the second half of the year.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you could just go back to Sears.
I remember in your Investor Day and some other conversations that a lot of upside in your portfolio does stem from these kind of older historic leases from Sears or Office Depot leases.
Is there some kind of concern that if Sears does go this route of actively re-leasing their own space some of this upside is inherently kind of capped by them capturing the upside? And what kind of legal or lease language protections do you have in controlling who comes into that sublease space? I mean the Kmart leases are pretty open for them to sign or sublet them.
However I think the issue for them is there aren't a lot of 100 000 square foot to 120 000 square foot users out there.
So they got to subdivide the box how many times they need to work with landlords to do that.
So I think that the opportunities for them to take their -- the tenants they have and work with them to do a deal that's beneficial for Kimco on that.
It's not like we -- they can really do a lot of deals without reaching out to landlords.
So I think we'll be involved in the process.
We are better suited.
They have 1 000 stores.
They can subdivide all of these stores themselves.
They have the manpower do that.
So they'll be working with landlords like Kimco on sites they want to sublet.
Yes.
All of the indicators show that they're not interested in becoming landlords.
They're not interested in taking the headaches of the construction risk and they -- you have either sold or look to exit their leasehold positions.
So we're continuing to work with them we think there's significant upside embedded in our portfolio and a lot of the leases that we have left that we showcased in our Investor Day do not have any remaining options left.
So there's really not a whole lot of term left for them to sublease to any retailer so we have some protection there where we have to be able to recapture it.
So many times they hand us the retailer that's interested in the space and we do a deal direct and have Kmart go away.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if they do sublease it is there a way you guys partake in the economic upside or is that...? Well it's not -- yes we can definitely -- could be a big part of the economical deal.
But you also have to understand is that literally come into leases where they are all under option periods.
So they might have 8 5-year options but relative to the process where you're doing a deal with a tenant they want a 10-year lease with 2 5-year options which might not match up with their lease so that becomes a problem for them.
So that problem is an opportunity to try to get involved in the deal and make the transaction that's beneficial for us.
The next question comes from David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> After your South American and Central American sales we're left with Canada as your non-dollar investment area.
It's about 10% of the company on a number of metrics.
I think -- have you given any consideration to hedging yourself against the effects of volatility at the loonie? We -- well we are hedged in terms of investments in 2 respects.
We have Canadian dollar mortgages on almost all of the properties and then the equity that we've invested in Canada has basically been through a Canadian dollar denominated unsecured bond from Kimco.
So the investment itself is hedged the only part of it that's not hedged is the FFO or the income that comes off at every year and for most years we've been on the plus.
This year for the first time we've been on the negative side of that.
But again in terms of the total scope of Kimco it's not much.
And the portfolio itself continues to perform very well.
Did that answer your question Mr.
Harris? LLC Research Division</strong> Not entirely but I'm not sure I want to pursue it on the conference call.
We can talk anytime David.
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't know if you looked at the forecast -- most people's forecast for the expectations of where the Canadian dollar is going to go relative to the U.S.
dollar over the next couple of years.
My number is you're -- about 5% of your net assets are -- so it's actually about 10% it's meaningful.
You're not going to put currency mismatch but your Canadian exposure is not misaligned with your U.S.
exposures we've seen with a number of others REITs that have mismanaged their at foreign exchange exposure.
But I still think it potentially is a source for NAV and earnings vulnerability as we go forward.
Again we've done the very best we can to match the total investment against Canadian dollars.
The income you are right it is at risk.
But we don't think it's that material.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well the NAV is also at risk.
But remember if the Canadian dollar weakens more the Canadian dollars we're paying back in U.S.
dollars also weakens.
So I would respectfully disagree with that.
The liabilities side also is matched to the asset side because we have Canadian dollar bonds and we have Canadian dollar mortgage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
But you got more net asset exposure gross asset exposure than your liabilities so there is the net asset exposure here to changes in the FX.
That's true.
LLC Research Division</strong> And at 10% it's meaningful.
I mean if I'm right on my numbers -- let's say just probably a discussion offline some time.
Yes.
We can take that offline David.
We got a few more people in the queue that we want to get to.
Next question comes from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David I just wanted to dig in real quick on the new lease spread.
The way you describe it it sounds like it was more than just a single lease that was responsible for the significant bump.
And while I recognize that the amount of your leasing volume is relatively small compared to the overall amount of volume you guys did I just was kind of curious as to sort of how you're thinking about that new lease environment and specifically whether or not we are at the beginning of seeing potentially rent spikes of consequence that are broadly based in the portfolio? I'll take the first part.
I think the new lease population here it's relative to our peers.
It's actually quite large.
We have 153 new leases signed in the quarter.
So compare this on our peers that's actually quite a large population.
So we are I think actively working towards new leasing and see the pop in terms of where the rents are going.
We have replaced some of the lower -- what we like to call the vintage leases.
One of them was a below market out plot or pad lease.
Some of the other larger deals that we do with TJ Maxx Home Goods Sports Authority.
We were replacing it all Kmart box so yes we've been able to harvest the upside in these new leases that are replacing some very below market leases.
And I did want to highlight it in my comments because I do think it is the beginning of a spike in the market rents.
Things are popping up nicely driven by a shortage of a space available.
When you combine that 35-year low of new construction with the 5-year high of planned new store openings good things start to happen in terms of rents.
So yes we feel good about what's happening on the new lease and market rents.
The next question comes from Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Conor just going back to your comment about increased leasing to nail salons and other mom-and-pop service tenants can you talk about how you're approaching the underwriting of these non-national tenants? And is there any change in how you're approaching it or it's just a function that you're not giving them any TIs and just taking a flyer at them.
And then I guess as an extension how do you think about the mix in the -- in your centers between leasing to a more service-oriented which might get more people to come in versus the national that could pay a higher rent? Sure.
It's a good question.
We look at every small shop lease individually and it really comes down to the tenant's financial strength.
We look at in great detail on what assets are behind them.
So we underwrite them appropriately to figure out what kind of TI payment we feel comfortable giving them.
Many times if it's a mom-and-pop tenant that is a first time user we steer them to a space that's either previously built out for the same type of use.
So the risk is to manage quite a bit because most of the fixtures and the improvements are already in the space.
So the cost to have them open and do business is relatively lower.
That being said there's -- we've had a wonderful track record of a mom-and-pop especially the nail salons the hair salons.
They are tenants in our shopping centers that have done quite well and have been a good investment for Kimco and Kimco's shareholders.
And when comparing and contrasting the service for our local users versus the national it really comes down to the composition of the asset and the demographics that's surrounding asset.
You've got to really put together a nice offering that differentiates yourself.
You don't want to have the same type of user lined up or next to each other all the way down to little shops because it really doesn't add to the complexity or the offering that you're trying to give to the neighborhood.
So you really just have to take a step back and look at a void analysis what's missing in the market what's currently in the shopping center what's doing well in the shopping center what's complimentary to the mix that's there and what you can do to actually enhance it.
So that's really what we look at.
It comes down to the individual tenant when you're looking at the financial strength and then it comes down to the individual assets the surrounding demographics when you're deciding on what's the highest and best use.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean clearly there's some very fine nail salons out there.
The one I use is great.
But I mean you can't argue that was -- the mom-and-ops were clearly a source of weakness in the previous downturn so? That's true that's true.
And the dollars invested in the pure local mom-and-pops are significantly lower than the national.
So we do have a discount rate appropriate to the risk-taking on that small shop tenant.
And most of the small shops that are hurt the hardest in the last downturn wasn't really the nail salons or the hair salons.
It was more of the specialty users that were offering something that couldn't compete with the online world and the big-box retailers that just got demolished when the downturn occurred.
And I would add one comment.
The community banking system is coming back and that's the source of capital for most of these small tenants.
So you are the jewelry store looking for a second location the dry cleaner looking for a second location so that bodes well for us as well.
Andrew we have time for one final question.
The last question will come from Linda Tsai Barclays.
Research Division</strong> What percentage of your leases constitute vintage leases? And over the next few years how much of an impact do you think this can have on the blended rent spread? Linda most of that was covered in our Investor Day I do have that information I'll be more than happy to share with you.
At my fingertips we don't have that right now but that's more than something I can give you immediately after the call.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Andrew.
Thanks to everybody that participated on our call today.
If you have some additional questions that you weren't able to get to on the call I'll be more than happy to take them all day today.
Also there's additional information for the company that can be found on our supplemental as well as on our website.
Thank you very much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corporation Second Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry President and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Cohen Chief Financial Officer; Conor Flynn Chief Operating Officer; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
[Operator Instructions] And with that I turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you very much for calling in this morning.
We are very pleased to report strong second quarter results.
Glenn and Conor will provide specific details but our operating metrics continue to be excellent led by significant increases in portfolio occupancy including small shop space and our 16th straight quarter of solid leasing spreads for both new leases and renewals.
With respect to the retail industry overall the fundamentals remain strong with effective rents and occupancy improving across the board.
National retailers continue to expand in the face of population growth positive GDP and limited new retail supply.
The annual ICSC shopping center convention in Las Vegas in May was upbeat with attendance and the number of exhibitors increasing over prior years.
Given the increase in market rents we are beginning to see the first signs of new development activity although by no means near the size and scope of the large speculative projects built prior to 2009.
In general national retailers have found effective online strategies to complement their physical store presence and the top 3 retailers in online sales growth all have physical stores Macy's Walmart and Apple.
Overall it is encouraging to note that retail sales per person have increased by 16% from the prior peak in 2008.
Consumer confidence now is at the highest level since October 2007 and retailers in general are very optimistic about the back-to-school shopping season.
Looking at the neighborhood and community shopping center sector itself the industry is strong and healthy.
And we believe most of our retail tenants fall in the internet-resistant category as they generally focus on necessity-based goods and services.
Services alone account for 2/3 of consumer spending and are growing.
Restaurants dry cleaners health clubs urgent care centers nail salons are all examples of products and services that are very difficult to obtain in an e-commerce world.
In terms of our strategy we continue to be focused on what we call TSR+: T for transformation in terms of upgrading our portfolio S for simplification as we exit Latin America and reduce the number of our joint ventures and R for redevelopment or our pipeline of active redevelopment projects is approaching $1 billion with excellent projected returns.
And finally we have our plus business which very selectively invest in retailers who own much of their real estate.
This has been a small but opportunistic and very profitable part of our company for many years and provides synergies knowledge and experience dealing with retailers of all types.
As outlined in our earnings release we have made notable progress across the board acquiring full ownership of many portfolios of high-quality retail assets by purchasing the interests of our institutional partners in existing joint ventures.
Most recently SEB KIF and LaSalle with BIG scheduled to close soon.
Overall since the bottom of the recession in 2009 Kimco has purchased full equity ownership in 88 properties totaling $2.3 billion in gross value from existing joint venture partners.
Many of these acquisitions were completed at very favorable cap rates due to timing and the cost savings involved in loan assumptions transfer taxes and the lack of third-party brokers being involved.
Supplementing these acquisitions of existing Kimco-managed assets we have also selectively acquired excellent retail properties from third parties in strong long-term markets such as Boston Charlotte and Raleigh.
Combined with the aggressive sales of secondary retail assets in our U.S.
portfolio now 180 sites comprising approximately 18 million square feet since late 2010 our portfolio has been transformed with much improved demographics higher average rents and increased portfolio occupancy.
These actions taken together have created a significantly superior national portfolio of excellent retail properties with robust projected NOI growth and significant redevelopment opportunities.
For those interested in the status of Kimco's participation in the previously announced pending merger of Albertsons and Safeway the transaction remains under FTC review but our partnership is cautiously optimistic of closing the merger by year end.
The Safeway shareholders voted overwhelmingly to approve the transaction on July 25.
With respect to Latin America we closed another portfolio sale of 4 retail properties in the second quarter and the announced sale at the Fibra shop of 3 more retail properties should close shortly.
In addition we have a signed letter of intent for 9 additional Mexico shopping centers which will leave us with only 1 large shopping center in Mexico not currently under contract or letter of intent although we do have a number of interested parties reviewing this asset.
As a result we continue to be on track to sell essentially all of our Latin American properties by year end.
Fortunately the market for Mexican REITs known as Fibras continues to be strong with substantial demand for existing income property type -- of all types.
Looking quickly at Canada.
Our Canadian portfolio remains a strong and solid contributor to our earnings notwithstanding the recent softness of the Canadian dollar.
Our Canadian properties remain well occupied at 95.9% with leasing spreads of 10.4% and same-site NOI growth of 3.6% before currency.
There are also several significant redevelopment opportunities in the Canadian portfolio.
And now Glenn will outline our specific financial results for the quarter to be followed by Conor's discussion of our portfolio results and then Milton as usual will provide some high-level observations.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Let me provide some detail on the results reported last night.
As a reminder we use the term FFO as adjusted to represent recurring FFO which excludes transactional income and expense and nonoperating impairments.
Headline FFO represents the official NAREIT definition.
FFO as adjusted per share was $0.35 for the second quarter up from $0.34 last quarter and $0.35 a year ago.
For the 6 months ended FFO as adjusted per share was $0.69 as compared to $0.67 last year a 3% increase.
The key drivers of our second quarter FFO as adjusted performance were attributable to increased U.S.
shopping center NOI of approximately $19 million from higher occupancy levels and increased rental rates coupled with contributions from the significant acquisition activity completed.
We also benefited from lower interest expense of $2.2 million as a result of the reduced borrowing costs on our recent debt issuances.
These increases were reduced by the sales of the InTown Suites investment and the American Industries portfolios last year which contributed $11 million of FFO to the second quarter last year.
In addition NOI was reduced by $8.5 million from the sales of the assets in Mexico and Latin America.
Headline FFO per share for the second quarter was $0.34 which includes $2 million of transactional income associated with the gains on land sales and promotes earned on the disposition of preferred equity interests.
Headline FFO also includes $4 million of transactional expenses related to acquisition costs and severance related to the wind down of our Latin America operations.
The property operations team delivered strong operating results this quarter.
U.S.
occupancy reached 95% up 30 basis points from last quarter and up 110 basis points from a year ago.
This is the highest occupancy level in 5.5 years and we believe we have room to improve it further.
Combined occupancy now stands at 94.8% up 30 basis points from last quarter and up 110 basis points from a year ago.
Combined same-site NOI growth was 2.8% before the negative impact of currency of 80 basis points.
Same-site NOI growth for the U.S.
was 2.5% in line with our internal forecast.
We expect stronger same-site NOI growth levels for the third and fourth quarters based on the strong leasing and occupancy gains over the past year.
We are maintaining our full year guidance of same-site NOI growth in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
We continued to acquire high-quality properties in denser higher-income markets from third-parties and our joint venture partners.
Year-to-date we've acquired 26 new properties for a gross price of $393 million and the remaining interest in 25 properties from our joint venture partners valued at $777 million including the recently closed SEB portfolio.
We furthered our recycling program efforts with the disposition of 15 U.S.
nonstrategic properties for a gross sales price of $186 million during the quarter.
We recognized non-FFO gains totaling $107.8 million during the quarter from property sales and the KIF portfolio transaction.
In addition as a result of our accelerated and shortened expected hold period we reviewed book values of over 170 properties and took non-FFO impairments of $85.7 million on those assets where we believe the fair market value is less than the book value.
Please keep in mind there are substantial non-FFO gains that will be realized upon the sale of the assets which were not written down.
We are in the final phase of our exit of Latin America with under $400 million remaining after the completed sale Dave mentioned.
We have a contract for the sale of 3 properties for $96 million our share which is expected to close shortly.
In addition we have an LOI for the sale of 9 more properties in Mexico for $167 million and in negotiations to sell our last asset in Chile.
As we have previously disclosed under U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles not until a company substantially liquidates its investment in a foreign country can the impact of foreign currency translation gains or losses be recognized in earnings.
As of June 30 the unrealized loss due to currency associated with our Mexico and South American assets was $117 million.
The final impact of currency will apply to the respective gains and losses on the sales of these operating properties and will not affect FFO at the time it is recognized.
Our acquisition target range for the year is $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion which has been substantially completed.
And our disposition target range including Mexico and South America sales is $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion.
We continue to keep our balance sheet metrics and liquidity position in excellent shape.
Early in the second quarter we issued a $500 million 7-year bond at a coupon of 3.2% using the proceeds to repay higher coupon maturing mortgage debt and unsecured bonds.
We ended the quarter with net debt to recurring EBITDA of 5.8x in our target range of 5.5x to 6x and fixed charge coverage of 3x.
Also we have over $1.4 billion of immediate liquidity available to us through cash on hand and our revolving credit facility.
With respect to guidance we are reaffirming our 2014 guidance range of FFO as adjusted per share of $1.36 to $1.40 with a bias towards the midpoint of $1.38.
The guidance range includes the dilutive impact from the acceleration of dispositions and the exit from Latin America as well as the positive impact from the significant acquisition activity and refinancing savings.
With that I'll turn it over to Conor.
Thanks Glenn.
Today I will update our progress on acquisitions and disposition and then cover the progress on our redevelopments.
Finally I will recap the leasing and operations activity for the quarter.
As outlined in our press release we had a very active second quarter acquiring a large portfolio in Boston and buying out our partners from the Kimco Income Fund.
After the quarter end we also bought our partner SEB's interest in 10 properties.
Since the beginning of the second quarter we have acquired 46 properties with a gross value in excess of $950 million primarily in our key territories.
The quality and demographics of these assets are excellent and the blended cap rate is 6.2%.
While we are active in the open market we are proceeding with caution due to historic low cap rates and continue to search for acquisitions with redevelopment opportunities that will allow our skilled associates the opportunity to unlock value for our shareholders.
Recent transactions on high-quality assets reflect aggressive pricing making our redevelopment pipeline an even more attractive use of our capital right now.
Turning to dispositions.
During the second quarter Kimco's sold ownership interest in 15 U.S.
properties 7 wholly-owned and 8 held in joint ventures totaling 1.7 million square feet for a gross sales price of $185.6 million including $23.3 million of mortgage debt.
The implied cap rate for these assets is a blended 7.4% and the company's share of the proceeds from these sales is $121.5 million.
Cap rates continue to compress across all quality levels as the thirst for yield has investors stepping out on the risk spectrum in search of places to put capital to work.
I'm pleased with the pace of our dispositions so far this year as we have sold 37 properties at a blended 7.8% cap rate and are taking advantage of the ideal market conditions to exit our noncore assets.
In the first half of the year we have been a net acquirer in the U.S.
But we expect to be a net seller in the second half by completing the sale of multiple portfolios and individual assets that are currently under contract.
We currently have 44 properties in the U.S.
that are under contract totaling approximately $325.8 million at an implied cap rate of 8.5%.
We have prioritized the dispositions of our low-growth assets and our at-risk assets.
An example of this during the quarter includes flat long-term triple net leases 2 with Winn-Dixie in Louisiana and 1 with Costco at a center in Ogden Utah marking our exit from the state of Utah.
Another example is a center we recently sold in West Palm Beach Florida that has a Kmart at above market rents in a location where the retail note has shifted dramatically.
Bidders on these properties include public and private REITs pension funds high net worth individuals international and 1031 buyers.
We are cautiously optimistic that our transformation to a Tier 1 portfolio will be substantially executed over the next year.
Redevelopment projects enable us to optimize the operating performance of our core real estate holdings and continue to generate accretive returns on our invested capital.
The strength of our real estate holdings provide us with an incredible opportunity to unlock value by understanding the highest and best use and delivering a superior product to fit the needs of the local community.
Our redevelopment projects include multiple improvements that will create an environment that engages and focuses on the customer experience which is critical in today's world.
All of our redevelopment projects include a significant change to the footprint of the asset.
Alongside adding density redevelopments also include site upgrades that will reduce capital expenditures for many years to come.
With a focus on sustainability and asset repositioning we have improved site lighting with LED upgrades and gateway controls that have produced energy savings of 18%.
We are now integrating mobile irrigation controls mobile lighting controls and Wi-Fi enabling our assets to provide our shoppers a greener safer and omnichannel-connected environment.
Specialty grocers continued to expand and perform above the expectations giving us the ability to add a grocery anchor to sites that have never before had all the benefits of a grocery component.
This blurring of lines across traditional grocery-anchored centers and power centers bodes well for our portfolio.
The percent of our portfolio with a grocery component based on ABR is now 63.7% up from 58.6% at the end of 2013.
Recent deals with Whole Foods Sprouts Fresh Thyme Farmers Market and Lucky's provide a luxury that we previously did not have in our power centers.
A specialty grocery will help drive sales to our surrounding retailers and improve Kimco's net asset value as more and more of our shopping centers become grocery anchored.
The retailer demand is significant for these opportunities and a great example is where we have 2 redevelopments in Florida Tri-City Plaza in Largo and Renaissance Center in Altamonte Springs where the centers are close to 100% pre-leased with Whole Foods LA Fitness Sports Authority Ross and PETCO all before breaking ground.
We are continuing to expand our redevelopment pipeline and this quarter added over $100 million of new projects to the pipeline.
Currently our pipeline totals $919 million up from $792 million last quarter.
We now have $314 million of active redevelopment projects $344 million of projects under design and entitlement review and $261 million in the evaluation phase.
I am encouraged by the progress we have made to date and believe there is more to come as we comb the existing portfolio for opportunities to recapture boxes that call for a higher and better use and focus our acquisitions to require a redevelopment component.
Before diving into leasing metrics for the quarter I would just like to say that the U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 2.5% did receive a nice pop of 40 basis points from redevelopments that we delivered this quarter.
Thanks to our prolific dealmakers the leasing volume continues to show no signs of slowing down as we signed 183 new leases for a total of 916 000 gross square feet.
U.S.
occupancy rose 30 basis points to 95% driven by a 29 basis point gain via positive net absorption and only 1 basis point gain due to dispositions.
This is a great data point showcasing the hard work done by our team to fill up our remaining vacancies.
Drilling down.
Anchor occupancy increased 20 basis points pro-rata to 97.8% compared to the prior quarter and a few notable new leases this quarter include TJ Maxx Ross Bed Bath &amp; Beyond CVS LA Fitness Fila Peretas and Sports Authority.
Small shop occupancy increased 70 basis points pro-rata to 86.3% compared to the prior quarter and is up 200 basis points pro-rata compared to the same quarter last year.
The small shop leasing recovery continues to be led by a mix of service-based tenants and restaurants.
Multiple deals this quarter were executed with national small shop operators such as Chipotle and AT&amp;T in addition to regional players including MOD Pizza and multiple deals with franchisees such as Subway and Jersey Mike's.
Of note we also completed 91 deals with pure mom-and-pop retailers out of a total of 161 small shop leases a good indicator that local business is bouncing back predominantly hair and nail salons and 10 new medical deals.
Our average base rent for small shops on the entire portfolio now sits at $23.75 a foot up $0.46 from the beginning of the year.
I would also like to welcome a new tenant to our portfolio this quarter Expedia.com.
An Expedia franchisee rented a small shop from us in North Carolina where they plan to staff the space to help customers with their travel needs.
We take this as a sign that if it helps their business online vendors will continue to open brick-and-mortar locations.
Our new leasing spreads of 13.3% pro-rata was driven by across-the-board double-digit positive spreads on junior anchors mid-sized shops and small shops.
The average base rents on new deals was $15.93 pro-rata which is 20% above our current average base rent.
Renewals and options leasing spreads posted a 8.2% pro-rata increase and overall leasing spreads in the U.S.
increased 9.7%.
In closing the asset base at Kimco has never been stronger and our operations team is aligned and focused on showcasing what we do best.
If you get a chance to visit a Kimco Center I hope you notice the difference.
We have received 10 city beautification awards this year and our pride of ownership is evident.
We intend to give our everyday shoppers the ultimate shopping experience to keep them coming back time and time again.
And with that I will turn it over to Milton.
Well thank you Conor.
From time to time over the years I have trumpeted the fact that as compared to other real estate assets one of the unique attributes of neighborhood community shopping centers is the very very high ratio of land to total value.
The typical shopping center is comprised of a one-story building and 5x as much land as the square footage of the building's footprint.
The land component often exceeds the parking requirements and thus becomes an additional asset.
In a growing economy land is one of the best and least risky long-term investments.
It is irreplaceable indestructible and a natural hedge against inflation.
And as the land increases in values it allows the center's extra land to be set aside for a land bank as I like to say for additional investment opportunities.
In the meantime the revenue generated from the improvements covers the real estate taxes and other tariff costs and other carrying costs of the land.
Today the opportunities that land banking affords us can take many forms including the expansion of existing centers development of our parcels sales to third parties and possibly mixed-use development.
As markets change and evolve it is incumbent upon us to make sure that we are maximizing each asset's value in order to maximize top shareholder return.
In addition to our redevelopment projects spearheaded by Conor we have on occasion drawn down from our land bank to unlock additional value in a mixed-use context.
Where the opportunities for mixed-use projects exist we are careful to make sure that any non-retail component enhances the primary retail component.
It is this synergy that increases the overall asset's value.
So for example in 2 quality centers in Washington D.C.
and Boca Raton we are working with the best-in-class developers to build residential apartments on excess land that we believe will create more demand for our centers' tenants and overall to create a better asset for long-term.
Let me be specific.
In Pentagon Plaza just outside Washington D.C a 750-apartment project is under consideration.
And in Boca Raton Florida we are looking at 300 residential units to complement our shopping center.
We are also considering a smaller residential project in Columbia Maryland which we believe will further enhance our existing retail center.
Now in another instance in the Bronx in a shopping center that lies in the shadows of Yankee Stadium adjacent to the Bronx County Courthouse or Bronx Municipal Building in one of the densest parts of New York City we built with a partner on excess land that we own behind the retail center a five-story 67 000 square foot office building.
Our ability to unlock additional value in our current portfolio can play an important part in our future growth.
And given the size of our portfolio and the length of ownership of many of our properties some have been owned for more than 50 years I am confident that we will continue to find value-creation opportunities within our portfolio.
And with that we'll be happy to take any questions.
As Milton indicated we're ready for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from Paul Morgan from MLV.
Research Division</strong> If I heard you right the 44 assets that are under contract were at an 8.5 cap rate is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything that's higher than what you're blended number has been? Is there anything in terms of the mix that's noteworthy there? I mean obviously you've been talking about cap rates across the quality spectrum compressing.
And as we think about in the rest of the year and into 2015 and look at the quality of what you have that you'd like to sell from then on I mean is -- what's the right number to think of? It's a fair assumption to say that the cap rate will continue to decrease over time.
8.5% is really the last tranche of assets that we're moving out of from the Midwest.
And it's a portfolio deal that we are anticipating to close this year.
And once that's completed the assets that we will continue to look to dispose of will be at a lower cap rate.
Next question comes from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Research Division</strong> With your growing ground-up development initiative can you talk a little bit more about some of the markets you're targeting and the yield you're underwriting? We've started to look at our key markets.
For all of our ground-up developments going forward we would develop to hold long-term.
So these are our key markets where we already have boots on the ground and a portfolio of assets.
And we are looking at potential adjacent parcels.
We're also looking at areas where there's a lot of growth whether it's employment or population growth.
So Houston is one that we're looking at right now.
Fort Lauderdale is another one that we're looking at as well as Christiana Delaware.
So those are the 3 that I think we're really focused on to see if we could put together development deals for the next stage of the cycle.
And we're underwriting to somewhere between a 7.5 to 9.5 yield.
Next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could get a little bit more color on the reason you're expecting the anticipated acceleration in same-store NOI in the second half whether it's leases signed not occupied the pickup in small shops or maybe even a little more friendly currency exchange market? Yes.
No problem that's a good question.
We still have a large cushion between our property leased occupancy and our economic occupancy.
There's actually 230 basis points between the 2.
So those are deals that are fully baked and are yet to start flowing.
And those we anticipate to come online in the second half of the year.
We actually budgeted -- each year we do an in-depth asset by asset budget and we saw that the second half of the year was actually significantly higher in terms of our same-site NOI growth.
The other thing to keep in mind is we are coming off a pretty tough comp up 4.2% in the second quarter of last year.
Next question comes from Sameer Kanal from ISI Group.
One your leasing spreads you guys put out at close to 10% on a blended basis here.
Looking forward maybe into next year do think this is a good run rate? I mean the demand is certainly strong from retailers to maybe push renewals maybe into the low-double digits and mid to high double-digits do you think for new leases? The demand is definitely there to continue on that trend.
It will probably -- spreads tend to be driven sometimes by one large deal so you need to keep that in mind.
But overall because our portfolio is large we do believe that our spreads will continue on that trend.
The demand from retailers is not subsiding and we continue to see really a good pipeline of new deals not only on spaces we currently have vacant but on spaces we plan to recapture.
So I think that's a fair assumption.
Next question comes from Jason White from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on your redevelopment pipeline.
I know this is a tough question to pinpoint but if you can kind of broad brush when you look at the amount of the spend that's going to be on -- in deferred maintenance type projects versus true kind of expansion projects can you kind of split that out in what's parking lots and roofs versus actual new square footage? We can go in and give you more detail on that and break it out for you.
Right now the way that we look at our redevelopment projects it's really all-encompassing.
So if we have an old Kmart that we need to reposition and demolish improving the parking lot improving the site lighting improving everything at the asset really goes into the redevelopment project.
But if it's a smaller scale project where we're taking down only a portion of the asset and expanding it for a junior box those are ones that really -- the majority of the costs go into the expansion of the box rather than more site improvements.
But we can go into more detail there and break it out for you.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Ryan Peterson from Sandler O'Neill.
Just 1 question for me.
I wanted to ask given the demand for large boxes and scarcity of that space is it possible that the economics might start to make sense for you to deepen small shop space and create more big boxes? It's a good question.
We actually have seen that be a trend where junior boxes are actually stepping up their rents to be able to make the economics work.
We have done it on a number of different sites where we combine small shops and expand out the back of the shopping center.
TJ Maxx Ross are the two that are probably the most active in that space because there's such a lack of new product and lack of supply.
So there's definitely that occurring in our portfolio and we're actually working on a number of those deals going forward as well.
Next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So you've talked extensively about the captive acquisition opportunities with your existing JVs.
So my question is on the cap rate spread differential between open market purchases and these JV opportunities.
And I understand every deal is different.
It looks like the Boston portfolio and open market deal was acquired at about a 6-ish flat yield while the recent SEB JV was consummated at a high 6 yield.
So wondering should we view this as a representative spread? And then also can you talk about potential disposition and redevelopment opportunities within both portfolios? Well first of all they vary widely.
Over the past couple of years as we've been aggressively talking with our partners some of these deals are tougher negotiations than others.
And the portfolios themselves are very different.
You're right there was quite a different spread differential between the SEB transaction and the Boston portfolio.
In general we believe there's around a 50 basis points difference if you take a look at them altogether.
And a lot of that savings is not necessarily a difference in just a negotiating grade.
It's the fact that there is a true win-win in these situations.
There's generally not a third-party broker involved.
There's generally much less transfer taxes involved.
We're not talking about mortgage assumption fees.
We have the right to do these things.
These are very quick acquisitions.
We don't have to do a lot of due diligence.
We know these assets.
We've been managing them.
So truly is a win-win in many cases here.
And on the dispositions and redevelopment question.
We will be selling 2 assets out of the Boston portfolio 3 assets out of the SEB portfolio and we've already completed 1 of 2 out of the KIF portfolio.
And then on the redevelopment question because we've been managing the SEB and KIF portfolios we've worked over those assets pretty significantly and the majority of our redevelopment potential comes from the Boston portfolio.
There's a number of out parcels we plan to -- we actually have in the market right now to users as well as some mixed-use components where we have to go through a lengthy entitlement process in Boston that we are optimistic about long term in creating value there.
Next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS Securities.
Jeremy Mertz [ph] here.
Obviously you guys are making some good progress in the small shop space.
You mentioned a fair amount of leases of mom-and-pops this quarter.
Can you just talk about where you see small shop occupancy going in the next 12 to 24 months? Does it get up to 90%? And also what do you think is helping drive a bit of the rebound in mom-and-pop? It's a good question.
I think in 24 months we should see it get to 90%.
We do have a large pipeline of pending deals that will continue on this trend in the upward momentum.
We've shifted our focus to the small shop space because we think that's really a large portion of our growth going forward.
But we do see still growth involved in the junior anchors and the vacancies we have left there as well.
So we do anticipate that that will continue.
And we see the rebound in local businesses.
It's pretty apparent in our key markets that the mom-and-pop has come back in a major way.
Hair salons nail salons service-based industries restaurants family businesses have all come back to our shopping centers.
And we anticipate that to continue as the economy strengthens.
The housing market seems to continue to improve.
And that should coordinate -- that should correlate to more small shop deals.
I would just add that the community banking system has recovered fully now and are more aggressive about local lending.
Most of these smaller businesses rely on the community banking system.
So if you're a jewelry store or a local dry cleaner looking for a second you really need that community banking system to be healthy.
And it is now healthy.
And those loans are going up and increasing so that's healthy.
I would also just add that it's such a local business real estate especially for the local users that in order to target those operators you've got to have people on the ground combing the portfolio for those types of retailers to come into your shopping center.
So in order to have that growth we've really focused on putting more people into the field at the property level.
Next question comes from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You suggested it seems that there'll be about another year I think of disposition activity before you're largely through with the disposition process.
And I'm curious what is the volume that you think you have left in terms of I guess dollars of disposition activity? And then when you're complete what do you think your long-term same-store NOI growth rate would look like? We still have about a year left to go on our dispositions pipeline you're right.
We have close to 200 assets still to move and we think that that's going to be right around $1 billion worth of assets.
From the same-site growth perspective we think we're exiting out of our lower growth assets as well as our at-risk assets that weigh us down for such a large portfolio.
And we're still targeting 3% for -- 3% plus for a continual growth rate for our portfolio.
And to somebody's earlier question we do anticipate the cap rates drifting down from that 8.5% level we've been averaging on this next $1 billion if you will.
So it shouldn't be quite as dilutive as we've had in the past.
Next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we're thinking about development and redevelopment deliveries over the next 2 years what sort of an annual number are you contemplating? And then how do you see the mix shifting to include more I guess new ground-up activity? Right now our focus is really on redevelopment.
We've built up the pipeline relatively quickly and we anticipate $130 million or so to deliver this year $150 million to deliver next year $190 million to deliver the year after that and then $230 million to be delivered in 2017 and then continue to ramp it from there.
Our ground-up developments will be additive to the pipeline and should give us a little bit more growth on the out years because these redevelopments are assets that we can deliver in the near term.
While the ground-up development when we go through the entitlement process and the pre-leasing process it should add growth to our portfolio in the out years.
What is a great sign for our industry and our company is that rents have moved up enough to justify ground-up development now.
So that's a significant milestone in terms of recovering from the recession.
Next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cohen and Associates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you guys regarding this position on Safeway.
There was a shareholder vote recently that was in favor of the deal.
And I guess as you proceed toward hopefully completing the deal you have to go through the FTC.
I wonder to what extent and I can understand if you're not comfortable talking about detail on this but I wonder to what extent the likelihood of some store closings is having any impact at all on pricing in the market? I.e if a lot of the Safeway/Albertsons boxes are going to have to come back on the market with stores being closed.
To what extent is that inhibiting demand or pricing or terms on deals for those grocers looking to expand in the market now? Let me first of all say that there's not any intent to close any stores.
What we're working through with the FTC is whether stores have to be divested.
And by that meaning that we have to find other operators that could continue the stores in operation post-closing.
And in a sense to keep it a competitive marketplace.
So to close a store and cease the operations would not make it competitive [indiscernible].
So the FTC is going to be looking for us to find other buyers that are qualified by the FTC to run these stores.
And at this point there's no planned store closings due to the merging of the companies.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Chris Lucas from Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David just a quick follow up on the comments you made about development.
When you think about the timeframe over which this has happened is that a recent phenomenon where rents have met the threshold where development makes sense? And are there -- is this a national or very specific locally phenomenon? I believe it is a recent occurrence where rents have significantly jumped and particularly these national retailers are beginning to be particularly anxious about meeting the store count that they've promised Wall Street and internally.
And I don't think it's related to any particular market.
Obviously there's stronger markets and some of these primary markets we've talked about before are magnets for retailers that are obviously looking for where there's job growth and good demographics and population growth is where these retailers want to expand.
And I think Conor gave you a good range in terms of Houston Florida and New Jersey as being the 3 that we're looking at now.
But 6 months ago we weren't looking at ground-up development.
And I doubt many of our peers were either.
So it is a significant milestone in my opinion that rents have jumped to this level and the economy is doing well enough and as I mentioned consumer confidence being at an all-time high compared going all the way back to October of 2007.
I mean that all bodes well I think.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thank you to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplementals as posted on our website.
Have a good day.
This conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Gary.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry Chief Executive Officer; Conor Flynn President and Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Cohen CFO.
There are also other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
(Operator Instructions) With that I’ll turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for calling in today.
We are very pleased to report excellent third quarter financial results which highlight very healthy fundamentals in our portfolio.
Our operating metrics across the board for the quarter were excellent led by solid occupancy gains and strong growth in U.S same-site NOI of 4.9%.
We continue to be pleased with the improving trends in small shop space and our 15th straight quarter of solid leasing spreads for both new leases and renewals.
As we have discussed in prior calls limited new supply population growth and positive GDP growth have all combined to provide excellent momentum for increases in effective rents leasing spreads and occupancies across the open air shopping center sector particularly in high quality properties in primary markets.
While retailers in general have had a mixed year so far there is optimism about the holiday season and many of our top tenants are doing very well such as TJX Costco Home Depot Burlington Ross Stores et cetera.
Many of these tenants are continuing to substantially increase their store counts.
Restaurants in particular are expanding in great numbers led by the relatively new fast casual category which includes Panera Bread Chipotle Chick-Fil-A and Smashburger.
While Kimco like several of our peers is beginning to invest very selectively in several ground-up developments new supply is expected to remain muted for several more years and retail space per capita in the U.S has actually declined slightly.
While ecommerce continues to impact brick and mortar retailers most large retailers have found effective ways to blend their growing ecommerce business with their store operations.
The Omni-channel concept is a reality and most of us landlords smiled recently as we read that Amazon plans to open a new retail showroom in New York City.
In terms of our overall strategy we continue to implement our TSR initiatives transformation simplification and redevelopment.
Glenn and Conor will cover the specifics but we are on track in terms of selling our Tier 2 properties and selectively adding high quality property acquisitions.
Our redevelopment pipeline also continues to grow with new acquisitions and as rising rents make more projects economically feasible.
In Mexico we are working very hard to close our last large portfolio sale which is under contract and which we hope to close in late November.
We also have one property remaining in Chile which is under a letter of intent.
All of our other properties in Chile Peru and Brazil have now been sold.
Canada remains a strong and consistent contributor to our earnings with excellent FFO returns despite the soft Canadian dollar.
Occupancy and same side metrics excluding currency are very solid and property values are at very high historical levels.
There are also several significant redevelopment opportunities in the Canadian portfolio which we are evaluating with our Canadian partners particular RioCan.
And now I’d like to turn to Glenn to outline our specific financial results for the quarter to be followed by Conor’s discussion of portfolio results with Milton batting cleanup.
.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our solid third quarter performance is the result of continued execution of our stated strategy.
The significant transformation of our portfolio is producing excellent operating metrics highlighted by strong same side NOI growth positive leasing spreads and a further lift to our occupancy levels.
We’ve also made significant progress on the simplification front.
Let me provide some color on the quarterly results.
As we reported last night FFO was adjusted per diluted share which represents recurring FFO and excludes transactional income and expenses and non-operating impairments was $0.36 as compared to $0.33 last year a 9.1% increase.
The primary drivers of the growth are attributable to higher NOI delivered by the shopping center of portfolio coupled with low interest and G&amp;A expenses.
FFO as adjusted for the 9 months stands at $1.05 per share.
Based on our expectations for the full year we are tightening our FFO as adjusted per share guidance range to a $1.38 to $1.40 from a $1.36 to $1.40.
The midpoint of the guidance range will represent a 4.5% annual growth rate a solid result considering the $0.04 diluted impact of disposing of higher cap rate assets including InTown Suites our Mexico assets and many of the non-strategic assets sold while using the proceeds to acquire high quality U.S assets in our key target market at lower cap rates.
Headline FFO which represents the official NAREIT definition for the third quarter was $0.39 per diluted share which includes $11.7 million of transactional income primarily from the receipt of a cash distribution in excess of the investments basis and certain land sale gains.
Headline FFO per share for the 9 months is a $1.07.
As requested by NAREIT in addition to our FFO as adjusted per share guidance we are providing full year Headline guidance for 2014 with a per share range of $1.42 to $1.45.
U.S occupancy has increased to 95.5% up 50 basis points for the quarter and up 60 basis points year-to-date.
The bulk of the increase is attributable to positive net absorption with minimal impact from acquisitions and dispositions.
Overall occupancy including Canada and Latin America is now 95.3% also up 50 basis points for the quarter and 80 basis points since the beginning of the year.
We are increasing our overall occupancy guidance for 2014 to up 80 to a 100 basis points from our previous guidance of 50 to 75 basis points.
The closely watched metric of same site NOI growth is very strong at 4.9% in the US bringing the year-to-date U.S same site NOI growth to 3.1%.
The drivers of this same site NOI growth for the third quarter were strong minimum rent increases providing 370 basis points of the growth and better credit loss performance contributing 60 basis points.
Overall same site NOI growth including Canada and South America was 4.8% excluding the negative impact from currency of 60 basis points.
The improving third quarter results bring overall same site NOI growth for the 9 months to 3.3% excluding the negative 80 basis points impact from currency.
We are tightening our 2014 same site NOI guidance range to 2.75% to 3.5% from 2.5% to 3.5%.
The transformation of our portfolio is in its final stage.
During the quarter we completed the disposition of 24 U.S assets generating proceeds of $192 million and recognized non-FFO gains of $91 million.
Subsequent to quarter end we sold an additional 17 properties providing another $104 million in proceeds.
We have made tremendous progress on the simplification front.
During the quarter we sold three properties in Mexico for $110 million and have a contract on nine other Mexican assets which we expect to close by year end.
Subsequent to quarter end we completed our exit from Peru and expect to sell the remaining assets in Chile shortly.
We remain on target to substantially complete our south of the border exit by the end of the year.
As a reminder only upon substantial liquidation of an investment in a foreign country can the impact of foreign currency translation gains or losses be recognized in earnings.
As of September 30 the unrealized loss due to currency associated with our Mexico and remaining South America assets was $127 million.
This amount will fluctuate with changes in foreign exchange rates and the final impact of currency will not affect FFO at the time it is realized as it will apply to the respective gains and losses on the assets sold.
Continuing with the simplification theme we reduced the number of joint venture properties by 19 during the quarter with the acquisition of 10 assets from SEB which now wholly owned and the sale of nine properties from the (inaudible) DRA and Mexican joint ventures.
We recognize the change of control gain which is not included in FFO of $14.4 million relating to the SEB assets acquired.
Subsequent to quarter end we acquired seven properties from the joint venture with BIG and sold eight other properties from this joint venture.
Overall we have reduced our joint venture properties from its peak of 552 properties to 342 properties today a reduction of over $3 billion of gross real estate investment.
On the balance sheet front our debt metrics and liquidity position remained in excellent shape with net debt to recurring EBITDA at 5.6 times and over $1.4 billion of immediate liquidity available.
Lastly we are pleased to announce that based on our 2014 performance our board of directors has approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.24 per quarter up from $0.22.50 per quarter an increase of 6.7% on an annualized basis.
Our FFO payout ratio will remain conservative in the mid 60% range among the lowest in our peer group.
And now I’ll turn over to Conor.
Thanks Glenn.
Good morning everyone.
Today I’ll update our progress on acquisitions and depositions and then cover the operating metrics.
Finally I will recap the redevelopment progress for quarter.
Three major themes emerged this quarter.
First the demand for U.S real estate is robust with private REITs public REITs international funds private equity and high net worth individuals seeking out the safety and consistency in a volatile marketplace.
This demand is driving cap rates lower and a disconnect exists on the pricing of an asset in the open market versus what is currently reflected in the net asset values in the public markets.
Second in the small shop retailer specifically the service sector is coming back to open air shopping centers in a higher than anticipated rate accounting for 92% of the new leases signed this quarter.
And third multifamily development continues to push land prices higher.
While this limits retail ground up development opportunities it is beginning to result in future redevelopment opportunities where we can take an existing open air center and potentially add a mixed use component to create more value for the long term Kimco shareholder.
We continue to position the Kimco portfolio to take advantage of the urbanization effect.
As outlined in our press release we acquired our partner SEB’s interests in 10 grocery anchored centers primarily located in dense mid-Atlantic markets.
After the close of the quarter we completed the acquisition of our partner BIG’s interest in seven properties while selling them our ownership in eight properties.
This creative portfolio split adds six grocery anchored centers to our wholly owned portfolio.
Six of these seven properties are located in California and one in Long Island.
These two transactions continue our simplification strategy by reducing the number of properties in joint ventures in addition to increasing the percentage of assets with a grocery component to 64.4% up from prior year end of 58.6%.
Since the beginning of the year we have acquired 32 properties out of our joint venture platform with a gross value in excess of $970 million making up the bulk of acquisitions so far this year.
While we continue to analyze and track high quality opportunities in the open market within our key territories we remain disciplined due to historic low cap rates and a plethora of capital chasing high quality deals.
We will continue to mine for acquisitions with redevelopment opportunities but anticipate being a net seller in the fourth quarter.
Turning to dispositions during the third quarter we sold our ownership interest in 24 U.S properties 17 wholly owned and seven held in joint ventures totaling 2.4 million square feet for a gross sales price of $263 million including $35 million of mortgage debt.
The implied cap rate for these assets is a blended 7.5% and the company share of the proceeds from these sales was $205.4 million.
Cap rate compression across all quality levels continues as investors large and small domestic and international are seeking safety in U.S real estate.
We continue to execute on our stated strategy of transforming the portfolio by selling the lower quality and flat assets.
So far this year we have sold 50 properties in the US at a blended 7.8% cap rate.
We continue to take advantage of the ideal market conditions to exit our noncore assets.
We anticipate a similar pace of dispositions to close up the year and are on track to complete the transformation and enhance the Kimco portfolio by the end of 2015.
Dispositions this quarter included triple net JV portfolio a former K-mart boxes that we repositioned with national big box retailers and sold to a public REITs.
In addition the former Frank’s Nursery triple net portfolio in the mid-Atlantic has been repositioned with national junior anchors and sold to a private real estate company.
Both of these portfolios were 100% occupied and sold into the hyper competitive triple net market.
We will continue to bring other flat triple net properties to the market alongside noncore assets and continue to guide towards a blended eight cap for the year on our dispositions.
While the inventory of available spaces continue to diminish in the retail sector our leasing team is undaunted as it produces an impressive velocity of deals filling up the sparse amount of vacancies and replacing expiring leases at higher rents.
In the third quarter we signed 188 new leases for a total of 843 000 gross square feet.
The impact was evident as our U.S occupancy rose 50 basis points to 95.5% driven by positive net absorption.
Significant to note is that while our anchor occupancy is now at a striking 98.2% up 40 basis points from last quarter and 80 basis points from the same quarter last year it has been our small shop occupancy which has soared in 2014.
Non-anchor occupancy is now up to 87% up 70 basis points from last quarter and 230 basis points from the same quarter last year.
This growth has been driven by both disposition and positive net absorption.
We are seeing a healthy return of local mom-and-pop businesses mixed with national retailers and franchisors.
We executed 173 small shop deals in the third quarter 53% of which were pure mom-and-pops retailers.
Once again the population of small shop leases was heavy on service based industries such as restaurants saloons and spas personal fitness and medical practices.
36 restaurant leases were executed this quarter with 20 of the 36 being mom-and-pops tenants.
The other small shop uses driving occupancy include 12 medical leases 11wireless communication stores seven hair salons seven nail salons and four reals estate related services.
Health and wellness is now a fixture in the open air shopping center industry as we continue to expand relationships with national and regional tenants such as Aspen dental The Joint Chiropractic Orange Theory Fitness Hand and Stone Massage Massage Envy Phoenix Salons and Salons by JC.
Another interesting trend is the recovery in the real estate service sector.
Examples this quarter include deals with Sotheby's Realty and Stuart Title.
The average base rent on the small shop portfolio is now $23.96 up $0.67 year to date.
Our new leasing spreads were a healthy 10.2% driven by positive spreads for all tenant types including junior anchors mid shop and small shops.
The average ramp per square foot for new leases in the third quarter was $16.98 26% above our portfolio average base rent.
Renewal and option spreads were 6.4%.
Interesting to note that for the past two quarters our renewal spreads have been higher than our option spreads indicating a jump in market rents.
Our combined leasing spreads were 7.1%.
The positive impact redevelopment activity is having on the portfolio can be seen in the measurable improvements by a number of our key metrics most notably same-site NOI where 35% of the growth was attributed to sites with redevelopment projects this quarter.
In the third quarter seven projects were completed with a gross cost of $12.5 million adding incremental NOI of $942 000 for an ROI of 13.3%.
Completed projects this quarter include Glenn Square where we redeveloped a large portion of the sites in anchorage Alaska for Bass Pro.
After we positioned the asset it was sold post quarter end marking our exit from the Alaska market.
Again we remain committed to operating a focused yet national portfolio.
Seven more projects were promoted to the active status this quarter with total gross cost of $9.5 million and a targeted ROI of 12.2%.
We are continuing to expand our redevelopment pipeline and this quarter added over $200 million of new projects to the pipeline.
Currently our pipeline totals gross cost of over $1.1 billion up from $919 million last quarter.
We now have $324 million or 28% of active redevelopment projects $596 million or 52% under design and entitlement review and $230 million or 20% in the evaluation phase.
Our retailer portfolio reviews reinforced the demand for high quality real estate and a significant lack of products in the market today.
The supply and demand dynamic is creating a huge demand for high quality redevelopment projects at proven intersections.
The value generation at these projects is twofold as we have created incremental NOI but we have also added credit tenants and in many cases added a grocery component that further compresses the cap rate on the entire asset leading to a higher net asset value.
We now have four former K-Mart boxes that are active redevelopments three in Florida and one in Saint Louis where we are demolishing the old boxes and adding tenants such as Whole Foods TJX and Ross.
Two of these were negotiated early termination.
Analyzing the best use of our capital in the current environment continues to have all roads lead to redevelopment.
In closing I’m encouraged by the progress we have made on our stated strategy as we see it begin to produce results.
As a bottom up real estate Company our passion is to showcase the strength of our people and our real estate.
The entrepreneurial culture at Kimco continues to create value for our shareholders and with a laser focus on what we do best we are seeing it bear fruit.
And with that I will turn it over to Milton.
Thanks Conor.
I will be very very brief since our numbers speak for themselves.
I’m pleased as punch over our team’s performance for this quarter.
We are executing and delivering on all metrics and I believe that our transformation has greatly elevated the quality of our portfolio.
As a result I’m convinced that our portfolio is not only much more resilient to downturns but that we have to lay the foundation to much stronger long term upside.
But what is most most important is Kimco’s talented team of passionate professionals.
They are the principle source of my optimism for our future.
And with that we are happy to take any questions.
We’re ready to move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We request that you respect the limit of one question so all callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to rejoin the queue.
Gary you may take the first caller.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Given the near term completion of the Latin American portfolio sales I'm wondering how the dispositions for 2015 will look in total when we compare them to 2014.
Craig it’s Glenn.
I would say that the amount of disposition that you’ll see next year will be significantly less probably by about half.
Disposition so far including Latin America they’re in excess of $1.1 billion $1.2 billion so far.
So it will probably be less than half of that next year primarily obviously focused on finishing up the U.S dispositions that we’ve target.
And are you seeing a lowering of cap rates on the stuff you're selling as well as the stuff you're looking to acquire? Yes we are seeing it compress across all levels.
It's pretty apparent that cap rates continue to drift lower regardless of quality.
And part of that is driven by the financing being available for even the secondary assets out there.
The CMBS market is back I think the estimates are that there will be 100 billion of CMBS done this year.
That’s helping us dispose of the secondary assets.
The next question comes from Christine McElroy with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Looking at expected same-store NOI growth in Q4 would you expect another big impact from redevelopment? And Conor as you laid out the redevelopment pipeline and everything you're working on what sort of impact should we expect on a go-forward basis over the next year on same-store growth from redevelopment? Yes it’s a good question.
Re-development definitely has become a bigger impact on the same site NOI figure and we anticipate that to continue.
As we’ve shown we’ve tried to ramp up the redevelopment pipeline.
So as we see the deliveries come online that’s where you are going to see it have the biggest impact on our same site NOI.
So Q4 we do anticipate to have another call it a third of an impact on the same site NOI figure.
And we continue to see that being the case going forward as we deliver projects and continue to add new projects to the pipeline.
The next question comes from Paul Morgan with MLV.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just sticking with the redevelopments two things.
First you have roughly the dollar volume of capital that was invested that translates into that 170 basis point impact and then you added if I got this right a couple hundred million dollars to the pipeline this quarter I think you said.
Maybe that's a pretty big change.
What was the catalyst there? Do you have any examples of some of the things that got added? Yeah there were -- that’s a good question.
There were two large projects that were added and that become active that was added.
One was a termination with K- Mart in Orlando of a redevelopment project that became active and we have a signed lease with PGA to take a portion of the box and we’re negotiating with two junior anchors to take the remaining portion of that asset.
And then a large that we actually enhance the scale and size of a redevelopment that’s under entitlement right now which is Highland Plaza which is located in Staten Island.
We’ve elected to make that a much larger redevelopment project and add more density there.
We also added both sides of scale to our Pentagon project which is also under entitlement.
And we are negotiating shipping entitlements what was previously entitled as an office redevelopment we are now switching it to apartments and we are adding size and scale to that property as well.
So those are the three major movers.
Did you have the other part? We’ll have to get back to you to get you a specific amount of what was invested that generated the 170 basis point increase in same site.
That's just not sitting here our fingertips.
The next question comes from and please pardon me for any mispronunciation Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
That's okay Operator.
It's not the first time but I appreciate your effort.
Hey guys.
My question is you've done quite a bit this year in the portfolio transformations.
So I'm curious on how you'd grade yourself on the execution on the pace the pricing versus your expectations a year ago.
Have they come in on target better pricing better pace? I guess should we assume that going forward your transactions will be more opportunistic in nature now that the bulk of the work is done as you mentioned earlier in your call? Do you have any specific strategic goals perhaps increasing NOI or exposure in certain areas of the country as we look into potential investments for 2015 and beyond? I guess let’s take them one at a time.
If you recall we decided early this year to accelerate the disposition.
So we give ourselves high marks for actually accelerating the pace of what we’ve done.
And we’ve been able to move a lot of assets out into immediately a good market to sell assets.
So we think we’ve taken good advantage of the window that’s opened to sell assets.
And as buyers get frustrated for the A assets there are looking at the B assets in some of these secondary cities.
So we’ve been able to play well into that.
So I think we’d give ourselves a high grade for that.
In terms of recycling the capital that’s coming in we’ve always been very selective about what we are buying in a market where prices are quite high.
And that’s why many of our acquisitions have been from our existing joint ventures where we know the assets and we can save money both with assumption fees and brokerage fees and transfer costs and things like that by negotiating with our institutional partners who in many case have made a nice profit anyway on these assets.
We’ve been selective.
We know it’s a good time to be careful in buying assets.
We do like to try to go after assets that have redevelopment upsides.
So that’s one of the things we look at in an era of low cap rates that’s what we are trying to do.
As we get to the end and we think by the end of ‘15 we’ll be largely done the disposition program.
So we will have a Tier 1 portfolio if you will that we are very proud of.
So the amount of recycling capital will slow down.
And on the strategic investments I think you will continue to see us acquire in our key territories.
Boston portfolio this year was a good example of something that we think we can add significant value to and is actually performing ahead of even our own expectations.
And then you will see us acquire more adjacent parcels where that we can add significant density to our existing portfolio and play off of assets that we know and love and can use that as to grow our redevelopment pipeline.
The next question come from Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
I just had a question on small shops.
You said that mom-and-pop small shop demand was up quite a bit.
I'm wondering if that is truly a change in demand or if it's a change in leasing strategy whereas you're leasing to those folks now but potentially you were looking for different tenants before.
And then maybe also on the same topic if you can break down the organic leasing in small shops versus the portfolio change with dispositions.
It’s a good question.
The actual -- we have actually been targeting both the national franchises as well as the small shop operators because I think it’s important as you look at your offering in your shopping center that you try and offer something that lends itself to the local community that’s also a little different than the normal names you see in every single strip center that you drive by.
It’s a strategy of ours that we think it adds a little something extra to connect to the local community.
It’s more of a demand function and we really have been pushing that and believe that that’s a nice way to add an additional offering to our shopping center.
In terms of the breakdown of the occupancy versus dispositions it was about half and half in terms of the small shop occupancy on what was pure net absorption versus disposition.
One of the catalysts for small shops coming back in our opinion is the community banking system has gotten more aggressive about lending to local businesses.
They’ve now recovered nicely from the recession.
So they are a little more aggressive about letting a jewelry store expand to a second store or a drycleaner expand to a second and so forth.
And also as housing recovers a little bit the home equity lines of credit are being increasingly available.
Our sources of capital now too for the mom-and-pops to grow again.
The next comes from Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
A couple of questions relating to redevelopment of that pipeline that you talked about Conor.
With a combination of declining cap rates on transactions and apparently very high yields on your redevelopment appears that there’s a very significant value creation opportunity here.
In the supplement it is indicated that the range of yields on redevelopment is from a low of 8.5 to a high of 16 or so.
And I think on the projects that were completed this quarter you talked about a number in the middle of that.
I just wonder from the standpoint of calculating value creation is that 12% to 13% number a number on average that you think is fair to use going forward? And the second part of the question is you’ve talked about multifamily potentially being inserted or combined with some of these developments.
Does the range of yield that you are talking about include any multifamily products? I would guide you that on average it will be closer to a 10% number.
Now certain projects obviously will be higher than that.
Some will be lower as well.
On an average I would guide you to the 10% to use that.
Definitely there are a few projects within our pipeline that we have started working on that could add a multifamily.
Most of them are in the entitlement phase.
We are still analyzing all of our different elements that go into that what’s the best way to approach unlocking the most value.
And those will probably be -- depending on what tact we have for those if we go out with the ground lease to an apartment developer that will actually have a higher yield because it’s no cost for us and they will take on the construction and development risk.
Or if we decide to do something different that might also alter the returns there.
I think blended as a 10 is still the best way to model our future redevelopment pipeline.
The nest question comes from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Are you seeing any influx of interest from traditional mall tenants in space at your centers? We have.
That’s been a trend that’s been really been occurring now for probably a few years as it’s happening across all grades of malls.
So the A malls are getting to a point where their occupancy costs are so high that they have now started to test the waters in terms of shifting over to open air shopping centers that are surrounding the mall to see if they can see the sales transfer and still make the business make sense.
The B malls clearly have come under a lot of pressure and there’s now less leverage from the Simons of the world to be able to I guess keep the B mall tenants in place where they have them in A malls.
In order to keep them in the B malls they have that type of leverage over them.
So we are starting to see that as well as I would say outlet tenants.
Outlet tenants have now started to migrate as well to the open air shopping center.
We’ve seen that in one of our assets where we just recently did a Talbot's outlet as well a Chico’s outlet.
So you are starting to see a blend come from multiple different disciplines and it's really benefiting the open air shopping center in our opinion.
Who's the most prolific taker of space Conor? Gap is one that clearly is interested in moving and they’ve seen that that’s worked for them in the past.
So they would be probably the most active of that.
And there’s Torrid is also active and a few others that -- the jewelers that come out of the malls as well seems to see some nice sales transfer.
The next question comes from Ryan Peterson with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just one question.
Given the retrenchment of the tenure recently have you guys noticed any change in behavior from your JV partners either more willing to sell their stakes to you or the reverse no longer interested in selling them back? Not really.
We’ve been proactive about talking with our institutional partners and the ones that have been game to talk we are continuing to talk.
And as we’ve mentioned in prior calls we have certain JV partners that are long term holders and are not interested.
I think with interest rates trending down yet again it just shows that cap rates continue to drift down for particularly the very best properties.
Valuations are up and there’s just a lot of interest in real estate as a hard asset and is something that yields comparatively well with other alternatives.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with Sun Trust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question on Sears.
Could you just provide a little bit of a status report on how your dialogue is going on with Sears and maybe talk a little bit about how many boxes you expect to get back in the reasonable future? One thing I noticed in your disclosure was that it seems like you provided some sub lease disclosure in your footnotes regarding Sears maybe doing some of their own sub leasing to other retailers if you could talk about that as well.
Thank you.
Hi this is Ray Edwards.
Kimco has about 30 sites with Sears and K-mart.
The interesting thing is of them over half of them they have lease expiration coming up in the next three to five years.
For us we also have an additional benefit that three or four locations which are in terrific locations they have no further options for example Staten Island.
We have one in LA.
We're very excited about our opportunity with those sites.
Over the years we've had a lot of dialogue with K-mart and Sears regarding opportunities.
We did a few years ago do a site in Pompano Beach with them where we bought back the location.
We've done that.
We are talking to them about some other sites as well.
We are actually working with them in a joint venture on an old product service center that we rezoned as potential development site that we've been partners with them for five or six years.
So we go back a long way with Sears in trying to seek opportunities with them.
Currently I think our average rent for the K-mart is about $5.30 a foot.
So it's a very low rent.
We see a lot of upside in a number of our centers.
But on the flip side for Sears they do have a couple of locations with us that do great sales.
While they are closing stores I think about 140 or so in this fiscal year most of them through lease expirations that they've had a couple deals that they've done.
But they are trying to trim their properties but we have sites with them like we have in Bridge Hampton we're doing terrific sales.
That is a great location that will be very difficult to get back for us but there are other opportunities for us in the marketplace and we're talking to them about some sites to see if we can do some transactions.
It's an open dialogue.
This is something that’s been going on for a long period of time and we continue to see them try to sub lease positions where they can get a nice spread on their existing rent.
And then where we have tenants lined up we continue to talk to them about potential termination agreements.
So we continue to keep the open dialogue and think they will be more coming as we believe it’s a nice pipeline of future redevelopment opportunities for us.
You said of the half that's coming due in three to five years they don't have options on those? On four or five they don't have any options.
The others they do but some of those stores it's very possible we could work out a deal for them not to exercise their option if we have a redevelopment opportunity on them.
Obviously they are very flexible about sites and where they want to be in five years.
The next question comes from Linda Tsai with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
The dynamic that you described on why traditional A and B mall tenants are moving into shopping centers would you consider this a secular trend that is likely not to reverse any time soon? And then just secondarily do you see an overall pop in traffic when you introduce these traditional mall-based tenants? It’s tough to know if it’s going to reverse itself.
I think that at the current state of where we are in the real estate environment there’s become -- I think our open air shopping centers have become really the preference for millennials and for others because they enjoy the campus type of environment.
As that trend occurs maybe that will continue but again it’s hard to know whether or not it’s going to reverse itself.
Right now we think that our suite of tenants that we deal with on a day to day basis are extremely healthy and are growing and you can see that their sales continue to perform well.
We think that as we add different types of mall tenants to that it will enhance the surrounding retail and it will bring a nice dynamic to our shopping centers.
But again it’s tough to know if it will reverse.
And then you have to keep it in perspective on the numbers.
There’s about 115 000 neighborhood and community shopping centers and about 1 000 malls.
It’s not like the 1 000 malls and the tenants in those 1 000 malls make a huge dramatic shift into 115 000 properties.
You’ve just got to keep it in some perspective.
And then the traffic? The traffic as I said it does enhance our property if we can bring something different to the table.
It’s nice to be able to mix and match an offering with a Nordstrom Rack of the world but then with also a potential jeweler from an enclosed mall that will enhance the surrounding retail.
You really want to look at what the local community is in need of and then provide it to them with the best offering of choice.
The next question is from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
It's Jeremy.
I'm just wondering now that you sold a lot of your lower tier assets and your occupancy is back above 95% should we see the releasing spreads move into double digit territory next year and what is the current mark-to-market for the portfolio? It’s a good point we definitely have because I would say close to stabilized occupancy in our anchor pipeline.
That being said we do have over 40 anchor leases coming due in the next year without options that we believe are below market.
The average base rent on those boxes is well below our anchor average base rent.
We still believe our upside is significant because of our below market rents due to the history of the company being a long term owner of shopping centers.
We still have some of these K-marts that average base rents of $5 a foot.
As we mark-to-market that we think there’s still a significant embedded upside.
The next question is follow up from Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
In David's prepared comments he talked particularly about the demand growth from restaurants and restaurants haven't been as big of a factor in your tenant list as is the case with some of your peers.
I'm just wondering to what extent we can expect that to change whether this is material or whether this is just at the margin.
If it does change to what extent are these deals more TI intensive? I think it’s more of a set the margin right now.
The restaurants are definitely still a large portion of the retailer world that’s taking space.
They are very aggressive on upfront parcels.
They have taken almost a role of financial institutions or banks that used to be the highest payer for the upfront parcel.
When those pads become available it’s usually a bidding frenzy between the Chick-fil-A's of the world and others that really want that upfront visibility as well as drive-throughs.
You are seeing that continue and I would say that if you look over a longer period you’ll see that restaurants continue to be a more substantial part of the portfolio.
And where they take in-line space are the TI dollars significantly higher? Some will take in-line space.
Panera Bread is a good example where we’ve been successful in putting them on end caps and putting them in a location where typically pad users wouldn’t locate.
But again they have also changed their model a little bit now because Panera is now wanting to include a drive-through.
So it just depends on the strength of the real estate that if they want to be in the location bad enough they typically tend to change their model and make it work.
TIs I think is something that restaurants are definitely the heaviest in terms of Tis.
It goes -- typically when we have a bake and restaurant we obviously target to replace it with another restaurant so the TIs aren’t as heavy.
But when you do a new build out there is no question about it they’re the heaviest in TIs.
But the pricing power is there also from the landlord side.
We are able to get good rents to offset that.
Okay very good.
Many of the pad users many of the restaurants that want the pads typically prefer to ground lease.
So the Chick-fil-A's of the world those are typically ground leases where the landlord costs are minimal.
It’s just pad prep.
The next question comes from Lina Rudashevski with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi there.
I was just wondering when you look to 2015 how do you think net investment activity will compare to this year? Net investment activity again we think that our disposition side will be significantly less.
The acquisition side will probably be less also.
Again this year when you look at all the acquisition activity we’ve acquired on a gross close to $1.2 billion primarily buying out joint venture partners.
I would guess that it’s also going to be scaled back unless there’s a great acquisition that’s very very accretive.
Again the cap rate environment is very challenging today.
Everything is very very expensive and we are looking for assets that have real upside growth in them.
Tough to find so when we look at it say I would expect it to be somewhat muted than what we’ve seen this year.
And as rents continue to increase that redevelopment pipeline we have will continue to increase and that’s our first choice of where we deploy capital.
I would just add we always get our fair share of acquisitions.
We seem to be able to continue to leverage our relationships in our long standing history whether it’s through with retailers or whether it’s through with owners both public and private.
We continue to find our fair share of acquisitions and we still have quite a bit of JV opportunities that we think we can harvest next year.
Okay.
And by what magnitude do you think the pace might decrease? Again it’s tough to tell.
I would think that the -- again on the disposition side.
I think it will be somewhere around half.
Opportunities come and go.
So on the acquisition side it’s a little tough to tell.
We haven’t finished remodeling out what we expect to attempt to acquire.
But what we’ve been doing is to the extent that we have sold assets and raised whatever capital we’ve been redeploying that primarily focused on putting it into our redevelopment programs some new developments that we’re targeting and then where we can be the buyer of a joint venture partner or buy one-off assets.
Tough to figure.
Thank you.
I would just add that it is opportunity driven and at the current market we prefer not to issue equity.
We try to self-fund our developments and acquisitions because we think we‘re still trading at a discount.
So to me that is critical in terms of continuing to push our internal portfolio to the next level by redevelopment and continuing to enhance it.
The next question comes from Tammi Fique with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just following up on the redevelopment discussion.
What are the per square foot capital requirements for releasing the anchor boxes like the K-marts that you discussed? And then maybe along those same lines what are the expected yields on those projects? Are they within that 10% range that you discussed? Thank you.
The average cost range on the K–marts boxes depending on obviously the tenants that are going in because many times we are demolishing it and starting from scratch.
So it can range from$70 to $100 a foot depending on the tenant fit out and the amount of spaces that you are chopping off to really reposition it.
The point is that we do have to divide the box or we’re not.
Okay and then the yield – From a yield standpoint again we are not doing them if they are only going to yield3% or 4%.
We really are focused on doing this redevelopments where they are going to yield 8% plus.
Yeah.
To that point we sold two K-marts this quarter where we thought the average base rent was above market and we thought there was limited upside.
So we elected to move out of them.
.
The next question comes from Greg Schweitzer of DB.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just going back to some of the leasing trends on the mall type tenants what sort of rents have you been getting versus the $23 small shop ABI average? Sorry.
Could you repeat that? The mall -- which tenants? On the mall type tenants what sort of rents have you been able to achieve versus the average small shop rent in the portfolio? The mall tenants yeah they definitely have been paying significantly higher because they are used to mall type rents.
That’s the beauty of it.
They can still reduce their occupancy cost but as a whole when retailers look at their rents it's more of an all-in number.
They’re looking at their triple nets as well.
So our triple nets comparing to the mall triple nets are much much lower.
When you look at the all-in comparison they can continue to pay pretty high rents in the 25 to 30 but triple nets are lower.
So an all-in occupancy cost is still achievable for them in terms of transfer.
Okay.
Then with the continued traction that you've made on the small shop side particularly with the mom-and-pops any update on where you see overall small shop occupancy over the next one to two years? Yeah.
Our goal is 90% which I think is very much achievable as they continue to trend and the pace continues.
We’re very very focused on that and it’s something that we are geared off to to try and achieve.
We’ve been a leasing company for a long long time and this is what we do best.
So I think we are well positioned to take advantage of that.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Garry.
To everyone that participated on our call today as a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental that’s also posted to our website.
Have a good day today.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Dan.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry CEO; Conor Flynn President and Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen our CFO as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that may differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our Web site.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We are very happy to top-off a great year with solid fourth quarter financial results and operating metrics.
Our strong portfolio of fundamentals were led by same-site NOI growth exceeding 4% for the second straight quarter and reaching our highest portfolio occupancies since early 2008.
Small shop occupancy also showed a sharp increase as local stores and small national retailers recover from the recession and proceed with their expansion plans.
While retailers in general achieved mixed results in 2014 discounters and service-oriented tenants such as health clubs and restaurants continue their aggressive growth in the phase of a shrinking inventory of retail space.
As a result effective rents are climbing in our portfolio and across the entire open air shopping center sector.
Lower gas prices accelerating household formation and continued limited development activity all bode well for the shopping center industry fundamentals in 2015.
The omni-channel sales approach is increasingly being embraced by national retailers with e-commerce success depending on brick and mortar stores providing market presence product showrooms and fulfillment capabilities.
Amazon and many other Internet retailers will indeed be leasing retail space in the coming years.
Glenn and Conor will cover many of the financial and operating specifics in their comments today.
But I would like to highlight several prominent successes.
First we have now essentially completed our exit from Latin America with favorable cap rates somewhat offset by declining currency exchange rates.
Second after lengthy negotiations we reached agreement and on Monday closed and acquired the remaining 2/3rds ownership of the Kimco Blackstone portfolio of 39 high-quality retail properties.
And finally early last week Kimco together with its consortium partners led by Cerberus completed the acquisition and merger and of Safeway with Albertsons and various other prominent grocers including Shaw's Jewel ACME and United Supermarkets comprising more than 2 200 stores.
Kimco will hold slightly less than 10% of the merged operating companies and related real estate approximately 50% of which is owned real-estate.
As outlined in our earnings release we have also substantially upgraded our U.S.
portfolio with disposition of 91 shopping centers in 2014 while also acquiring 60 high-quality properties during the same period.
While our recycling and upgrading strategy is not unique the scale of our actions in 2014 exceeded our peers and the resulting improved demographics and rent metrics of our portfolio are substantial noteworthy and promised to deliver excellent future growth.
Looking at our Canadian operations and responding to related inquiries our occupancy remains very strong at 96% and we are fortunate to have the full guarantee of Targets U.S.
parent for all nine of our Targets stores in Canada.
Canadian Tire Cosco Wal-mart Home Depot and Metro Grocery stores have all expressed interest in some of our target locations.
And it is quite possible that we will end up with stronger tenants and a significant financial settlement from Target USA.
Separately while the lower Canadian dollar does impact property level NOI we estimate $0.02 for 2015 at current levels.
Our initial investment in Canada remains hedged through Canadian dollar mortgages on the individual properties and our Canadian dollar denominated bonds.
In addition our local operating partners continue to do an excellent job leasing and managing the properties.
Property values and prices also remain at historic high levels in Canada due to strong demand from pension funds and other institutional investors.
During the quarter as Glenn will note we monetized one more Canadian preferred equity investment at a substantial gain.
Overall and moving forward across our entire portfolio it is clear that our emphasis will be on investing capital in our own properties through redevelopment and expansions complemented with several selective new ground-up projects.
Conor will discuss in detail these plans but we are pleased with our progress in growing this pipeline and the associated accretive economics.
The third-party acquisition market for high-quality properties is heated and very competitive.
As a result wherever possible we continue to purchase the equity interest of our institutional partners when they choose to monetize their investments.
In these situations we have a distinct advantage due to our knowledge and long-term management of the assets coupled with a potential savings in terms of transfer taxes brokerage fees and mortgage assumption costs.
Given the portfolio upgrade we have completed to-date an improving industry fundamentals.
We feel very positive about 2015.
Now I would like to turn to Glenn and Conor with Milton batting clean-up as usual.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our theme from our December 2013 Investor Day was TSR Plus transformation simplification redevelopment and activities from our Plus business.
We have successfully executed all these initiatives throughout the year and we are proud that our TSR Plus strategy delivered a TSR total shareholder return of 32.4% for 2014.
Now some to details on our fourth quarter and full year results and some additional color on our 2015 guidance range.
As we reported last night headline FFO per diluted share which represents the official NAREIT definition was $0.38 in the fourth quarter which includes the $0.03 per share of transactional income related to the monetization of several preferred equity interest in the U.S.
and Canada.
For the full year headline FFO per diluted share was $1.45 a 7.4% increase as compared to a $1.35 per share for 2013.
Our FFO was adjusted our recurring FFO which excludes non-operating impairment and transactional income and expense was $0.35 per diluted share for the fourth quarter a 6.1% increase compared to last year and brings a full year to $1.40 per share a 5.3% increase over the 2013 level of $1.33 per share and achieving the high-end of our guidance range.
It's important to note that we accomplished this despite the $0.05 per share dilutive impact of disposing of higher cap rate assets including a substantial portion of our assets in Mexico and many non-strategic U.S.
assets.
Our strong performance is the direct result of the significant portfolio transformation which is delivering solid operating metrics including fourth quarter U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 4.3% bringing the full year U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 3.3%.
Over 70% of the NOI growth is attributable to minimum rent increases.
Our combined same-site NOI growth which includes our Canadian operations was 4% for the fourth quarter and 3.3% as well for the full year excluding the negative impact of currency of 90 basis points and 80 basis points respectively.
Occupancy is approaching 96% and our leasing spreads were strong with full year leasing spreads of 19.5% and 6.3% for renewals and options bringing combined leasing spreads to 8.8% for 2014.
We continued to execute on the simplification part of our strategy.
During the fourth quarter we acquired seven assets from joint venture with Dick and sold eight other properties from this joint venture.
We also sold 23 assets in Mexico and two assets in Peru for total proceeds of $161 million and have now substantially liquidated our investment in both countries.
As previously mentioned upon substantial liquidation of an investment in a foreign country the impact of foreign currency translation is recognized in earnings.
As such we recognized a non-FFO charge of $134.3 million which was applied against the respective gains and losses on the assets sold.
This is substantially offset with non-FFO gains net impairments of $107.8 million recognized during the quarter from the sale of 66 operating properties sold generating total proceeds of approximately $420 million.
In addition as Dave mentioned we closed this week on the previously announced $925 million transaction to acquire the remaining 2/3rds interest of our joint venture with Blackstone.
The 39 properties in the venture are wholly-owned.
With regard to our balance sheet we finished the year with solid debt metrics with net debt to recurring EBITDA of 5.5x and fixed charge coverage of 3.2x the strong levels coupled with over $1.7 billion of the immediate liquidity from the availability on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand provided us the capacity to fund the Blackstone JV buyout.
Subsequent to year end we refinanced our $400 million term-loan with a new $650 million term-loan priced at LIBOR plus 95 basis points among the lowest borrowing spread in the REIT industry.
This term-loan has initial term of 2 years and 3 one-year extension options at our option with a final maturity date in 2020 providing us maximum flexibility.
Our debt maturities for 2015 are very manageable with less than $500 million of maturities and a significant portion not doing for the latter part of 2015 with an average rate of 5.2% on the maturing debt we view this as an excellent opportunity to reduce our cost of capital.
Now to some more color on the guidance for 2015.
As we discussed on our last earnings call NAREIT has been strongly advocating that all reporting companies provide guidance in accordance with the official NAREIT FFO definition as part of an effort to have an industry-wide consistency.
As such we are introducing an initial 2015 FFO per diluted share guidance range of $1.45 to $1.53 in accordance with NAREIT request.
Our initial 2015 FFO was adjusted per share guidance range is $1.42 to $1.44.
The level of growth takes into account the dilutive impact of $0.12 associated with the significant capital recycling and joint venture buyout executed during 2014.
We view 2015 as a bridge year where we absorb the impact of our transformation program in order to position the company for superior long-term earnings growth in 2016 and beyond.
In addition the guidance consists the investments made in land parcels for future development totaling over $100 million and our Plus business investments in our Supervalu and Safeway acquisitions which are currently non-earning which should provide excellent growth potential in the future.
Several of the underlying assumptions used to develop the guidance range include an overall increase in U.S.
occupancy of 25 to 50 basis points; U.S.
same property NOI growth of 3% to 3.5%; acquisitions of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion which includes the $925 million from the recently closed buyout of Blackstone; and dispositions of $550 million to $750 million.
In addition the guidance range includes a $0.02 per share negative impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar on our Canadian denominated flows.
The headline guidance ranging includes net transactional income of $20 million to $38 million which is excluded from our FFO as adjusted.
The net transactional income includes acquisition cost of $6 million.
The guidance range is sensitive to timing of acquisitions dispositions redevelopments coming online and lease-up and financing initiatives.
Our 2015 plan strongly supports our recently increased common dividend level of $0.24 per quarter which equates to an FFO pay-out ratio in the mid-60s percent range one of the lowest in the industry.
Now I will turn it over to Conor.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everyone.
Today I will give a brief summary of our portfolio metrics a quick update on acquisitions and dispositions followed by an update on redevelopments.
The fourth quarter and full year results reflect our best efforts to reposition the portfolio to a vibrant collection of high-quality high-growth assets located in dense key metro markets that have the highest growth in population wages and employment.
We are positioned to give our shareholders unmatched safety in terms of tenant and geographic diversity along side stable and recurring growth.
The U.S.
portfolio achieved an increase in occupancy of 80 basis points pro rata for the year to end at 95.7%.
The occupancy gains were primarily driven by the increase in small shop demand as the U.S.
small shop occupancy rose 280 basis points from the beginning of the year to finish at 88% pro rata an increase of 100 basis points of our prior quarter.
Resurgence in small shop leasing continues as this quarter we completed 66% of our small shop deals with local operators.
The three major categories that make up the bulk of our small shop leasing include personal care services restaurants and medical offices.
Anchor occupancy also gained 10 basis points pro rata over prior quarter to finish at 98.3%.
Leasing spreads continued to show the strong demand per space resulting in combined leasing spreads of 9.4% for the quarter.
The U.S.
same-site NOI of 4.3% for the quarter is a strong result driven by significant rent commences contractual rent increases and redevelopment is coming online.
Competition in our key markets for acquisitions continues to escalate with no end of capital chasing high-quality real estate.
Acquisitions for the fourth quarter were geared towards off-market value-added projects where we are able to leverage our strength.
Braelinn Village a Kroger anchored center in Alpharetta Atlanta suburb has expiring below-market Kmart lease that we believe as a significant redevelopment potential.
In addition we have acquired four development parcels where we plan to build and hold these long-term strong assets to create shareholder value.
One is the Whole Foods development in Wynnewood Pennsylvania that is now under construction and located on the Main Line where we continue to expand our presence along side our flagship Suburban Square asset.
The Christiana Delaware site was purchased from Sears and sits adjacent to GGPs Christiana Mall where retailers can take advantage of a tax-free environment and the site will take advantage of the significant frontage along I-95.
In Florida the Dania Beach development site sits adjacent to our dominant Oakwood Plaza.
Nearly 3 miles of frontage along I-95 that comprise these two properties will create a dynamic and signature asset.
Finally we have acquired a development parcel in Houston Texas near the Woodlands and the new Exxon-Mobil campus that fronts the new Grand Parkway.
The location of this asset is what we call a hole in the donut for retailers as they are eager to capture this new positive growth in this affluent and highly educated market.
Notwithstanding the current oil price volatility our project has generated significant retailer interest at an early stage and we expect to execute leases with anchorage tenant throughout 2015.
These four projects amount to projected gross costs of $469 million where targeted returns between 7% and 8% a measured development approach where we can take advantage of our local expertise will enable us to build upon our growing redevelopment pipeline.
For 2015 we plan to leverage our industry-leading relationships to continue to source off-market transactions.
A good example is the recently announced consolidation of the Blackstone JV in line with our stated strategy to simplify the business and further transform our portfolio; this transaction will significantly improve the wholly-owned asset base of Kimco and add a few notable redevelopment projects.
Turning to dispositions in the fourth quarter we sold 41 properties 29 wholly-owned and 12 in joint ventures for a pro rata share from these sales of $325 million.
Pricing for these Tier-2 assets continue to show improved strength as public and private capital chase deals to the very low interest environment.
For the year we completed the sales of 91 U.S.
shopping centers for a gross sales price of $1 billion including $249 million of mortgage debt.
The company's pro rata share from these sales was $710 million and the blended cap rate on our dispositions for the year was 7.5%.
We believe we are in the sweet spot for dispositions and are targeting another $600 million for dispositions in 2015 to effectively complete the transformation of the portfolio by exiting our low growth assets in secondary markets.
Our redevelopment program continues to produce significant results.
Every asset we own goes through a methodical review process that takes into account all opportunities including current and future retail and non-retail so we leave no stone unturned to help create long-term shareholder value.
Our real estate is in demand not only from our normal role at expanding retailers but also new sources including specialty grocers outlet concepts European retailers and developers of apartments medical offices and hotels.
For the year we completed 34 projects with the total gross cost of $68 million with a ROI of 13.9%.
These projects continued to improve net asset value and contributed 90 basis points to our same-site NOI this year.
As you look to 2015 we target gross projects of $200 million with a ROI of 8% to 10%.
We have made significant progress this year.
But there is still work to be done as we continue to evolve and position ourselves as the best in class capital allocator and redevelopment operation.
In this next cycle it will be imperative for us to focus on the capacity to sustain significant income growth when the interest rate environment shifts.
As we near our all time high in occupancy we will look to our redevelopment and development pipeline to generate significant recurring income growth.
The demand for space continues to outpace supply as we enter into 2015; we are cautiously optimistic due to the fundamental drivers of our industry.
Employment growth cheap gas prices and consumer confidence all combined to form a powerful shopping base in the U.S.
that is ready to ramp-up consumption especially for off-price and essential goods.
Our retailer services group continues to provide us with invaluable information and recently found that this dramatic fall in gas prices has been a boon for our grocery concepts.
We completed our strategic initiative of increasing our percentage of ABR from grocery-anchorage properties from 58% to over 65% and we will continue to push this initiative in 2015.
Our asset class is now competing at a higher level.
As we have noticed many of our retailers that straddle the line between open-air shopping centers and the enclosed mall world have been outperforming in the open-air environment.
Combining the favorable supply and demand balance in addition to the safety to U.S.
investments provide a nice runway of growth that had for owning well-located open-air centers.
As we look to 2015 our strategic goals remain focused on completing our transformation simplification and expanding our redevelopment efforts to include strategic ground-up developments.
And now I will turn it over to Milton for his closing remarks.
Well thank you Conor.
I believe that our retail estate portfolio is in a particularly sweet spot.
The decline in gasoline prices is much much more important on a relative basis to our retail tenants the super mall the drug store the off-price retailers and many other retailers that sell essential goods and service.
It's much more important to them than it is to high-end luxury retailers.
I would also note that the major department stores are opening up more off-price units than ever before.
There are 35 Nordstrom Rack stores planned over the next two years.
Hudson Bay has stated they believe the value concepts will capture much of the growth in retail over the next five years and they are accelerating their expansion of their Saks Off Fifth brand.
Even Macy's announced they will explore in off-price business in addition to their existing Bloomingdale's outlet concept.
I also believe that cap rates will continue to decline.
The spread between the 10-year treasury rate and cap rate should be narrower.
The U.S.
has the best legal system in the world for property rights.
Global investors and pension funds are increasing their allocation to U.S.
real estate which should create further demand and the dollar is getting much more respect.
At Kimco over the past year we have invested in the future growth of the company.
These investments include the Blackstone purchase a myriad of redevelopment projects and the development sites in Florida Delaware Pennsylvania and Texas.
But for me personally the most stimulating part is the bench strength of the Kimco team.
I see passion and creative ability and a fierce energy to create value.
Our team has dozens of new initiatives and programs to increase our operating income and NAV.
And with that we are happy to take any questions.
We are ready to move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
We request that you respect the limit of one question so that all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to rejoin the queue.
Dan you may take our first caller.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
As the largest shopping center REIT by market cap and coming into 2015 as a net acquirer and a potential equity issuer this sort of feels like an appropriate question for you guys.
Dave as you mentioned the private market for acquisitions is competitive.
You had a lot of success buying out JV partners in terms in the last couple of years.
But historically you have been a willing public REIT acquirer even though you haven't in recent years.
So I'm wondering what's your view on where the public REITs are trading versus private market values and is there a scenario where you would consider leveraging your equities to buy another couple of REITs? Well there is certainly a scenario we would consider it.
And we do think there continues to be a difference between properties on the private market and how us as a public company are valuing.
We think the implied cap rate of our stock is much too high compared to the high-quality properties that are being traded out there on the private markets.
So there certainly is an arbitrage that exits out there.
But as you know M&amp;A in our sector is difficult basically there is a process you end up paying their bankers your bankers their accounts your accounts.
These deals are fully shopped.
And yes we have experienced doing it.
We have done five over the last I think 15 years and we are proud of those.
And we certainly continue to look at opportunities.
We are focused however on if we do M&amp;A on portfolios that will enhance the quality of our own portfolio.
So the inventory of public portfolios out there that we attract our interest is narrower than perhaps it would have been in the past when we looked at all kinds of the yield.
So we will see what happens over time and if things become imply we certainly look.
I think it's known that we together with others looked at AmREIT which met that high-quality profile about it.
It is noteworthy that a private buyer bought it.
Acknowledging the quality bias would you have a bias towards larger format centers or smaller neighborhood centers if you were to buy a large portfolio today? Yes sure.
We prefer the larger formats.
I think it gives us a little it more redevelopment potential.
That being said we know that if we want to become a more urban portfolio that we may have to acquire some smaller parcels and then look to try and enhance that by acquiring adjacent sites around those parcels.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Regarding the guidance of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion how much of that do you think will be acquisitions from JV partners? Well again you have $925 million that we closed on already this week.
So you have the bulk of it that's done that way.
We will continue to look for some work.
But I would say that balance of its really going to be one-off transactions that we find probably on an off market basis that might be an asset or two that we can buy out.
But we have done the bulk of that heavy lifting I think go in our – buying out large joint venture partners that are willing to part with their assets that's the norm.
We continue to have some discussions with some that are interested.
So I wouldn't say it's – that we are completely finished.
But the bigger ones as we have talked – as we mentioned in the past have told us they like to hold for the long-term.
But we are talking to some of the others.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Samir Khanal of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just looking at kind of your international market today I mean you have exited pretty much all of Latin America I think most of the bulk – to dispose and that was kind of in the U.S.
of $600 million in 2015.
But with the soft Canadian currency and can that – is that a market that you kind of think about for the long-term as you kind of balance the currency risk there and possibly kind of a better opportunity to invest elsewhere? We certainly take a look at what we have in Canada and what we should do with what we have in Canada.
One of the problems we have had as we have mentioned on these calls over the years is growing what we have had properties prices up there are exceptionally high.
And we have taken advantage of it in modest ways.
We have continued to monetize our preferred equity investments while we have sold quite a few properties in Canada.
But together with some of our partners we have put properties on the market up there.
So I think it's more likely than not that you will see our exposure and our investment platform in Canada to go down over time rather than stay the same.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Samir.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan of MLV.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just and thinking in about the consolidation in office supply space where you have got more than 100 staples and office depots and as you look at that real estate I know retailers have been circling a lot of those stores for a long time.
I mean how do you think about the mark-to-market within in your portfolio? And then broadly how consolidation of that REIT might play out in terms of – is there enough term left that will be a lot of sub-lease activity or would you be able to recapture and could be a catalyst for redevelopment et cetera? Yes.
It's a good question.
The first thing to note is that the two companies will operate business as usual as they go through the FTC process.
So as we look out the next three years we have clearly 42 sites that are just coming due.
The good thing is that the boxes that these office supply users occupy are in the highest demand in terms of our shopping center space.
So 98.3% occupancy in our boxes over 10 000 square feet.
And these boxes have come up in the next three years.
They are about 10% to 15% below market.
So we do believe that they are going to analyze a strategy if they are approved by the FTC that will then clarify what their needs are going forward.
But we believe this is a nice opportunity for us to continue to add specialty grocers to our shopping centers where we can increase our percentage of ABRs from a grocery component.
And there is plenty of demand for all the TJX concepts Ross Bed Bath &amp; Beyond concepts.
If you think about these are boxes that once you add up a dynamic retailer that will cause more traffic it should have a trickle down effect that will impact and enhance the residual shopping center.
So we look at it as a net positive but at the end of the day as a landlord you are always sad to see another retailer combine because it's one left that it's going to be bidding on that space when it comes available.
So even though it's probably necessary for that sector we do like to think the more retailers is better for us.
Our next question comes from George Auerbach of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
For the fourth quarter in 2014 it looks like TIs and LCs were about 18% or so the value of your new leases in the U.S.
up from about 15% in 2013.
I guess how should we expect capital cost to trend in 2015 and 2016 on new leases.
And how do you think that impacts the cash rent spreads on your new leases relative to the call 20% spreads on new and 9% overall that you achieved in 2014.
I think that's probably a common range in terms of going forward you will still see the tenant improvement allowance and landlord work range from third quarter to fourth quarter and that is going forward for 2015.
That being said we are getting close to our stabilization point of occupancy so when new leases come in unless it's a transformative used where we are going from a soft good player to a grocery box or a say a bank branch to a restaurant that's where you really see the up tick in the cost that you need to reposition those boxes and that's probably what's driving that up tick in the fourth quarter because we did execute a number of grocery deals as well as restaurant deals.
Still going forward is 15% a better number? I think the 10% to 15% is a good range to think about.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was just wondering why 2015 is the right time to be a net acquire and what factors will lead to materially depart from your initial guidance this year? Well what I would say is we had this big opportunity to buy out our Blackstone joint venture which is over $900 million that is the bulk of it.
If you look at the balance of what we are doing we are talking about selling at a mid-point roughly $650 million of assets and acquiring on the other side of that somewhere around another $300 million to $400 million of assets.
So again as Dave mentioned you have a pretty heated market.
We are trying to find really good opportunities.
But being very disciplined about what we are acquiring.
I mean the Blackstone joint venture is the driver.
Definitely the driver and if you think about it it was a wonderful opportunity for us because there was no broker involved.
We could assume the mortgages without any additional costs.
We minimized the transfer taxes and we were able to do a negotiated transaction with Blackstone.
And so that those opportunities don't come along a lot and $900 million certainly drive us being a net acquirer in the face of very high third-party acquisition prices.
So you are right in general but it's just that the Blackstone deal fell right into this year.
I would also just add that our disposition is a lot smaller this year.
So when you think of it we are coming off of a very large disposition year and that tails off because we are nearing the completion of the repositioning.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
It's Jeremy here with Ross.
I was just wondering if you can give us a little more color on the components of your same-store growth expectations for 2015 what kind of leasing spreads are you baking in and what about expense growth and then just also how much should the development benefit 2015 results? Yes.
In our plan we anticipate redevelopments to have 25 to 40 basis point impact on our same-site NOI growth.
And on the leasing spread side we baked in high-single digits.
So pretty similar to what we saw for this year.
And on the expense side another year of 3-ish percent? Yes.
It should be pretty similar.
I mean again as Conor mentioned we were trying to get close to our stabilized level of occupancy so those costs should maintain themselves.
We'll have to see a little bit what happens with snow removal.
But outside of that it should be pretty consistent.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Peterson of Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
Thank you.
This quarter your same-site NOI redevelopment added 1.4% but you spoken of that being a lower number next year.
Is that related to lower yields on upcoming redevelopment or is that just purely timing? No.
It's not lower yield.
It's actually timing because we are talking as the redevelopment can't mature actually you take off sites that you are taking down because you have to take that income off.
So we actually have a number of assets that I talked about $200 million or so coming on line.
But then as you look at our pipeline we actually are taking off quite a bit as well.
So if you add that to the benefits it averages out to about 25 to 40 bps of improvement on same-site NOI.
Okay great.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you please talk about the land purchases without the pre-leasing and how you make that decision weighing the next got to have development versus recent history of music stopping with a lot of land on the books et cetera? No problem.
Let me walk you through them.
The first one Wynnewood Pennsylvania that was a forward commitment where we actually purchased the property with an executed Whole Foods lease.
So it was in essence a ground-up development where we had the Whole Foods lease in place before closing on the land.
And it's again in an area where we want to continue to control on the main line.
Christina Delaware that site was actually a six-year labor of love where we were actually working with Sears originally to entitle the project as a JV partner.
And then co-develop it going forward.
Well – and the entitlements obviously came to a fruition Sears did no longer wanted participate in the ground-up development process because of the cash involved.
So we were able to execute a purchase option for us and take them out of it so now we are going to be owning that 100% in developing it going forward.
We have been working in that project for a number of years as I said.
And we are very confident in the rental – the retailer interest going forward.
Grand Parkway that site again is a long – the Grand Parkway site in Houston it's in a perfect location where if you look at the spacing from all of our retailers its' really positioned nicely to take advantage of not only the new Parkway that's going to be completed but it also has the new Exxon-Mobil campus coming out of the ground and Woodland is a very affluent very highly educated pocket of population in Houston.
And I think we will really drive significant retailer interest and we have already been seeing more demand even from retailers that have been dormant for a number of years are looking at this site as a real opportunity to get a piece of this new development.
And then Dania is an adjacent site next to our 100% leased Oakwood Plaza.
This is a Fort Lauderdale Airport really a site that will own from Fort Lauderdale Airport all the way down to Highwood Florida.
So I-95 will be controlled by us really for 3 miles.
And we think we have significant synergies by controlling the adjacent parcel.
And looking at doing complementary uses that we believe will really enhance our existing position and be a signature asset for us going forward.
So each of those ground up development have a very specific story and that's why we believe it's a prudent time to step back into the ground of development process because we have been very reluctant at paying sub-5 caps for signature assets.
And if we can develop to a 7% or 8% in a key market where we know we are going to own long-term.
We think that we can control the process and feel very comfortable with – in 2017 and 2018 bringing these projects on.
All right.
That's helpful.
I will just – I'm sorry.
Let me just add one thing.
Although we – there is not a lot of actual sign pre-leases in some of these occasions before we went ahead we knew we had the tenant interest.
So we talked to tenants.
We knew exactly who wanted to go where before we went ahead with these deals.
So yes technically there is not a basket full of signed leases but we had the indications from the tenants that they wanted to be in these locations especially Houston and Dania.
All right.
That's helpful.
I'm going to miss the roller-coaster there on the 95.
How much land are you willing – no matter how good these deals are how much land are you going to put on your books at this point? I think it's a very measured approach.
I think it has to be a very compelling case like the ones we talked about.
I feel very comfortable on the staffing levels that we have.
We look to really add one signature development project per region and feel very comfortable that we are capable of creating value doing that.
So I feel we will take a very measured approach and look for compelling cases only going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just wanted to go back to the first question.
You talked about a preference for urban areas and large formats.
But just curious geographically you are looking at potentials would you stick within the current footprint or are you willing to go outside of that and if you are how are you really thinking about qualities at more demographics? Is it – what is the criteria that you are looking at there? And then I guess between grocer versus power obviously you have both any specific preference would you really mostly focus on grocery-anchor at this point which seems to be an increasing focus for you? Let me take the first one on the markets.
We very strategically identified our key markets and we want to stay to that map.
We always analyzed demographics to see if there is an additional key market that we should be interested in going forward.
But for the time being we feel very dedicated to our map and our key markets and that's where we have been focusing on both for acquisitions redevelopment and ground-up development.
And the question on the grocery versus power center we like both we actually think there is a little bit of misprice on the power center right now because of the opportunity to add a grocery component to a power center.
So if that opportunity presents itself we usually jump at it and try and work with adding a grocery component and get that cap rate compression.
I think you mentioned all the screens we would go through everything from the average rents to the particular geographic markets to the types and the size of the assets and whether there is upside in terms of redevelopment.
We have not been afraid to buy a large portfolio and then put in the two buckets a whole bucker if you will.
And a sell bucket.
So we would continue to look at mixed assortment of assets and then try to tailor to what we want long-term.
But we have spent the last couple of years deciding which markets to focus on long-term and trying to become a little more urban focused and a little more larger asset focused.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And just one question on the dispositions which you guys talked about cap rates compressing across the board and obviously now it will be more U.S.
focus in terms of assets sales maybe Canada as well.
Curious this year I think the guidance was for 8% cap rates under dispositions how are you thinking about 2015's dispositions should be – if you are thinking about 7 or less than that? I think you probably still have it on the low to mid 7s because some of its going to be the – we have a couple of assets that are still remaining in Mexico when you blended all together so a combined probably 7.5-ish range.
As long as the interest environment stays relatively stable I think we will continue to see the demand there.
So we feel pretty comfortable with that assumption.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Jim Sullivan of The Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Question for Conor regarding the footprints for the off-priced concepts and the off-priced demand that you are seeing generally.
This is really kind of a segue from Milton's comment about expanding demand from the likes of Nordstrom rack and commentary from some of the department store groups that are looking to want to take on more off-priced square feet themselves.
And also given what Neiman Marcus just agreed with Sears I just want to – Conor when you look at your Kmart boxes and the possibility for redevelopment re-tenanting.
Are you seeing off-priced because of this competitive pressure off-priced footprints expanding or not.
And as you think about the redevelopment let's say a theoretical redevelopment of Kmart box would it be your preference to do a multi-tenant approach in that box or would you be more – would you be just as happy to replace them with a single tenant? Sure.
The first one on the square footage it really depends on the discounter that you are talking about Saks Off Fifth for example is going a little bit larger than say your prototypical TJX or Ross.
They are looking for closer to 30 000 to 40 000 square feet.
Now that being said because the competition is so significant to get into certain assets they are willing to go down to 20 000 to 25 000 square feet.
So we still continue to see that range of 20 000 to 30 000 square feet as being the sweet spot for the op price discounter.
TJX has gone a little bit smaller from 25 000 to 22 000.
Ross continues to be right about the same square footage.
But we think that that's really the sweet spot for the discounter today as they try and figure out how to get the most sales out of their box and continue to refine their business model.
And as for Kmart redevelopments it really depends on the assets where its located what's the best use for the surrounding community.
And what's really going to drive the most sales for that shopping center.
If you got a single box Kmart that you are redeveloping my preference is typically to probably chop it up and do a number of different retailers because then you can really enhance the surrounding retailer.
The retailer that – so if you can add a grocery concept to it your small shop will then pick-up on that significant traffic increase.
And again the junior acre space today is probably the most active in terms of our industry and when we look at Kmart boxes the demand for the juniors are really what's driving the rents and really what's driving the growth there.
So for us it's been a mix but I would say that going forward it will still be drawn a lot of junior box interests.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I realized that the developments that you are currently undertaking are specific in nature and each as a story.
But I'm wondering do you think there is an industry shift that's sort of being signaled here in terms of the amount of developments that's going to happen in the shopping center sector.
And should we think in terms of maybe annual starts for you guys as we look at our models and our thought process for Kimco should we think in terms of $200 million starts a year going forward.
Does that make sense? I think – certainly think it's fair to say that after six years of virtually no development that there are the green shots out there and especially led by the specialty grocers like Whole Foods you are beginning to see more development.
But these are generally a smaller projects and still just a fraction of the number shopping centers that we have developed at the peak we were developing 2000 shopping centers a year in the United States and so may be it's gone from 100 to a 200 or 300 now but it still a small fraction.
And nobody to my knowledge is doing these million square foot lifestyle all spec centers that take years to get the entitlements.
So I think the inventory is going to be limited but certainly there has been a turning point and the economics are now justifying new construction in selective markets.
But I think Richard in terms of modeling again; we are being very very disciplined and careful about where we are acquiring that.
To think that we are going to put on $300 million $400 million a year I don't think that's the case.
The projects there is not that many of them that come along.
I mean as Conor mentioned Christina property we have been working on for 6 years.
And so this is an example.
So I think it's going to be more limited than that.
Yes.
I would agree with Glenn and I would just add to that that the apartment developers are driving land prices up so significantly that that retail is still probably going to be muted in terms of ground-up development going forward.
It's going to have to be a very selective cases for what make sense going forward.
Okay very good.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Linda Tsai of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Following up on the off-priced topic when you look at this off-priced space that's expanding Nordstrom Rack Macy's is your sense that these retailers actively prefer a shopping center location over a traditional outlet location all else equal.
It's really case-by-case on which retailer you are talking about if it's a pure outlet player that's still loves to be in the outlet center then I think that's still their preference.
We are starting to see the bleed happen where typically you would use to see Saks Off Fifth only going in an outlet concept where now they were really active in terms of going to our open air shopping centers.
The theme I would say for the Bloomingdale's outlet concept and the Neiman Marcus last call.
So Nordstrom Rack has always been a player in our space so that one is not new.
But I do see that those others are now becoming very very interested in it in addition to the Nike outlet and a few others.
So that I would say is the starting point I'm not sure if it's going to fall it would be a continuous trend and have all the outlets look to it to relocate.
But at pricing where significant – the operating cost in an outlet center today are significant we can offer a pretty big discount to that.
Thanks.
And then in light of the RadioShack declaring bankruptcy I know this was largely anticipated.
Any color on how many stores are in your portfolio are they in the higher quality centers like the office supply stores? We have 68 RadioShack properties.
I can tell you this last month in January; RadioShack only paid rent on some of the stores.
And those are the ones that they thought they want to keep going forward.
I think all but two of our stores we got the rent paid.
We have been talking with them for the past year as I said we are going to close 200 stores and then we are going to close 1500 stores and most of our stores are not on that list to close.
So we are pretty confident that the bulk of that 15 and 2000 stores will be in the open air centers.
And a lot of them will be ours.
So I think for me – I'm excited that new opportunities are going to come in bring Sprint in there and do a lot of good things in the stores.
But and it looks like as Conor said early on we have had an increase in our small shop based about 280 basis points.
So there is a lot of demand they have good locations so the ones we get back; I think we will do pretty well with.
And just to put in perspective though because of our large scale all those stores they amount to a total of 170 000 square feet I know it's a really tiny piece to a puzzle.
And only 0.3% I think they are so.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Andrew Rosivach of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Caitlin Burrows.
On the similar topic of bankruptcy some of the mall REITs have reported so far have indicated potential loss of rents this year.
From those bankruptcies as you talk about selling small shop space for local businesses do you think you will face the same risk or it seems your tenants different right now? We have been monitoring for the past couple of years.
We heard during the fall of last year a lot of the mall retailers were having issues especially the ones that are dealing with the teams they are not going to the malls any more.
So they are getting hurt.
And so [indiscernible] and folks like that are being struggling.
I'm not seeing that with our shop space tenants at all it's been very strong on that so we are pretty comfortable on our end that we are not going to see a fall like that.
I would agree our watch list is continuing to shrink I think RadioShack and the office supply sector has been on everybody's radar for a long long time.
And we feel very comfortable with the lease roll over and the opportunity to backfill those spaces that significantly improved rents.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Most of my questions have been already asked and answered.
But just on the development pipeline nationally David are we basically in the clear 2015 2016 and then 2017 is when you start to think that there is a little bit of a tick up in deliveries and new inventory coming online or is it further out? I think your term a little bit of pick up is the right term.
We just don't see any V-shape to the recovery of development.
There was so many difficulties with so many large projects that got caught and talked on the financial prices that going into large scale development much of which is spec is exceptionally hard.
And the economics still aren't there.
In many markets rents still aren't back to the levels they were six seven years ago.
So it's very hard to make the numbers work and construction financing is very limited.
It's just much tougher in our sector to get going again in major developments.
So I think you will see a little bit of a U-turn here with development in our sector and you are beginning to see some of it.
But again we are a long way off years off from major major addition to supply.
It's interesting that retail per capita in the U.S.
has actually come down.
I mean that's the first time it's happened in a long long time.
I would just add that the super anchors are really the driver behind a lot of the development in the last cycle.
And when you look at the super anchors today Wal-mart is expanding their smaller footprint with their neighborhood concept.
If you look at Target they are expanding their express concept to smaller footprint.
Home Depot is not really doing anything new.
So a lot of the guys that were out there that were really buying either a piece of land or ground leasing a big portion of a slide to make it feasible are no longer in the game.
So if you take them out of the playing field it's really going to be muted for the next few years.
And then we will start to see a tick back up.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Christy McElroy.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
It's Michael Bilerman with Christy.
Either Dave or Glenn I'm just thinking about sort of capital financing alternatives and Glenn I think you talked a little bit about in guidance that there is a variety of different financing assumptions in your guidance.
I think if you back into the weighted average share count that's embedded in your guidance it's about an extra 10 million shares so it would appear as though there is some level of equity issuance either off the ATM or direct issuances in the guidance.
So I'm wondering as you think about the big Blackstone deal that you did with negotiated transaction taking on leverage being a net acquirer why not have issued the equity earlier or at least timed it better and not take sort of market risk and maybe just help us understand how you are thinking about equity as part of that funding source both within guidance but more strategically about when to rise it.
Sure Michael.
So we have a very strong balance sheet and we have a plenty of liquidity and plenty of levers to pull in terms of our access to capital.
And again we remain very committed to maintaining our BBB+ BAA one ratings.
Now as you know we haven't issued common equity since 2009 although we continually evaluated our capital needs in connection with our operating strategy our debt metrics or capital plan and where we believe are any of these.
But in terms of being able to have more tools we are going to establish an ATM program and watch how the rest of our capital plan runs throughout the year.
But starting with a net debt to EBITDA of 5.5x it gives us the capacity to watch and figure where we are best positioned to – if need to issue equity do it.
I mean there are other things that are out there we have our Supervalu position which potentially could be monetized and add capital to us.
So we really want to see all the pieces come together.
But I guess that's what embedded in there some level embedded in guidance and if you don't do that – you don't do an equity raise there is upside to numbers that effectively you dampened FFO per share growth a little bit by embedding some level of equity issuance? Yes.
Again well guidance is a range right? We have run various scenarios some with some without equity.
But yes I mean if we don't issue equity you will definitely have upside in those numbers.
But again we have to balance that with our debt metrics and our desire to maintain our credit ratings where they are.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
Sure.
Yes I just thinking of the comments – Conor's comment earlier in the prepared remarks about sustaining growth going forward after this so called bridge year.
And then with what David had to say about the likely pace of development returning in the upside and the value creation that provides.
I'm just curious Conor when we go back into your presentation the company did at the end of 2013 the internal growth rate talking about 3% plus and a range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
And as we are approaching this kind of peak occupancy rate that the company has been able to achieve historically 96 and change.
Are you expecting that the redevelopment contribution which of course you will include in the same-store NOI combined with higher spread do you expect that's going to be able to replace the inability to push occupancy any further and sustain same-store NOI 3% plus? What do you think that we have to assume the same-store is just going to have to come down? No.
We do agree with that assumption that that's really what's going to drive it to 3% plus.
And this year as the bridge year we are focused on delivering 3% to 3.5% of same-site NOI and then 2016 and 2017 is actually when a lot of our leases mature that are significantly below market.
So we think that's going to be a nice mark-to-market opportunity just to continue our growth either occupancy hits stabilization.
You couple that with our redevelopment program and that's really what we are excited about a lot in the potential.
Because our low ABR has grown significantly and we continue to think that that's a nice upside for us going forward.
And if I can just add to that the redevelopment contribution therefore should continue to be running at a level substantially above what the development contribution would likely be? That's correct.
Okay.
And remember market rents are moving for us as occupancies get to these peak level for everybody market rents are jumping a bit.
So that will continue to help as well.
Sure.
Thanks.
Our next question is a follow-up from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes again guys.
I got kind of a mundane question to ask you.
With the commentary you made about the two numbers you want to show now the two sets of guidance you want to show one for NAREIT and one for adjusted.
How do you – since you got us on the phone how do you want us to show this to FirstCall I mean should we switch now to a NAREIT definition in what we report to FirstCall or do you want us to stay with the adjusted? No.
I think we run our business based on our recurring flows.
I mean NAREIT is very focused on headline that's their desire.
We run our business and we determine our dividend based on our recurring flows.
So we have provided both because we were request to but we run our business on a recurring.
I would just add maybe Michael Bilerman who certainly has been one of the stronger proponents of making sure there is a consistent measurement for non-dedicated REIT investors to look at.
So that's why NAREIT has been so adamant.
That if you are going to give guidance on something make sure you also give guidance on the official.
Yes there is only one official SEC approved definition of FFO.
And so that's why we have started to give guidance as well as the recurring guidance.
If you listen to David Simmons call he was particularly adamant about it.
We want to attract non-dedicated REIT investors to our space.
So if we can do our part with giving guidance on the official definition we are going to do that.
Okay.
To do that I think Dave we got to show that way too though and – We would agree.
We would agree.
We agree.
We would agree.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
I was wondering can you talk about what you are seeing on the ground in Houston and then Florida? On the ground in Houston was the question – And Florida.
I will just take it Conor knows much more specifics than I do.
But in talking to some of our favorite partners and clients and relationships in Houston they all start-off by saying we want to remind you that this is not the first time we have been to the rodeo.
In other words they have been through ups and downs in energy prices and they feel very good about the long-term prospects of Texas and Houston in particular.
The economy has diversified.
And a lot of the energy projects are very long-tailed projects.
These things take 10 years to put an offshore drilling rig actually in there and producing.
So there is a lot of capital.
It continues to flow into approved projects.
Secondly they remind us there is a lot of capital waiting to come back in and take advantage of any distress that's there.
And we have been particularly pleasantly surprised by the level of tenant interest in our new site in Houston notwithstanding the recent fall in prices.
They like that site.
They like Houston long-term.
And these retailers are going to be there.
So with that Conor? I think that Houston has done a pretty good job in diversifying their economy.
So clearly it's still tied closely to the – with oil prices.
But the Exxon-Mobil campus is fully funded.
It's consolidating all their offices.
They are going to have over 12 000 employees there.
These are all highly educated affluent workers.
Woodland is the hardest area in terms of Texas and housing prices maybe average house stays on the market there about for a week before it's gobbled up.
And we continue to see occupancy hit all time high in Houston.
Our retail occupancy in Houston is higher than our portfolio average and we think that there is huge demand for retailers to continue to expand there.
And the Grand Parkway is a new outer loop of Houston so if you think of where the growth has gone Woodland is actually outside of the Grand Parkway.
So the Grand Parkway is almost like in-field location that has the highest income in dense area of Woodlands outside of it.
So it's actually starting to fill-in nicely.
So with that we feel very comfortable with the investment in the spacing of the retailers.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our final question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick follow-up as you buy these larger portfolios out of your JVs just curious how many of those properties is going to fall on the top tier of your portfolio versus maybe some just to have to kind of take with the portfolio and are you intending on selling any of those assets that may not fall within your top tier? Yes.
Just as a note our JV platform was originally developed so that we could access cheaper cost of capital so we can go after the higher quality assets.
So in general as a footnote the JV properties were and have historically a higher quality property than our core portfolio.
But as we consolidated it many of those properties are in our Tier-1 portfolio now.
And as we analyze the JV buyouts we continue to run our filters through to see which one has fall into our Tier-1 bucket and which one has fall into our Tier-2 bucket which would then be sold-off.
So it's really a fine approach to analyzing not only the asset that we can potentially acquire.
But the good thing is as we continue to manage all these assets we know them inside now have a very good idea what we want to do it as soon as we get the opportunity to control it.
So that largely immaterial amount of the JV acquisition properties that you would see selling over the next couple of years? That's correct.
That's a good assumption.
Great.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks Dan.
To everyone that participated on our call today as a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental that's also posted to our Web site.
Have a good day today.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kimco's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Frank.
Thank you all for joining Kimco's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry Chief Executive Officer; Conor Flynn President and Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Cohen CFO; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Before we begin I want to mention that Kimco plans to host an Investor Day on December 10 of this year in New York City.
We will be sending a save-the-date notice out shortly with more details but wanted to make everyone on this call aware of it so you can mark it on your calendar.
Thank you.
And with that I will turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today.
We are very pleased to report strong first quarter financial results and operating metrics.
Glenn and Conor will cover the specific details but the solid fundamentals of our portfolio continued to drive excellent FFO earnings growth and same-site NOI increases.
Small shop occupancy improvements are particularly encouraging as the economy continues to recover.
While recent retail sales growth has been modest national retailers are still committed to robust expansion plans all in the face of a declining inventory of retail space.
Discounters and service-oriented tenants such as theaters health clubs and restaurants continue to expand rapidly helping to increase effective rents and occupancy in our portfolio and across the open air shopping center sector.
Lower gas prices are also expected to give a boost to consumer spending and in a good sign for shopping centers.
Rich Moore of RBC continues to point to 5-year high levels of planned new store openings while Craig Schmidt of BofA Merrill notes a recovery of retailers focusing on the middle class.
The renewed strength of middle-class purchasing power is expected to disproportionately benefit neighborhood and community shopping centers anchored by conventional grocery stores casual and fast-casual dining and discount anchors such as Walmart Target and Kohl's.
Overall we feel terrific going into 2015 as new supply remains muted despite population growth growing household formation and the slow but steady growth of the U.S.
economy.
With respect to our overall strategy we've essentially completed our exit from Latin America with pending deals on our last shopping center in Mexico and various land parcels.
We also continue to take advantage of a strong market for shopping centers even in secondary markets by selling both our second tier assets as well as those located outside our long-term growth markets.
Our U.S.
property dispositions in total are on track with all of the identified assets largely sold or targeted to be under contract by year-end this potential.
In general sales proceeds from our dispositions are being recycled into our large pipeline of redevelopment projects selective new developments and purchases of our institutional partners' ownership interest in existing Kimco assets.
We believe these activities in general are excellent accretive investments and superior to the acquisition auctions of high-quality stabilized shopping centers owned by third parties.
Our recent Blackstone purchase for example allowed us to fully consolidate 39 high-quality properties we have managed and leased for approximately 10 years.
We know these assets and we know these markets very well and we are excited about their long-term growth potential.
We have also increased our efforts to purchase out parcels or retail properties adjacent to or within existing high-quality properties we already own.
These acquisitions are usually very accretive and increase our scale and leasing leverage in some of our very best properties.
Looking at our Canadian operations.
Our occupancy remains strong at approximately 96% and our Target exposure is fully covered by parent company guarantees on all 9 of our Target Canada leases.
Interest from other retailers is growing and we believe at least 8 of our 9 Target stores will find new anchors this year.
Also as noted in prior statements we have begun to selectively sell certain Canadian properties where we can benefit from historic low cap rates and high institutional demand.
RioCan our largest Canadian partner has purchased our 50% interest in 3 of our RioKim joint venture properties comprising 545 000 square feet while concurrently selling us their 80% interest in a premium joint venture property we originally developed and currently manage in Dallas-Fort Worth.
Our RioCan venture is also selling 2 large properties in Québec in areas where we believe growth will be constrained.
On a separate topic we continue to be pleased with both our SUPERVALU and Safeway investments.
SUPERVALU reported excellent quarterly results and we took the opportunity last week to partially monetize our SUPERVALU stock at a large gain.
In addition the Safeway Albertson's integration is proceeding well under Bob Miller's direction.
While the Safeway investment headlines are Plus business it is important to note that over the years we have completed many smaller transactions within the Plus business which have led to either individual property sale-leasebacks or acquisitions of retailer-owned real estate.
Generally these investments have been off-market a direct result of our relationship with retailers their advisory firms and private equity contacts.
As a final comment Glen and our treasury team continue to do a wonderful job in the capital markets.
Our first ever 30-year unsecured bond was a particularly noteworthy achievement and helped stagger our debt maturities while taking advantage of today's low interest rates.
Now I'd like to turn it to Glenn Conor and Milton for their comments.
Thanks David and good morning.
2015 is off to a strong start.
Our solid first quarter results are the product of strong execution on all fronts including leasing acquisitions dispositions redevelopments and capital raising.
As we reported last night headline FFO per share which represents the official NAREIT definition was $0.37 up from $0.34 last year an 8.8% increase and $0.02 higher than first call consensus.
The improved performances is attributable to higher NOI contribution from the operating portfolio lower G&amp;A expenses and higher transactional income from our investment in Albertsons which contributed $6.5 million or $0.015 per share growth year-over-year.
FFO as adjusted or recurring FFO which excludes nonoperating impairments and transactional income and expense was $0.36 per diluted share for the first quarter up from $0.34 last year a 5.9% increase.
This level of per share growth was achieved even after a $0.055 per share diluted impact from the significant transformational portfolio including the substantial liquidation of our share of assets in Mexico totaling $480 million nonstrategic U.S.
asset sales of $850 million and the impact from currency fluctuations.
The diluted impact was more than offset by the purchase of 5 quality assets totaling $2.1 billion over the past year many from our joint venture programs including the Kimstone acquisition during the first quarter and by our reduced debt cost from refinancing higher coupon debt.
Our portfolio operating team kicked off the year with solid results delivering U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 3.2% and combined same-site NOI growth which includes Canada of 3% before the negative 100 basis point impact on currency.
The same-site NOI growth was achieved primarily from top line revenue growth generated from increased occupancy which is 95.7% for both the U.S.
and the combined portfolios.
Leasing spreads were strong with a 19.1% increase on new leases signed and 8.1% for renewals and options bringing combined leasing expense to 10.1% for the first quarter.
We were very active on the capital raising front.
During the quarter we sourced a new $650 million term loan with a final maturity in 2020 priced at LIBOR plus 95 basis points.
We used the proceeds to repay a $400 million term loan which was priced at LIBOR plus 105 and to partially fund the Kimstone purchase.
In addition we issued a $350 million 30-year bond and a coupon of 4.25% yielding 4.31% including the lowest 30-year coupon in the REIT industry and extending our weighted average maturity profile by 2 years.
As a result of the significant acquisition volume in the first quarter our net debt to recurring EBITDA is 6.6x and 6.4x when you pro forma for the full quarter EBITDA from the Kimstone acquisition which was closed in February.
We expect to bring net debt to recurring EBITDA back to 6x by the end of the year consistent with our stated objective of operating in a 5.5x to 6x range.
Our liquidity position is in excellent shape ending the quarter with over $1.6 billion available on our revolving credit facility and as another source of low-cost capital.
Based on our strong first quarter results and expectations for the balance of the year we are raising our headline FFO per share guidance range to $1.50 to $1.55 from the previous range of $1.45 to $1.53.
The headline FFO guidance range includes $32.4 million or $0.08 per share gain from the partial monetization of our SUPERVALU investment which was completed during the second quarter.
We are also increasing our FFO as adjusted per share guidance range to $1.42 to $1.45 from the initial range of $1.40 to $1.44.
We are reaffirming our operating guidance assumptions for occupancy of 25 to 50 basis points and U.S.
same-site NOI growth of 3% to 3.5% as well as our acquisition and disposition targets.
Keep in mind the guidance range is sensitive to timing of acquisitions dispositions and financing initiatives.
And with that I'll turn it over to Conor.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everyone.
Today I will start by recapping our progress on acquisitions and dispositions followed by updates on our development and redevelopment pipeline and finishing with a quick recap of the operating metrics.
Overall we had a good start to the year and are pleased with the team effort that showcases how Kimco continues to execute on all fronts.
The evolution of the open-air shopping center gives our talented team a tremendous opportunity to enhance net asset value.
We continue to execute on our transformation and simplification strategy with the previously announced closing of the Kimstone transaction.
At the time of closing the cap rate on the portfolio was approximately 6% and it has since performed above our own internal expectations.
In addition we acquired a Sprouts-anchored center in Houston also at a 6 cap which gives us control of 3 corners at the dominant intersection of Highway 6 and Spencer Road.
We also acquired 4 adjacent parcels to our Tier 1 portfolio as we look to expand our footprint where we see the opportunity for future redevelopment.
The acquisitions market remains red-hot and we remain disciplined.
We continue to be selective about targets and are focused on unlocking opportunities at strategic locations within our core markets.
The disposition market does not shown any signs of slowing down with cap rates continuing to compress for dominant secondary market assets.
The definition of core appears to be shifting with numerous buyers willing to step out on the risk spectrum for a slightly higher yield.
We sold 6 shopping centers this quarter at an average implied cap rate of 7.25% in addition to 37 triple net assets for a $10 million gain.
We plan to have the final phase of our disposition program complete by the end of the year and then we'll take a fresh look annually on how to continue to improve the portfolio by selling our lowest tranche and mass funding those proceeds into our redevelopment and development activities.
In the first quarter we completed 12 redevelopment projects at a cost of $35 million giving us a return on investment of 11.7% which was 114 basis points higher than our original estimates.
Notable completions this quarter include: the Whole Foods at Pompano Beach; the 2-level Publix at our Miller Road asset Miami; and the opening of Nordstrom Rack at Redfield Promenade.
The redevelopment pipeline is focused on the emerging trend of a adding traditional and specialty grocers to our Tier 1 power centers.
This quarter we completed and have under construction 12 grocery stores including 2 Whole Foods 2 Publix 2 Safeways 2 Fresh Thyme Farmers Markets a Stew Leonard's a Harris Teeter a Lucky and a Trader Joe's.
These projects now bring our total percent of ABR from a grocery-anchored center to 71.2% up from 65.8% last quarter.
We believe this is the sweet spot for our redevelopments as we identify and incentivize our team to execute on creating a grocery opportunity that boosts daily traffic and surrounding retailer sales and ultimately improves NAV.
We have made great strides with this initiatives as a unique way for Kimco to create significant value and have improved from 56.3% in 2010 to over 70% today.
In addition this quarter we broke ground on the mixed-use redevelopment in Columbia Maryland where we ground leased a portion of the grocery-anchored asset to an apartment developer who is now under construction adding 230 units to complement our retail at Wild Lake.
Currently we have a total of $289 million in active redevelopment projects with another $659 million in the design and entitlement phase and $117 million that is currently under review.
For the quarter redevelopment added 70 basis points to our same-site NOI.
Moving to development.
Our development pipeline remains on track and each development is a special case where we feel the team has sourced an opportunity to either expand upon a successful asset or add an additional Tier 1 asset in our core markets.
Whole Foods at Wynnewood is under construction and on schedule for a mid-2016 opening.
The 3 other development projects are in the early stages of securing entitlements and we will soon be announcing major anchor signings.
The Dania Beach project sits along I-95 and adjacent to the Fort Lauderdale airport and our successful Oakwood shopping center.
The Christiana Delaware project also sits along I-95 and is adjacent to GGP's Christiana Mall.
And finally our Grand Parkway project sits along the new Grand Parkway in close proximity to the new Exxon Mobil campus in the Woodlands area of Houston.
The lack of supply and strong retailer demand has given us confidence that we will be able to achieve a risk-adjusted return on each of these projects between 200 to 300 basis points above exit cap rates and provide the company with long-term hold assets and help boost internal growth in major gateway cities.
I am very proud of our leasing team and their achievements for the first quarter historically the most challenging quarter from an occupancy perspective.
For the first time in 5 years we were able to maintain our U.S.
pro rata occupancy from prior quarter.
This is no small feat on a portfolio of our size and the credit goes to all those hardworking deal makers.
The small shop occupancy drove the performance with an increase in pro rata occupancy to 88.2% a 20 basis point increase from prior quarter a 260 basis point increase over prior year first quarter.
We achieved this in spite of RadioShack's bankruptcy filing which had a negative 20 basis point drag on our small shop occupancy.
Our combined leasing spreads were over 10% this quarter an improvement over the prior year and were boosted by new deals with Whole Foods Publix and our first Stew Leonard's.
We welcome Stew Leonard's to anchor our Airport Plaza in Farmingdale Long Island.
Stew Leonard's who is also known as the Disneyland of dairy stores will be the only Stew Leonard's on all of Long Island and create a one-of-a-kind signature asset.
In closing we continue to see improving fundamentals across the major metro markets in the U.S.
and believe the slow recovery will soon take hold of the middle class that will provide a further boost to our retailer sales.
The U.S.
same-site NOI improved 3.2% due to the positive boost of net absorption redevelopment and less-than-anticipated tenant fallout.
The ABR of the portfolio is up 6.2% year-over-year an increase from $13.18 to $14.
Our new leases are being signed at $17.35 24% above our current average base rent showcasing the significant embedded value and the mark-to-market opportunity we have here at Kimco.
We remain focused on improving net asset value through aggressive early terminations dynamic redevelopments adding grocery components diligent small shop leasing and adding density to unlock value.
We are ahead of our internal plan for the year thanks to our talented team and strengthened portfolio.
But as you have heard us say many times there's more work to do.
And with that I'll turn it over to Milton for his final comments.
Well thank you Conor.
Great properties great people and a great future.
That's what I think about when I think of Kimco.
Since the announcement of our transformation strategy at our 2010 Investment Day we have bought and sold over $5 billion for properties.
Think about that for a moment.
Not only is that a staggering figure in and of itself it is a size that represents an equity market cap that is larger than many of our peers but it's also reflective of the transformation of our portfolio.
The result? Our portfolio is now better located of higher quality more resilient and offers tremendous growth opportunities for redevelopment.
A transformation however is not limited to our portfolio.
It extends to our management team as well.
And this is what I'm most enthused about.
Our transformed management team led by our future CEO Conor Flynn is a unique blend of energy talent and experience.
With our new Chief Investment Officer Ross Cooper; and our new Executive Vice President of Asset Management David Jamieson who joins Conor Glenn Ray Edwards and our spectacular and pragmatic General Counsel Bruce Rubenstein I believe we have several -- an executive dream team at Kimco.
But that's not all.
I've often trumpeted our deep bench strength at Kimco.
And that phrase sometimes connotes a backup team and nothing could be further from reality.
At our headquarters and in our regions we have many talented leaders who are moving Kimco forward every day.
These include Will Teichman our senior Director of Strategic Operations; Chris Freeman our Vice President of Property Management; and Tom Taddeo our Chief Investment Officer and there are many others.
And I've watched these talented individuals grow over the years and I'm even more excited to see what they will accomplish in the years to come.
And now we'd be delighted to answer any questions.
We're ready to move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions].
Frank you may take our first caller.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Conor I'm wondering if you could provide your thoughts around Whole Foods new concepts of lower priced stores aimed at millennials.
It sounds like they've already started negotiating some leases for the new stores.
If you're able to provide any color on whether or not you had discussions with them and what size and type of locations they're targeting? And also is this a game changer potential here? Or are they up against some pretty steep competition to that demographic? Yes it's a good question Christy.
We have an open dialogue with Whole Foods.
As you've heard in my remarks we have a number of deals pending with them in different forms of construction.
So we do think that it's going to be an added benefit to our portfolio especially when you look at the size that they're considering because many times when we try and add a grocery component to one of our assets the size of the box sometimes restricts what kind of retailers we can add.
So I think their price point going after the millennials trying to probably be a little bit more competitive with some of the new specialty grocery concepts that have done so well in the recent years.
I think that's their strategy and I think it's a good one because I think that they have for a long time been the highest price point in terms of the grocery sector.
And I think if they launched a competitive line of millennial-targeted grocery stores I think it will fit nicely within our portfolio and others.
Next question comes from Samir Khanal from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> As you mentioned in your opening remarks that the debt to EBITDA number had ticked up in the quarter which seems to be because of Kimstone.
Just trying to -- can you expand on that? And just kind of remind us how that leverage sort of goes back down based on kind of the options you have available? I mean there is the ATM.
I don't think that was utilized.
Maybe it's equity raise or even possible asset sales.
Just trying to get a sense of how you kind of prioritized these options as you kind of work the leverage down? Sure Samir.
Well obviously the leverage is up due to the Kimstone portfolio.
We brought on balance sheet roughly $1.1 billion of debt and it is our goal to bring it back down to the 6x level.
As I mentioned it's 6.4x today when you really pro forma in the full amount of the EBITDA right? We closed in the beginning of February so you're missing a full month of EBITDA.
So you have to really start at that 6.4x.
And then we have multiple options and levers to pull.
Selling the SUPERVALU stock is one piece to it which happened in the second quarter so that will help bring down leverage.
That's an asset sitting on our books that had no EBITDA so the cash will go to reduce debt there.
We have the balance of our sales that we're working through as well.
And we do have our ATM program in place which at the right time we'll be able to use and we've modeled that into our forecast.
So we feel comfortable that we'll get it down one way or another to 6x by the end of the year.
Next question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering as you head into Las Vegas I can see ICSC convention.
What are your top priorities? What do you really want to get accomplished with this convention? The ICSC in Vegas is really -- it's a time and a place to go through the portfolio but also think strategically with our retail partners.
We've obviously upgraded our portfolio.
We're adding a lot of redevelopment projects in the out years as well as some development projects.
So I'd like to think of it as a way to look at the out years to try and see what we can do strategically together and where our retailers are expanding and what they're looking for from the landlord today.
I think the landlord's perspective has changed in terms of what we want to try and offer at the shopping center.
And we want to see what the retailers are looking for as well in terms of what we can do to be a more proactive landlord.
So hearing from them obviously putting -- getting together with some of our largest partners is always a benefit and seeing what they believe is in store for the year ahead and years ahead.
Research Division</strong> And -- are the retailers pushing to you for new developments to open stores in? Absolutely.
They have some pretty significant store counts that they need to fill and they are looking at all of our ground-up developments as well as our redevelopment.
So they're very aggressive in trying to get into the high-quality shopping centers.
And the supply and demand is definitely in the landlord's favor and we're utilizing that to the best of our ability and making sure that we have the right portfolio to grow with our retailers.
Next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Recently we have seen that Sears has been very active with mall owners to reposition its mall-based Sears locations.
I know your Kmart exposure declined in the first quarter.
But just curious if they have been more receptive and active to the same strategy with respect to the Kmart locations in your portfolio? This is Ray Edwards.
First off you should appreciate that the mall locations Sears owns those properties.
And for the mall owners to joint venture with them for the redevelopment is very important.
Kimco has lease positions with Kmart.
We have a number of locations that have no term remaining for the next 2 to 3 years that we'll be getting back.
So we're focused on those and we are working with them on some other locations but we have a lot more flexibility with Kmart.
They're all leased positions.
We're working with them.
They don't have control of the spaces for a tremendous amount of time and we are working with them.
We have done deals with Kmart and Sears in the past.
And particularly we closed last year on Christiana which was a property that they owned that was a product service center for them.
And we worked with them for 5 years to get that site redeveloped.
And then upon getting the site rezoned we were able to acquire the property and develop it on our own.
So we have a good relationship with them and we'll work strategically where it makes sense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding the comments Conor made regarding the power center redevelopment strategy.
Just curious whether you found that grocer-anchored power centers kind of consistently sell at lower cap rates than [indiscernible] when you estimate that that can result in? Yes it definitely compresses the cap rate when you can add the grocery component into a power center.
It's probably between 50 to 150 basis points depending on the location and who the surrounding retailers are.
But not just from a cap rate compression standpoint it's a great thing to boost surrounding retailer sales because the traffic flow is dramatically increased when you have that grocery component.
And originally we thought that this new strategy was only going to be dedicated toward the specialty grocer sector.
But what's been a huge boost for us is now the traditional grocers are trying to take advantage of this as well and it might have something to do with the supply and demand factor where boxes are just not readily available.
So when we can put together spaces for these grocery concepts it's fantastic for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay then finally for me.
In the past merchant developers have been a major source of acquisition opportunities in the industry but development starts have remained relatively low this cycle.
I'm just curious and again in anticipation of ICSC I'm just curious whether you're seeing any evidence of any material increase in terms of merchant development starts? No we really haven't.
We think it's going to remain muted for quite a while.
The few developments you are seeing are generally smaller and generally food anchors.
So those large 800 000 to 1 million square-foot large scale spec developments of years ago they just haven't come back yet.
So the total supply in terms of new supply we expect to remain very very low for a while.
Remember we're still in a recovery mode in terms of rents getting back to previous high levels.
So the economics are still tough for developers to make a lot of sense for a lot of [indiscernible].
And multi-family developers are really driving up prices in terms of land.
So we really -- when you do a retail development versus a multifamily development it's really hard to make the numbers pencil.
Next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I guess one for you a question on the guidance.
In the guidance detail on the back of your supp we see that the full-year portfolio contribution is up a bit in the forecast for this year versus what you were forecasting last quarter.
Despite you leaving these same-store NOI outlook unchanged.
So is that reflective of dispositions perhaps occurring later in the year than expected? Or maybe you're taking a wait-and-see approach for your same-store NOI guidance and maybe you'll wait until next quarter before revising it upward? Well again it's up.
It's up modestly right? If you look at where it is it's only a few million dollars up.
So it doesn't move the same-site NOI needle all that much.
And part of it is a little better performance really coming from this Kimstone portfolio which is not in the same-site NOI number.
But overall the portfolio is performing better.
So it is early in the year though.
But we feel comfortable with our guidance range.
Research Division</strong> And then a question on the impact for the first quarter of snow.
I'm just curious on how much that might have taken a bite out of your NOI in the first quarter? Yes we actually saw the snow have a 15 to 20 basis point impact on our same-site NOI numbers this quarter.
Next question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I saw that you're marketing the centers in the big portfolio out on the West Coast and I was wondering if that was a JV you guys expected to exit outright? Or if that's just part of a -- I'll call it a price discovery process maybe under a right of first refusal? It's part of our simplification strategy that is a JV that back last year if you remember we split the portfolio into 2 and this was the remainder of that portfolio.
We are in the market with that portfolio and we'll see what the pricing comes in at.
But it's a portfolio that has some good locations but also is mixed.
So we're marketing it as a portfolio to see what kind of price discovery we can find.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the TIs on new leases excluding redevelopment assets has been running kind of in the $20 a square foot range the last few quarters.
I think Kimco used to pride itself on really its lack of TI contribution in prior years.
Is that just I guess what's necessitated in this environment? Or is that really a function of your shift to sort of a higher quality type of property that's maybe driving increased TI contribution? I think it's a little of both.
Historically we have been running as the low cost provider and many of our assets I think require some upgrading.
So you're seeing that in terms of when we reposition an asset with a new anchor we want to make sure that we bring the asset up to a competitive level.
So we are investing quite a bit in terms of redevelopments as well as some property upgrades to help curb appeal and the TIs have ticked up a little bit but I think that's part of our strategy going forward.
Next question comes from Jason White from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on size.
It looks like obviously guys are the biggest in the group.
But as you look at some other sectors there's kind of behemoths in their group.
So is there a benefit to even larger scale in the shopping center peer group? Or is size once you get to your level kind of irrelevant? Well we think we have 2 benefits.
One is the total size and the number of properties we have but also being national in scale.
That helps us with retailers.
We're at the top of their list in terms of landlords they want to sit down and talk to and review their expansion plans and their desire to meet their store count.
So it does give us a little bit of an edge having so many properties and having so many relationships with these different retailers.
It also helps from the cost standpoint on our side.
We're more productive and there's more efficiencies in our back office when you spread our cost over so many properties and so many different leases.
I would just add that I think size makes a difference when you have a controlling interest in specific submarkets.
So as you can see when you look at our map we're trying to get a lot more concentrated around the major gateway markets because we believe that there is significant pricing power when you can control significant submarkets and that's what we're trying to get to.
I don't think that the size necessarily matters in our sector because of the amount of strip centers that are in the population.
But if you can concentrate your ownership around corridors retail corridors that are very successful then you can use us to your advantage.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if Kimco was to say double in size you don't think there's much incremental benefit to the extra square footage added? It really depends on where those -- when you double in size where those assets are.
If you own the 3 or 4 corners in the best market absolutely then you can definitely use that to your advantage as leases roll and you can see how to upgrade the tenants and push rents.
But again and maybe it'll add significant redevelopment opportunities when you do control a lot more real estate.
But it really is I think market specific and what you want to try and capture there is where the growth is coming from.
Next question comes from James Bambrick from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Regarding the 37 net leased properties you sold in the quarter were those the same net leased assets you acquired a couple of years ago? And also does that eliminate your net lease exposure? Or do you have a bit more that you're looking to sell? These R&amp;D part of the portfolio a large portfolio of net leased restaurants we did acquire a couple of years ago that was fairly public.
So far we've sold 42 of those net leased restaurants.
Original cost was about $58 million we've sold them for $70 million.
So there were some nice gains in that.
We have 29 more to go 20 of them are under agreement to sell so we are liquidating those net leased restaurants.
But you shouldn't confuse these net leased restaurants with our net leases that we have lots of different net leases with different types of tenants.
We just think it's a great time to sell these net leased restaurants and some of these are in secondary markets and the 1031 market in particular is very aggressive right now.
Next question comes from Nathan Isbee from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Some recent press reports have the Safeway consortium preparing to tee it up for an IPO.
Can you discuss what you've accomplished there so far and how close you are to an event? Again this is Ray Edwards.
With regard -- the Safeway transaction [indiscernible] closed in the end of January this year.
And the one thing that is public that is out there is that we did come to agreement with SUPERVALU regarding the transitional service agreement and the wind down of our dependency on them so we can be a standalone company.
So that's what we're really focused on.
Bob Miller and his team are working on merging a 20-store [ph] chain right now and focused really on getting that done.
We're very happy with its performance to date.
As to what our exit strategy is? Obviously you think about that every day but it's really too early to tell where we're going to be and how it's going to end up.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just a quick follow-up question here.
Conor you had mentioned about the acquisition market for secondary markets particularly being red-hot.
And I'm just curious -- obviously it's been a strong appetite across the quality spectrum but I'm just curious in your view if you think that the cap rate -- we're seeing cap rate compression between primary and secondary markets or whether the spread remains where it was say about a year ago? This is Ross Cooper.
I would say that there is a little bit of compression certainly between the secondary markets and the primary.
But at the same time you're also seeing the primary markets continue to go further lower as Milton has indicated in prior quarters that he expects.
So there is a little bit of compression certainly but we're also seeing the A quality in primary markets come down a little bit as well.
So it's a good time to be a seller in those secondary markets but it's also a pretty challenging market to be buying in the A and primary markets as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know that can be difficult to assess exactly why this might be happening but do you see more buyers out there for the secondary markets now than they did a year ago? And there was reference to the yield-driven acquisition strategy.
But does there just seem to be more funds teed up who want entry into that product type? Yes I would absolutely say that's accurate.
On our disposition when we're in the market we're seeing significantly more bidders and all different types of bidders both private institutions bidding on properties that a couple of years ago may not have had the same response.
So we're very excited about where we are on our exit strategy for the secondary market assets and expect that to continue through the end of the year.
It may be worth adding that the growing CMBS ability of obtaining financing is helping for the secondary market acquisitions.
CMBS is back and financing is available for the secondary assets now.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Frank and to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a reminder additional information for the company can be found on our supplemental as posted on our website.
Have a good day.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Kimco's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Bujnicki Vice President.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Chad.
Good morning and thank you all for joining Kimco's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Dave Henry Chief Executive Officer; Conor Flynn President and Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Cohen CFO.
There are also other executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it's important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the company's SEC filings that address such factors.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
And we have one housekeeping item to address.
Kimco is hosting an Investor Day on December 10 of this year in New York City.
We recently sent out invitations for this event and if you did not receive it please contact my office and we'll make sure to get this to you.
We've also provided more details on this event with the opportunity to RSVP on our Investor Relations website and with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Henry.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call today.
We are very pleased to report strong second quarter financial and operating results.
As usual Glenn and Conor will discuss the specific details while Milton will provide some general thoughts.
Overall both our earnings and property fundamentals looked terrific as we continue to upgrade our portfolio and sell lower tier retail assets.
Combined with limited new supply and healthy growth of both national discounters and service-oriented retailers our operating metrics are strong and bode well for future earnings growth.
It is particularly encouraging to note another strong quarter of US same-site NOI growth at 3.7%.
Despite modest retail sales figures national retailers continue their expansion plans which in turn is fueling higher occupancies redevelopment projects and some limited ground up development in certain markets.
Effective rents are moving up sharply and property values continue to increase.
In fact the only disappointing current trend is the rising disconnect between private market evaluations and the implied cap rates property values of REITs in general.
Retail properties of all quality types and an almost all markets are experiencing strong demand with cap rates continuing to drift down.
Wherever possible Kimco is continuing to take advantage of the robust sales market by selling our remaining second tier assets and redeploying the capital into redeveloping our larger properties and acquiring the equity interest of our institutional partners.
In the latter case we have the advantage of having managed the assets for many years and have in most cases a long term presence in these markets.
With respect to our overall strategy we have now sold our remaining retail assets in Mexico and we've begun to sell certain Canadian properties as we take steps to reduce our leverage levels which temporarily rose in the first quarter with our purchase of Blackstone's joint venture interest in the former UBS joint venture portfolio.
We expect to continue selectively selling Canadian assets including our remaining Canadian preferred equity investments to help us achieve our year end debt target without issuing new equity.
Glenn will cover this in more detail during his presentation.
Also with respect to Canada property prices remain high despite the negative impact of energy prices on the economy particularly in Alberta.
Our partners in Canada are also making excellent progress replacing the 9 Target Canadian stores in our portfolio.
Five of the 9 Target leases have been purchased by Lowe's and Metro Grocery Store is taking part of fixed [ph] store.
There is substantial interest from other retailers in our remaining phases including Marshalls Bed Bath &amp; Beyond H&amp;M and Sport Chek.
And I remind everybody that we have US Targets guarantee on all 9 of the leases.
Switching back to the US I believe most participants on the call today have noted the recent public IPO filing of Safeway Albertsons.
We are confident that the future monetization of our 9.8% investment will provide an additional source of capital to fund developments redevelopments acquisitions and reduced debt.
During the quarter as reported we also sold approximately 80% of our super value stock at a large deal.
Our Plus business continues truly be a strong plus for us.
Overall we feel very positive about the underlying fundamentals about open air retail properties and the markets we are focusing on.
The eCommerce impact on essential goods and services has been modest and most national retailers have emphasized the benefits of brick and mortar store locations as an essential part of their integrated omnichannel strategy and very necessary for brand exposure.
The proof really is in the numbers.
As occupancy rents leasing spreads and renewals are all strong across our sector.
Now I'd like to turn to Glenn Conor and Milton for their thoughts.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our second quarter results were strong with solid execution at the property operating level and additional contribution from our Plus business.
As we reported last night headline FFO per share which represents the official NAREIT definition was $0.44 for the second quarter.
A 29.4% increase from the $0.34 over the last quarter.
Our strong performance is attributable to NOI increase of $8 million or $0.02 per share from the shopping center portfolio and higher transactional income primarily from the $32.4 million marketable security gain on the cost of sale of our super value investment.
For the six months headline FFO per share is $0.81 up from the $0.68 per share level for the comparable period last year a 19.1% increase.
FFO was adjusted or recurring FFO which excludes non-operating impairments and transactional income and expense was $0.37 for the second quarter up from $0.35 last year a 5.7% increase.
It's worth noting that this level of growth was achieved even with the impact of $900 million of US asset sold over $400 million of asset sold in Mexico Latin America and Canada and a negative impact from currency fluctuations.
This transformational activity have diluted impact of $0.06 per share.
However it was more than offset with acquisitions of over $2 billion of high quality shopping centers and many from our joint venture programs and reduced debt cost from opportunistic refinancing.
For the six months FFO is adjusted per share is $0.73 from $0.69 for the comparable period last year of 5.8% increase.
Portfolio operating metrics of occupancy leasing spreads and same-site NOI growth continue to deliver strong levels.
Our US pro rata occupancy stands at 95.7% up 70 basis points from a year ago.
US leasing spreads continue to increase with new leases up 26% and renewals and options up 8.7% for combined positive leasing spreads of 11.9%.
The closely watched metric of US same-site NOI growth was 3.7% for the second quarter driven primarily by minimum rent increases and better credit loss results.
Included in the US same-site NOI growth is 50 basis points from new developments.
For the six months US same-site NOI growth is 3.4% with 40 basis points coming from redevelopments.
We are maintaining our US same-site NOI guidance range of 3% to 3.5% for the full year 2015.
Combined same-site NOI growth including Canada was 3.4% for the second quarter and 3.2% for the six months excluding the negative 110 basis point currency impact.
We continue to make progress on our balance sheet metrics with consolidated net debt to current EBITDA dropping to 6.3 times from the 6.6 times level at the end of first quarter.
We have raised our full year disposition guidance range to $800 million to $1.1 billion representing an increase of $250 million to $350 million.
Which will provide the necessary capital to bring our net debt to recurring EBITDA to six times by year end without the need for any common equity assurance? Based on our strong first half results and expectations for the second half of the year.
We are raising our headline FFO for share guidance range to $1.52 to $1.56 from the previous per share range of $1.50 to $1.55.
The headline guidance range includes an additional $1 million to $6 million net transactional income generated during the remainder of the year.
We are also increasing our FFO as adjusted per share guidance range to $1.43 to $1.46 from the previous per share guidance range of $4.142 or $1.45.
Again these increased per share guidance levels do not anticipate the need for any common equity insurance and with that I'll turn it over to Conor.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everyone.
Today I'll start by recapping our major metrics followed by our progress on our acquisitions and dispositions and finish with updates on our strategic development and redevelopment pipeline.
Overall we continue to see the fundamentals of our business improved in this favourable supply and demand environment.
Our retailers in open-air centers which include off price soft goods specialty grocers fitness and wellness concepts and fast casual restaurants continue with the their aggressive expansion plans.
Regardless of the interest rate noise that's creating a disconnect between public and private pricing we are laser focused on execution.
These core initiatives include the blocking and tackling of leasing.
Continuous efforts to improve operations with an eye towards sustainability and finishing off our disposition by taking advantage of the healthy demand for hard assets with a strong yield.
Turning to our major metrics the US portfolio maintained occupancy at 95.7% even with the disposition of over 1.2 million square feet of fully occupied space.
Due to the disposition the small shop occupancy took a slight dip to 88% at 20 basis point decrease in prior quarter.
But we remain confident about the overall improvement in the small shop leasing environment and the ability to grow occupancy throughout the rest of the year.
Anchor absorption made up the difference as it increased to 98.4% by executing new deals with Wal-Mart Fresh Thyme Farmers Market Total Wine and Planet Fitness to help keep the overall US occupancy flat over prior quarter.
Our combined spreads for the second quarter were almost 12% a strong indicator that pricing power exist in our key markets where we see demand outpacing supply.
Same-site NOI and continues to trend over 3% in the US and the lease up with small shop vacancies redevelopments and strong re-leasing spreads will continue to produce solid results.
A retailer watch list continues to be of focus as we have seen a few dark clouds on the horizon with the recent bankruptcy filings of RadioShack Anna's Linens and A&amp;P.
All three combined make up less than 1% of our AVR.
Our diverse tenant base allows us to think strategically about the long-term goals of our assets that our core performing retailers that have great underline real estate value.
The average base rent of the portfolio is up 6.1% year-over-year.
Our new leases are being signed in an average of over $19 significantly above our current average base rent showcasing the embedded value to the mark-to-market opportunity we have Kimco's.
We continue to execute on our transformation and simplification strategy.
With the previously announced closing of the KIF II transaction at Montgomery Square in Fort Worth.
Both of these transactions further the consolidation of our joint venture properties and give us buying opportunities in a challenging acquisition environment that also acquires seven adjacent parcels to our Tier 1 portfolio as we look to expand our footprint where we see the opportunity for future redevelopment.
The acquisitions market remains ultra-competitive and a few recent transaction showcase that cap rates continue to fall especially for high quality open-air centers in dense markets.
while we continue to mind for opportunities we believe the best use of our capital continues to be redevelopment and strategic development.
The disposition market continues to remain healthy with cap rates continuing to compress across quality and markets.
In the second quarter we sold 13 properties totalling 1.3 millions square feet and all were 100% occupied generating $92 million in KIM share proceeds.
Buyers of these assets include public institutions private REITs and local private buyers.
Currently we have 28 assets under contract for $170 million 15 accepted offers totalling $136 million and another 18 assets in the market that will complete our transformation by year end and produce another $500 million of gross proceeds.
With respect to our redevelopment and development programs.
Whether it's cooling our existing portfolio looking for value add opportunities assembling adjacent parcels to create future phases or building a new site from the ground up.
Our team is working overtime to analyze the highest and best use of the real estate.
This modus operandi to evaluating real estate investments opportunities is what we call strategic development.
That said steady progress continues to be made on our redevelopment development pipelines.
This quarter we completed 11 redevelopments with gross cost of $34 million.
The blended incremental ROI on these project is 15.5%.
the projects were completed under budget and above our revenue expectations.
Representing an increase in ROI of 120 basis points over pro forma.
At the same time seven projects were promoted to the active status included in the category of promotions.
Our Forest Avenue in Staten Island where we will be redeveloping a formal national wholesale liquidators to make way for a new LA Fitness.
And at our Downtown Farmington Center in Farmington Michigan.
We'll be redeveloping a former Office Depot in Tuesday morning for a new Fresh Thyme Farmers Market continuing our effort to add a grocery components to our centers EO redevelopment.
Notable completions this quarter include the transformation of two K marts in Florida where we added Whole Foods TJX and Ross among other great retailers.
The redevelopment pipeline targets the highest and best use for each asset.
That the focus on upgrading the quality of the tenant mix adding a grocery component and adding density via mixed use to complement the existing retail.
The continued expansion of speciality and traditional grocery concepts in our core markets.
in addition to the emergence of a number of new off price for outlet concepts bodes well for our redevelopment and strategic development initiative.
These new demand forces are allowing us to unlock below market rents with higher producing retailers that will benefit the net asset value of the portfolio.
Currently the redevelopment pipeline has a gross value of just over $1.1 billion for the total of $268 million in active redevelopment another $756 million in designed and entitlement and $97 million in under review.
For the quarter redevelopment adds 50 basis points to our same-site NOI.
We continue to look for development opportunities that are within our core markets.
Complement our long-term Tier 1 portfolio and provides compelling returns.
Despite high retailer demand sourcing new projects that will be accretive remains challenging.
Due to rising cost of land associated with the boom in multifamily development.
That said retailer demand for our select developments has been strong and we continue to work towards securing a vibrant tenant mix that will create a live work play atmosphere that we seek to create on all of our Tier 1 assets.
Our four development projects remain on track and will start to deliver in the second half of 2016.
In closing at the midpoint of the year.
We are pleased with our progress on our strategic initiatives but understand that the execution throughout the second half of the year is key to achieving our goals.
So we've empowered our operations team to make strides to become the best in class operator of open-air shopping centers and it is nice to our efforts being recognized.
Commercial property executive magazine named Kimco the number two most effective property manager.
And Newsday named Kimco one of the top three greenest REITs in the entire REIT universe and number one in all of retail.
These accomplishments could not have been achieved without the passion and effort of our deep bench of talented individuals that are pushing Kimco to become the next generation REIT and with that I'll turn it over to Milton for his final comments.
Thanks Conor.
I would once again like to congratulate our team which is second to none on an excellent quarter.
In particular I would like to thank Ray Edwards who continues to spearhead our Plus business activities and was instrumental in the Albertsons investment.
Ray is just one example of our deep bench strength.
And as I've said before we've great people great assets and a great future.
On another topic the recent bankruptcy filing of A&amp;P as it relates to our portfolio.
Got me thinking about the off and cited premise that high rents are a proxy for value and quality.
Now with respect to our A&amp;P sites.
Four leases with below market rents are being site of the grosses generating a profit to A&amp;P while two other stores with above market rents will be closing.
Now this admittedly is a small sample but I think it is telling.
A rent that as if market or below is much more sustainable over the long-term as the embedded value represents an upside for both the landlord and the tenant.
These win-win scenarios for the owner or the retailer are what creates long-term value.
As such I believe that low market rents and sometimes we're talking about ground rent should be recorded lower cap rates conversely while higher rents maybe an indicator of a quality assets.
They may also reflect more risk if the rents aren't sustainable over the long run.
When underwriting of potential acquisition determining of replacement rents for some to high paying tenants is critical to the overall valuation of that site.
In short one size does not fit all.
And now we'll be happy to take any questions.
We're ready to move the question-and-answer portion of the call we have a very deep queue.
So we request that you respect to limited one question with an appropriate follows up to all of our callers have an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to rejoin the queue.
Chad you may take the first caller.
[Operator Instructions] our first question comes today from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America I know that Kimco is working on becoming a more urban portfolio but outside of continuing to concentrate the portfolio around the top metro markets what are some of the steps you're taking to become a more urban portfolio? I think the number of different steps we're taking we're really divesting of the asset that fall outside of our core urban markets.
we're also looking to acquire adjacent parcels to our assets that are within the core urban areas.
And we're looking to develop within those core markets.
so combining acquisitions with development and redevelopment and disposition.
We really are trying to transform the portfolio to become a more urban portfolio.
And what are you seeing in terms of spreads of either NOI gain or leasing spreads in terms of the urban properties versus maybe some of the properties in the second tier cities? It really is a case-by-case analysis.
You've got to look at the ones that we continue to try and redevelop even if they're in second markets because those will actually return very nice returns.
But we're seeing the embedded growth whether it's a same-site NOI or the leasing spreads on the mark-to-markets within the core urban markets definitely are growing at a higher pace.
We've seen that the urban markets have higher embedded growth and more demand from our retailers and that's a real reason why we're focusing on that chapter.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Christy McElroy with Citigroup.
Conor just following up on your comments around development.
As you look at your portfolio and are considering more sort of larger scale projects whether identification of existing assets or new development.
And you also talked about the large redevelopment pipeline sort of a shadow pipeline looking out.
How do you think about sort of annual pace of realizing some of those opportunities.
So I think you're in process pipeline is only about 2% to 3% of your growth assets value currently.
Do you have a desire to growth that overtime? It's a good question I think breaking it down to two different buckets.
Redevelopment is one that I love to do more of we're trying to focus and see how we can expand that $1.1 billion pipeline by adding more projects.
Clearly we're doing a good job in terms of expanding that and also delivering on it.
We saw at this quarter we did more than last quarter and we continue to try and scale that.
On the development side we're being very selective on what we try and pick up for developments.
It really has to be within our key markets.
we're trying to develop these long-term Tier 1 assets because they've high growth embedded in them.
And it's very difficult to find ones that check all those boxes.
So we want to try and trying to be measured in terms of what we take on in development.
But we're also making sure that we try and look for those opportunities because right now where cap rates are headed.
We don't see a lot of opportunity to create a tremendous amount of value from the acquisition market.
So we're looking from our own portfolio we're looking at acquiring adjacent parcels that may land itself to larger redevelopments overtime and we're also looking at the development side of it.
So I'd like to see us grow on all fronts.
That being said we don't have a target in place.
It's really we're trying to look at every opportunity and make sure it's the right one for Kimco.
And are there any investments that you need to make sort of internally staffing wise.
You already set up for sort of growing that redevelopment pipeline.
We have already made those investments.
We are already staffed up in terms of the development and redevelopment side of the business.
We knew very early on that this was going to be a growing pipeline and made sure that within the regions that we staffed accordingly because we were very active in terms of trying to identify this early on and make sure that we get out ahead of it before the development pipeline gets even larger.
Thank you.
The next question comes from George Auerbach with Credit Suisse.
You took out the equity rates from guidance and replaced it with more asset sales which makes a lot of sense given the way your stock is trading.
How do you think earnings growth trajectory of the company in the near term given the back end loading of dispositions.
Do you think Kimco can be a sort of mid single-digit FFO grower next year or do you see 2016 as being maybe a bit more low growth given the dispositions? Hi it's Glenn.
We started off this year thinking that this was going really be our bridge year and we're performing pretty well where you're going to see pretty decent growth come from it.
You're right we're back ending some of the sales.
But the growth in next year should still be I would say comparable to where we're this year.
Thanks Glenn that's helpful.
I guess as a follow-up should we read into next year's disposition volume given the comments on the call about how healthy is the transaction markets are? Do you think next year we could see a similar level of dispositions or is this year sort of the bulk as we think about the next 18 months? No I don't think you're going to see the same level.
I mean we're talking about total dispositions at our share somewhere between $800 million and a $1 billion for this year.
I don't think it will be anywhere near that next year.
Certainly we're finishing up what we've done in the US.
You will still see us do some level of dispositions.
I think we've - as a company have been very clear about really looking at every asset and where we see risk in that asset or a market moving away.
We've been trying to be aggressive about selling those assets and really focusing on that Tier 1 portfolio.
Great thank you.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey So you guys made an interesting comment about the rent and how that is critical to underwriting deals.
I'm just curious and maybe this is more for our anchor spaces.
But for what percent of your tenants do you have occupancy cost data? And how does that look like and are there any retailers in your list that might screen as maybe too high of an occupancy cost where it might be at risk going forward? It's a good question; I think occupancy cost is one that we watch closely where we have the sales data available.
It's one that is difficult to track when we don't have the sales data obviously.
So unfortunately our portfolio doesn't have a tremendous amount of sales data.
But where we do we feel very comfortable with where this the occupancy cost sits relative to the industry standard.
So we think that we actually have some significant embedded mark-to-market opportunities not only from the existing operator but also just from the open market.
So we try and look we try and track occupancy cost where we have the sales data and we also look at the market rent replacement value just in the open market as well.
So maybe just to follow-up on that.
So any retailers top 20 top 40 list that you think not in trouble today but maybe is heading towards that direction next year.
I think in our sector we're in the sweet spot right now in terms of the occupancy cost because many of the retailers in our Rolodex are actually producing pretty solid same-store sales and you'll see that continue I think through this next cycle.
So we don't see any other dark clouds on the horizon other than the few watch list tenants that we've been watching for a long period of time.
Okay thank you very much.
The next question comes from Samir Khanal with Evercore Looks like you've been trending at about 3.5% on same-store NOI growth year-to-date which is at the higher end of the range.
But you kept the guidance unchanged and I'm just trying to understand if you're just being conservative due to some of the recent store closings or is it just the fact that you're also facing some tough comps.
I know last year in the second half you were sort of 4.5% range.
So can you just provide some color around this? Sure.
Our buyers at this point is more towards the upper end of our range where we've been.
But again you have to look at some of the bankruptcies that have occurred.
So we have to be a little cautious from that standpoint.
But when our buyers is towards the upper end of the range but we don't have enough clarity to sit there and try and raise it at this point.
And the leasing velocity continues to be strong.
I think that even though you see that our small shop occupancy decreased this quarter.
It was really driven by the dispositions and we actually had more small shop leasing volume in the second quarter that we did in the first quarter.
So we feel pretty optimistic that the fundamentals are there.
Right and as a follow-up to that just on the metrics.
I mean your spreads are on a blended basis are trending kind of in the low double digits this time and in the past it'd been high single digits.
I mean one of your peers is been reporting new rent spreads to kind of 40% to 50% increases.
I mean could we see a point where maybe your blended spreads moves up to maybe the mid to high-teens levels as well.
I think you've seen our spreads continue to move up.
If you look past at the last few quarters.
You'll continue to see that trend.
We feel pretty confident that we are continuing to push pricing where we can.
So there is that opportunity to where we're able to recapture space leases that don't have any more options.
That's where we really see a dramatic rent increases and we do have a few of those coming up not only in this year but in the next few years.
And we take some comfort that our sector still is in a recovery mode.
Rents and many markets are still climbing back to their previous highs.
So that gives some tailwind to where we're going.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Jason White with Green Street Advisors Quick question on your kind of percentage of anchor space versus small shop space.
You historically been heavier on the anchor side I think more than roughly three quarters of your spaces anchor space.
I'm curious if that's by design or if that's just what's kind of become of the portfolio overtime and how you kind of think about that going forward? It is something that we actually tout as a differentiator for us because we have 77% of our income coming from our anchors.
It's one that we think we can manage effectively because of the investment grade credit ratings that they receive and we are very conscious of watching how they expand or contract.
We have a national relationships that we can very much take into effect when we're looking for new projects or new developments.
And we think the risk involved with the national anchors is a little bit less than then say the small shop.
So we like the way our portfolio is designed.
We continue to develop asset that have a good mix in anchor tenants as well as some restaurants and some small shop tenants and you'll see that as we continue to try and push the the grocery initiative.
We'll start to become a much more grocery anchored portfolio as we're already over 70% grocery anchor.
Okay so you look at that anchor space being having a point of going forward.
Is it harder kind of ex-redev to push same-store NOI given that small shops turn faster so in an up market you can obviously roll those leases quicker and much market faster than you can anchors is that kind of trade off? I think that's a fair statement.
I think the smaller shops definitely have more turnover more mark-to-market opportunities.
Being said we saw on the last downturn that the small shops for the ones that got hit the hardest.
So we feel like we're trying to position ourselves for the ultimate cycle.
We're feeling pretty confident that where our leases are maturing where the rents are we feel like we have significant mark-to-market opportunities in both small shop and anchor leases.
Great thanks.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill First nice job on getting the Jericho parcel.
Question for you on Canada and harvesting the Albertsons stake.
As you guys obviously love to do that presumably you have this nice game in Albertsons.
Do you think that you can do both simultaneously from an efficiency standpoint or because of structuring things? You'd have to favor one versus the other in terms of timing.
Well let's take both sequentially.
In Canada it's going to be some time before we sell a number of assets up there.
We have a number of joint ventures and just like the US we've identified it a Tier 1 and a Tier 2 group of assets there.
The Tier 2 assets are much easier to put on the market because you generally have consensus with your operating partner.
On the Tier 1 asset it's more of a discussion and it will take more time to do because we're near the tail end of this year what we even start today some of that's going to fall into next year.
So I guess when we look at Canada in harvesting some of those assets in order to provide capital to pay down debt.
It's going to be spread over the next couple years as it is.
When you look at Albertsons even if the IPO is successful there will be a lockout period and Ray can go into that a little bit.
So that's more of a longer term harvesting in our mind.
Yes I mean.
On Albertsons if the IPO does happen in the fall as we hope to be at minimum 180 day lockout to sell any of the shares on the company.
I mean for us duality with Albertsons transaction was when we closing the deal in February nobody thought it'll be seven months going out there as an IPO.
So we're way ahead of the curve in our ability to monetize the investment whether because we're moving up the IPO timing.
Okay but Dave if I hear you correctly then it sounds like the exit from Canada is going to take years whereas the Albertsons could be quicker subject obviously after the 180 days but just subject to normal have the stock.
No I would actually reverse that.
I'm a little more confident that Canada at least not some of those assets can be done relatively quickly over the next let's call it 18 months.
So by the end of next year there will be a significant amount of monetization going on which will help us achieve our targets.
The IPO and the timing of monetization that is a little more an estimate of maybe the backend of next year is when that could start to happen.
I mean it could take time.
Our consortium will still own 855 of the company.
We have to prudently figure out how we're going to monetize investment.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank Just sticking with some of the Albertsons side discussion here.
Just on the rest of the Supervalu stake just curious what the plan is there? We'll probably try to monetize it over the balance of the year which is obviously our plan.
Okay and I guess just in terms of Canada performance.
Curious can you provide some additional color on sort of what you're seeing at the ground level there obviously the company is being impacted and you've got to deal with the target stores.
But just curious what trends you're seeing there more recently? You've got two headwinds for retailers up there.
One is the energy downturn which has impacted employment it's impacted the whole commodity pricing sector has impacted Canada and it's led to softening in many respects in terms of consumer confidence consumer sales and so forth.
Secondly many retailers get their inventory of goods from the US and the strong US Dollar and the quite substantial movement in that US Dollar has really hurt retailer margins in many cases.
Particularly fashion and that has impacted retail sales retail margins retail profitability.
So you've got a few more bankruptcies and liquidations of retailers in Canada right now then we're seeing in the US.
So the fundamentals are definitely a little softer in Canada but we're coming off of 15 years where Canada in many respects was stronger than the US in terms of portfolio occupancy and rents.
It was very solid performer for us.
So it was softened lately and the Target bankruptcy doesn't help but there has been some pretty good demand for the space.
And you're going to see more of it now that these leases have been rejected.
It opens up a more discussion between landlords and users.
As an example many of these Target leases had food restrictions in them.
So the ability for the Wal-Marts of the world and the grocery stores in Canada to bid for the leases there just wasn't that much demand.
So it's not a coincidence that Canadian Tires and Lowe's were the two big purchasers of the Target Canada leases because they didn't have to deal with the food issue.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Paul Morgan with Canaccord Genuity Just talking about the cost business.
I mean you've gone through Supervalu and Albertsons but how are you thinking about kind of the forward-looking side of things.
I mean there is a lots of retailers kind of looking hard at doing something with their real estate and are you out there proactively approaching retailers or if we look at any kind of future deals would they be more you know where you step into a club deals like you've done before? Well it all depends.
I mean club deal for Albertsons.
When you're buying operating company you really want to bring in about other people who have expertise that we might not have.
On that deal we were the experts on the real estate evaluation and help to do that.
But we needed in that case [indiscernible] to help us with the capital structure of the goal concern and bringing the right operator.
But we have done deals and we do look at opportunities to do deal directly with retailers.
We've done small deals in the past we did a deal with Winn-Dixie about a year and half ago.
We got a great a little shopping center in Marathon and development a couple years.
So we look at reaching out through retailers.
We have great relation with them and most of them know that we've been in this business.
I've been here for 15 years but Milton's been doing it for 50 years that we're someone that they can talk to and help them figure out what they can do with their real estate and help monetize it.
And really some things are win-win we're not out there gorging these retailers because ultimately we want them to be around because we wanted to be tenants in our shopping centers.
And so very good relation for them to work with us.
We've seen the Sears REIT Darden [ph] and the other people talking about during REITs and there have been JV's on the mall side with yours in particular.
I mean what do you think about this wave of retailer REIT conversions and whether you might play a role there somehow whether it's from a JV perspective or taking investments stake.
I mean do you have any view on that trend? I mean part of it is one of the issues I've always had with the major factors.
We don't want to take tenants and make them 8% or 10% of our average base rent.
If you do tell me a transaction.
So while these larger deals are really not for us to work on because of that.
But like I said what we do with Winn-Dixie where they have five properties where they're very manageable very good locations.
We can take that.
We can help these guys but they're doing a REIT like here surcharge.
I mean 80% of the properties are malls that's not our business.
And that's where why they work with General Growth and Macerich and others because they really needed them to doing a redevelopment because without the mall developers you really can't develop those sites they're different animal.
We've bought from Sears they had a facility one of our development deals that property that we bought from Sears that we closed on last year.
So we're selectively looking for deals.
I'm not sure we're looking for that headline $100 million $200 million $300 million $500 million deal.
I think we're trying to work around the edges and our main business is you know for Conor and Company to run the main business.
We do want to keep the Plus business a Plus business and we're committed to making the best modest debts and we love these one off opportunities that Ray did mention but when Sims went into bankruptcy we bought one of their better assets out of that.
So we like the smaller opportunities to truly be plus for us and one of the keys to growing this Plus business over the years is to increase the number of relationships we have not only with retailers which we already have but with the private equity and the opportunity funds and the hedge funds which have their own ways to originate opportunities here.
So we want to be the first call from a private equity firm that's tied up a retailer that owns a lot of its own real estate.
We did buy a number of few food stores quietly a year or so ago when real estate in City of New York and so we quietly do our share.
All right thanks.
The next question comes from Michael Mueller with J.P.
Morgan I know you talked about Canada generally but did you mentioned.
How much of the 2015 increased disposition volume is tied to Canada and then Dave I think you talked about being making substantial progress over the next 18 months or so with Canada sales.
Can you put some bill rough numbers around that? I'll let Glenn.
I mean the increase in the disposition guidance about $200 million of it the proceeds will come from Canadian sales.
So that's part of it and then as we look at further dispositions that will come into 2016 another $200 million.
Most of our partners do know that we would like to monetize the lower tier assets as the first step and in some cases.
We're willing to sell to them some upper tier assets as an example you've seen us sell three properties to our partner RioCan which had different plans for those properties then we did overtime and we were in first instance we were actually able to trade the interest that they have in a very nice property in Dallas Fort Worth where we had done an original joint venture with them.
So we were effectively able to buyout their interest in Texas while they bought our interest in three assets in Canada.
So there may be more opportunities to do things like that.
Okay do you expect the 2016 Canada disposition volume to be significantly different from the $200 million this year? I suspect it will be higher yes.
Okay thank you.
Next question comes from Jim Sullivan of Cowen Question on demand kind of two part question.
First of all I think Conor you mentioned recently doing a Planet Fitness deal and as you probably know they have their IPO queued up here and they're talking about very significant level of expansion.
I wonder if you could share with us kind of a how they box might differ from an LA Fitness or 24 Hour Fitness Box and what your appetite is to do more deals with them? I think you mentioned the category there's a growth segment.
And then secondly with regard to small shop occupancy you've talked before about kind of your clicks to bricks initiative.
One of you could just give us an update on any progress or kind of notable deals you've done there that give you grounds for optimism? Sure on Planet Fitness they have been aggressive actually over the past.
I would call 2 years to 3 years.
So their expansion plans continue.
Their pricing point is lower than LA Fitness.
So it's certain demographic they're the perfect user.
They do bring on a traffic and we've seen actually from a co-tendency side of it.
A lot of our retailers who are at first against the health club have actually come around and Sprouts for example is one that actually likes the gym to come into the shopping center because it's the whole health conscious type customer that they're looking to go after.
So you're starting to see that the health clubs become more of a an integral part of that live work play environment that we're trying to create.
And I think Planet Fitness has done a good job in terms of expansion and what they're looking to do going forward.
That being said they're in that size where we have so much demand right now.
We're at 98.4% in our spaces over 10 000 square feet.
And Planet Fitness will be bidding against a lot of these guys that are looking to come in for that same size box.
I see that as being a headwind for their expansion plans but they do run a great operation and we have a number of deals with them and a number other of more deals in the pipeline.
And then on the Clicks to Bricks question.
This is something we've been tracking now for probably close to 5 years and it's a program we've been targeting pure online retailers to come into the physical shopping center world.
The transformation of that eCommerce to the bricks and mortar space has been slow but you're seeing and start to speed up now.
Some of the pure online retailers now opening physical stores.
It haven't necessarily been in the open-air shopping center sector.
It's been more in the high street retail core owners as they're looking to jump into the Soho's of the world to showcase their brand and to have a space to show-off their goods.
That being said there is rumors of Amazon developing a store that we're watching closely in California that actually has a drive-thru attached to it.
So if that comes to fruition it may open a whole slew of new operators to come into our shopping center that would create even more demand sources for us.
So we're watching it closely we're encouraging some of the modern top online players to come in our shopping centers but it has been material of late.
Good thank you.
The next question comes from Rich Moore with RBC Conor I missed a little bit of your initial presentation I got cut off.
But did you mention.
If your small shop leasing target is still 90% for next year.
Is that still what you're headed toward? That's correct.
Okay and in getting to that is it really just a matter of demand by demand for new store opening and how hard you guys work or is it also partly getting some of these redevelopments done maybe adding some anchors to some centers that kind of thing to you can get that kind of push? I think it's a combination of both.
I think our leasing team is really focused on the small shops because we all know that that's really what we have left to push in terms of our same-store NOI growth.
So we have changed some incentives around to make sure that before we might have been more heavily weighted and incentives towards leasing bigger boxes we're now shifting that towards the smaller shops.
And we're also looking at you know our redevelopments when we take down portions of shopping centers.
Typically it's the junior anchors that are stepping up and paying the rents to get the space.
So they are it's a combination of both and yes we're still doing close to 150 small shop deals a quarter.
We don't see that slowing down it's about 50-50 split between regional and national small shop tenants the mom and pop tenants and it's a lot of service based users that we think are sticky the ones that will stay in our shopping centers for the long haul and that's where we see significant annual increase as well coming from the small shops.
From a 50 000 foot level Rich.
We've talked about this before but the whole environment for small shops and small businesses is starting to improve.
Finally the community banks are lending again and your local jewellery store your local dry cleaners they're looking to expand again.
So the bigger national retailers recovered first coming out of the great recession if you will and now small businesses beginning to find its legs and so we benefit across the sector from that as well.
Okay thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley Question on the JVs.
Obviously you've done a lot of effort to your last 1 year or 2 year simplifying the platforms.
Three big JVs last year it looks like Prudential Care and RioCan which maybe you're starting to address here in Canada already but question is what's the status of your conversations with those partners.
Looks like the Pru JV had a lot of debt maturities in 2016 wondering if that could be a catalyst to buying in some of that JV? Yes Pru has made it pretty clear that they're not interested in disposing of their interest in most of the properties we have together with them.
They have a lot of money to put to work they're not interested in monetizing at this point in time and in fact they've been very cooperative in terms of paying off debt on some of the properties that we have together because they'd like in act to put out more money so some of the properties are scheduled become unencumbered.
That said they've also agreed to our concept where we truly have secondary assets in tertiary markets that those should be put on the market and they've cooperated with us in selling those to third parties.
But in terms of buying out their interest in certain properties it's probably not going to happen in the near future.
RioCan we have talked about and I think you'll see that joint venture be reduced over time as we began to identify certain assets that we both think should be sold as well as certain assets where they have plans to convert more to a mixed use or redevelop and those might be opportunities for us to reduce the size of our joint venture.
That said they've been a wonderful partner all the way long.
In terms of Care we've had some discussions but at this point they're inconclusive and as you probably know New York Common is going through a change of leadership in real estate side so it will be a while before they really settle out on their long-term strategy I believe.
But they've also been very cooperative and agreeable about selling assets that we don't fit in that Tier 1 category.
Appreciated the color a follow-up if I may? On redev I think Conor you mentioned earlier pipeline today $1.1 billion.
I'm curious as to how big the correct opportunity the redev opportunity within your current portfolio is today ball park? How large you'd be comfortable growing the redev pipeline either in total dollars or as a percentage of JV? Well $1.1 billion is a gross value that includes the JV properties.
So we've gone pretty deep in each and every asset to see what we can do in terms of unlocking value.
Our redevelopment definition is very simple.
It's changing the square footage changing the footprint of the asset.
So adding density is one that where we're laser focused on trying to add more to the pipeline.
We continue to try and see what we can add to it but it really is typically based off of opportunities that come as we go through the year.
So with lease maturities if tenants for example going after size options all of a sudden that triggers redevelopment opportunity that we didn't necessarily think was actionable.
So one just recently happened and we're adding it to the redevelopment pipeline in addition to potentially looking for more of a mixed use approach to it as well as looking at other opportunities that we have yet to really to the redevelopment pipeline.
So that's how we look at it.
Appreciated.
The next question comes from Christopher Lucas with Capital One Securities Kind of follow-up on the last question.
Conor you did talk about the ways of growing the redevelopment program beyond the $1.1 billion and I guess given the success you had so far I was just wondering if one of the ways you can grow that is to literally just change how you're thinking about the underwriting given again the success you've had so far? Well it's a good point I mean rents are definitely moving up.
So the returns that come along with those higher rents definitely justify more projects and we're looking at that.
In addition to adding potentially some mixed use opportunities that we have yet to really add.
So we're trying to dive through the portfolio and also looking at new acquisitions that have redevelopment potential.
So some of the ones we've been looking at I think now have to have redevelopment component for us to really get excited about.
So you're right on there that as we look at returns.
We might start to look at other opportunities as rents have moved up now it start to make more sense.
Great thanks a lot.
Our next question is a follow-up from George Auerbach with Credit Suisse Great thanks.
Just quickly on the sales in Canada and the Albertsons stake overtime.
Is there any way to shield or manage through the taxable gains in those investments? Or do you just sort of pay the taxes and move on and that's it? Well actually we do have some room in terms of handling.
In Canada so there's two components to the tax there is a Canadian tax that has to get paid on the gains.
So you do have an actual cash tax that occurs in Canada and then there's the remaining piece that will flow back into our US entity.
So it's all the matter of how we shield that now we have done a lot of analysis about doing cost EC studies and other things like that repair regs analysis that give us a lot more depreciation expense from a tax standpoint to help manage it.
In addition we have been doing a lot more 1031 exchanges on the assets that we sold in the US.
So although we've been reporting a lot of gains in US from a taxable standpoint they're actually being deferred.
So we have a pretty sizable bucket to be able to deal with the gains that will come.
Great thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thanks Chad and to everybody that participated in our call today.
As a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental that is posted on our website.
Have a good day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Kimco's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to David Bujnicki Vice President.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning and I thank you all for joining Kimco's third quarter earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; David Henry Chief Executive Officer; Conor Flynn President and Chief Operating Officer; Glenn Cohen CFO; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking and it is important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to the Company's SEC filings that address such factors.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help to investors better understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Before we begin allow me to remind everyone that Kimco is hosting an Investor Day on December 10th in New York City at the Palace Hotel.
If you haven't signed up there's still time to RSVP to this event.
Please contact my office and we'll send the invitation to you.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Henry for his final prepared remarks as CEO of Kimco.
I believe his office furniture is being inventoried as we speak.
I'm pretty sure I saw Glenn in there eyeing my couch.
Good morning and thank you all for calling in today.
As I prepare to pass the baton to Conor on January 1 and after 59 earnings calls over the last 15 years permit me to give you a few personal thoughts.
First it has been a sincere pleasure to personally meet and spend time over the years with most of the analysts and investors on the call today.
Everyone has been gracious and thoroughly engaging while unabashedly providing me and their team their thoughts and opinions.
This has been enormously helpful to me and our Company.
Second I'd like to emphasize the strengths and advantages of Kimco from a very high level as I see them.
The firm founded by Milton and Artie Kimmel more than 55 years ago is a retail powerhouse in terms of its size diversification balance sheet dividend safety national scale tenant relationships and industry contacts.
We're the retail partner of choice for many private equity and institutional owners of both retail operating companies and retail property assets.
Our opportunistic culture and investing disciplines have resulted in many wonderfully profitable investments for our shareholders.
Most recently our sale of Supervalu stock and the pending Albertson's IPO.
Third the investment world sometimes in my opinion focuses a little bit too much on a simple metric as a proxy for the prospects of a REIT or the quality of its portfolio.
In our case it has been and will continue to be a deeper story of corporate financial strength size scale and a culture totally focused on creating value for our shareholders.
We have more properties more local offices more individual tenants and more retailer relationships than any of our peers.
And combined with one of the lowest dividend payout ratios in the industry and our strong BBB plus investment balance sheet we stand second to none.
Our portfolio after more than $5 billion of retail property sales and close to $5 billion of retail property acquisitions over the past five years now consists of a very broad group of very high quality properties in excellent long-term growth markets with numerous very accretive redevelopment prospects.
Now stepping down off the soapbox and focusing on our third quarter we're pleased to report excellent financial results for the quarter.
Together with a dividend increase of 6.3% and a guidance increase.
As usually Glenn and Conor will discuss the specific details while Milton will close with some general thoughts.
Overall both our earnings and portfolio fundamentals are solid.
Helped by the portfolio upgrade accomplished through the sale of our lower tier retail assets and numerous high quality acquisitions.
The open air property sector in general continues to have bright prospects due to limited new supply and the continued expansion of both national discounters and service-oriented retailers.
Most of our top tenants are committed to significant store expansion plans and effective rents and leasing spreads are rising markedly.
With respect to our corporate strategy our U.S.
property dispositions will be largely completed this year and we have moved quickly in Canada taken advantage of historic low cap rates by selling 19 properties to our Rio Kim joint-venture partner with 26 additional sale properties pending totaling CAD774 million Canadian.
22 of the additional 26 properties are being sold to either third parties or other Canadian joint-venture operating partners.
Due to today's low cap rates compared to the high cap rates when we entered Canada in 2002 we have substantial gains embedded in our portfolio and we have structures our transactions to reduce the tax effects as much as possible.
As such our exit from Canada will be measured but we do expect to have largely monetized our Canadian assets during 2016.
At that point Kimco will be totally focused on the U.S.
and we will self-manage virtually all of our properties.
We continue to feel very positive for at least the next several years about the underlying fundamentals of our open-air retail properties and the markets we've chosen to focus on.
E-commerce has been effectively incorporated into brick and mortar store operations as show rooms last mile delivery and brand awareness become more and more critical to successful retail businesses.
I do hope everyone took note of Amazon's announcement on Tuesday that they have opened their first full brick and mortar store in Seattle.
Amazon has now formally recognized that the omnichannel concept is very successful and that physical stores are important components of growth even for e-commerce retailers.
As a quick update on the Albertson's IPO the actual IPO S1 filing remains open to provide future timing flexibility.
Store operations also continue to perform well and the integration of Safeway and Albertson's has progressed very smoothly.
Now I'd like to turn to Glenn Connor and Milton for their thoughts.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our third quarter 2015 results were strong with significant progress made on the disposition and simplification fronts.
Even with some headwinds from the bankruptcy of Anna's Linens and A&amp;P our overall portfolio operating metrics continued to produce solid results.
Headline FFO per share which represents the official name redefinition and what's used for first-call consensus was $0.$0.40 for the third quarter $0.$0.03 above consensus.
Included in the headline amount is the further monetization of our Supervalu stock investment which provided a gain of $6.1 million our plus business at work and $7.6 million from profit participation earned from the sales of the Canadian preferred equity investment.
For the 9 months headline FFO per share is $1.21 up from &amp;1.07 for the same period last year a 13.1% increase.
FFO adjusted per share or recurring FFO which excludes transactional income expense and non-operating impairments was $0.36 for the third quarter.
Same level as reported in the third quarter last year.
Our results include an increase in recurring consolidated EBITDA of $6.3 million driven primarily by the operating portfolio which was offset by prior interest of $2.5 million related to debt-assumed connection of the Kimstone acquisition earlier in the year.
For the nine months FFO adjusted per share is $1.09 up from &amp;1.05 for the comparable period last year a 3.8% increase.
We're pleased that we have successfully continued to grow our earnings while dramatically transforming the portfolio with sales in the U.S.
Mexico Latin America and Canadian asset sales totaling over $1.4 billion over the past 12 months.
We have mitigated much of the diluted impact with the acquisition of over 2 billion U.S.
properties in our key markets many of which resource from our joint venture programs and from reduced debt costs with well-timed debt refinancings.
Our portfolio operating metrics remain solid.
U.S.
pro rata occupancy stands at 95.6% up 10 basis points from the year ago.
The bankruptcy of Anna's Linens nicked occupancy by 20 basis points this quarter.
The team is focused on filling these boxes over the coming months.
Breaking it down further our anchor boxes are 98.3% leased up 10 basis points from a year ago and small shop occupancy is 88% up 100 basis points from a year ago.
Our leasing team continues to deliver strong leasing spreads with new leases up 28.6% and renewals and options up 6.2% for combined positive leasing spreads of 10.6 for the quarter.
U.S.
NOI growth was 2.4% for the third quarter compared to a 4.9% comp last year.
Bringing our U.S.
same-site NOI growth to the 9 months to 3% in line with our guidance range of 3% to 3.5% for the full year.
The key driver for our same-site NOI growth has been the increase in minimum rent of 3% and improved recoveries and other revenues which added another 42 basis points.
Same-site NOI growth was negatively impacted by 46 points due to higher credit loss reserves acquired primarily from the bankruptcies previously mentioned.
Combined same site NOI growth including Canada but excluding the negative 150 basis point impact of currency was 2.2% for the third quarter and 2.8% for the nine months.
For a few comments on balance sheet and capital market activity.
We remain confident that we will reach our goal of six times consolidated net debt through recurring EBITDA by year end without the need for any common equity.
This will be a swift improvement from the 6.6 times level at the end of the first quarter.
We ended the third quarter at 6.3 times the same as last quarter.
We had anticipated closing the first part of the RioCan sale by September 30 but due to regulatory issues we did not complete the transaction until the beginning of October.
Consolidated net debt to EBITDA on a pro forma basis including the sale of RioCan would be 6.1 times.
Subsequent to quarter end we successfully tapped the volatile bond market issuing a $500 million seven-year bond at a coupon of 3.4% with a spread right on top of our secondaries.
Proceeds will be used to pay higher coupon debt.
The issuance of addresses our remaining maturities in 2015 of $169 million and more than a third of the maturities due in 2016.
In addition we have immediate liquidity in excess of $1.9 billion as of today with cash on hand and $1.7 billion available on our revolving credit facility.
We also announced the redemption of our $175 million 6.9% class A preferred stock which will occur on November 25.
We will record a $5.8 million non-cash charge related to redemption in the fourth quarter which will impact our headline FFO.
Proceeds from our anticipated sales mentioned in our press release will be used to fund the redemption.
The redemption will result in reduction of our fixed charges by $12.1 million annually.
Based on our solid results through the first nine months and expectations through the remainder of the year we're raising our headline FFO per share guidance to $1.54 to $1.57 which includes the redemption charge mentioned above and minimal additional transaction for the fourth quarter.
We're also tightening our FFO as adjusted per share guidance range to $1.44 to $1.46 from the previous guidance range.
Guidance for 2016 will be provided at our Investor Day in December.
Lastly we're pleased to announce that based on our 2015 performance our Board of Directors has improved an increase in the cash dividend to $0.255 cents per quarter up from $0.24 an increase of 6.3% on an annualized basis.
Our FFO payout ratio will remain conservative in the mid-60s % range among the lowest in our peer group.
Before I turn it over to Conor I want to thank Dave Henry for all his support and mentorship and advice over the past decade and a half.
Dave has fostered a terrific culture at Kimco with an approach of treating everyone with the utmost respect.
Dave keeps a saying on his desk which describes him perfectly.
It says it is nice to be important but it is more important to be nice.
Dave is a terrific leader and a truly nice guy.
We will miss him.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everyone.
Today I'll start by recapping progress on our key metrics followed by an update on acquisitions and dispositions and finish with an overview of our strategic development and redevelopment pipeline.
Overall the fundamentals of the open air shopping center business remain healthy due to the supply and demand balance.
While the bankruptcy filings of Anna's Linens Hagens and A&amp;P will add to the supply side the demand for quality real estate continues to far outweigh this factor as evidence by the amount of bidders during these bankruptcy proceedings.
Four of our nine A&amp;Ps were recaptured by Kimco and the remaining five were purchased by Acme.
These bankruptcies will create near-term headwinds to occupancy and same-site NOI but given our strategy on focusing on great real estate with below market rents our shareholders will achieve long-term value as we mark-to-market these leases and continue to redevelop our assets.
Turning to our major metrics 10 basis points to 95.6% due to negative net absorption and the disposition of 15 stabilized shopping centers.
Small shop occupancy remained flat up 100 basis points from prior year.
Anchor occupancy dipped 10 basis points over last quarter to 98.3%.
The 22 Anna's Linens boxes recaptured this quarter provide an extended runway to allow our team to unlock value and take advantage of the upside due to the 10% to 20% mark-to-market opportunities embedded in these low average rent lease bases.
Our combined leasing spreads continue the trend over 10% a strong indicator that pricing power is intact in our key markets.
Same site NOI of 2.4% in the U.S.
was driven primarily by minimum rent increases higher than expected percentage rent but muted by higher than expected credit loss due to the bankruptcies mentioned earlier.
The majority of retailers in our sector have significant new store opening plans and multiple size prototypes.
A few examples of new innovative off price concepts include Find at Lord and Taylor and Lemon Pop by Charlotte Russe.
These retailers are adding to the already crowded field looking for high-quality space and driving up rents.
In addition we have welcomed new tenants this quarter such as Sephora.
That will add a vibrant retail mix in our open air shopping centers.
Small shop leasing shows signs of acceleration as we have seen the mom and pop retailer return accounting for nearly half of the small shop leases this quarter.
We continue to execute on our transformation and simplification with the previously announced closing of the 100% entries in Montgomery Square in Fort Worth as well as the acquisition of our partner's interest in Conroe Marketplace located in the Houston MSA subsequent to quarter end.
Both of these transactions result in further consolidation of our joint venture properties and give us buying opportunities in key strategic markets in a challenging acquisition environment.
We also acquired three parcels adjacent to our top assets as we look to expand our footprint where we see future redevelopment opportunity.
The acquisition market remains competitive for high quality core assets.
While we search for value add opportunities we continue to be selective.
The disposition market remains healthy but showing signs of stabilizing with buyers still on the hunt for yield.
In the third quarter we sold 14 triple net assets and 15 shopping centers totaling 1.8 million square feet generating $104 million in Kimco share proceeds at a blended cap rate of 6.9%.
Buyers of these assets are taking advantage of the readily available financing of up to 80% loan to value with floating interest rates at all-time lows which generates significant cash-on-cash returns.
Buyers this quarter include public and private institutions including REITS and local private buyers.
Currently in the U.S.
we have 17 assets under contract for $208 million 13 accepted offers totaling $172 million and another 22 assets in the market that will complete our transformation by year end and produce another $400 million of gross proceeds.
Steady progress continues to be made on our redevelopment and development pipelines.
This quarter we completed $36.5 million of redevelopments with blended incremental ROI of 9.9%.
Redevelopment activity added 10 basis points to same site NOI this quarter.
A new lease with Safeway and Pacifica California was executed in the third quarter moving that grocery redevelopment in the Bay Area up to the active category.
Currently the redevelopment pipeline has a gross value of just over $1.1 billion with a total of $269 million in active redevelopment with another $734 million in designer entitlement and $122 million that is under review.
In addition to our four developmental projects due to robust retailer demand at our Grand Parkway project this quarter we purchases the adjacent 35-acre land parcel to accommodate a phase 2.
In closing year-over-year average base rent per square foot is up 6.2% and we continue to push toward unlocking more of the embedded value in our portfolio.
In the third quarter Kimco was inducted in to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We're proud to be the only retail REIT in the index and it highlights our ongoing commitment to become a leader in corporate responsibility and sustainability as we evolve in to the next generation REIT.
Finally I'd like to express how grateful and appreciative I am have to have had the opportunity to work with Dave for close to 15 years.
He's been a mentor a sounding board a guide post and a dear friend that I truly value.
Thanks to Dave and his leadership Kimco is well position today continue to deliver for our shareholders and become the leader in our industry.
I'll turn it over to Milton for his final comments.
Thank you Conor.
During my lifetime I've seen many cycles and I've always felt that you had to prepare for the downturns.
So at this point I've examined our portfolio in light of a possible future downturn and I feel confident that on a relative basis we're in the sweet spot of retail real estate ownership.
Retail real estate is defensive and with any downturn but with great opportunity during the up cycles.
In tough times all price retailers should do well.
Our portfolio contains many off price retailers including TJX Ross Stores Burlington Coat and Nordstrom Rack in over 200 locations.
There is a food component in the 71.4% of our centers.
We're the largest owner of Costco and Home Depot sites with 12 Costcos and 28 Home Depots.
Credits that are very strong.
Our top five tenants are TJX Home Depot Bed Bath and Beyond Royal Aho and Walmart.
Most of our tenants sell low cost everyday essential items.
No retailer will be immune from a downturn but I think we're well positioned.
And we have an experienced energetic executive team that is passionate about our business and focused on creating and managing value in our portfolio.
So I face the future with confidence.
I too would like to mention a few words about Dave.
Dave has been my partner for the past 14 years.
He has a wonderful way about him.
He is sensitive a great people person and has always had a sense of doing the right thing.
You would never ever hear Dave say-- well that's business.
We will miss him.
We wish him well and we're so pleased that we will have Dave available to us to share his sagacity with us.
All the best Dave.
And as a final comment and to echo Dave Bujnicki all of us at Kimco would very much love to see all of you at our Investor Day on December 10.
With that we're delighted to answer any questions you may have.
We're ready to move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Due to the large volume of participants in the queue we request a one-question limit with an appropriate followup.
This will provide all our callers an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to re-join the queue.
You may take the first caller.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Christine McElroy CitiBank.
Following up on the exit from Canada you have the RioCan transaction done.
You have the additional 26 under contract.
What's your best estimated range of the level of proceeds on the remaining Canadian assets that you expect to monetize in 2016? And can you maybe walk us through your expectations for the tax impact what the cap rates look like both pre and post-tax and expectations around reinvestment of proceeds as we head in to next year? I know it's a lot but just trying to get a sense for all the moving parts.
Let me give you a high level then I think Ross Cooper who has worked with me and Kelly Smith who runs our Canadian operations the three of us have been knee deep in our exit from Canada and we have had some excellent progress.
I think as we reported we've got in addition to the 19 we've already closed we've got another four that we will sell to RioCan by the end of the year.
And then there's 22 others that will be sold either to third parties or to other joint venture operating partners the biggest one being Anthem properties.
We have more than 20 properties with Anthem and those properties will all be sold during next year and the total proceeds will be under CAD800 million.
I think we're going to average about a 6 cap rate before tax.
And tax I think we're still working on various tax strategies so Glenn can probably comment better on giving you a rough guess on the tax effect but we're managing this as best we can to avoid any kind of special dividend.
We do have large embedded gains thanks to the timing of our entry in Canada and the hard work our operating partners have done up there.
The market remains very strong for A Properties in Canada with cap rate in the 5 for the As.
Secondary assets or secondary locations the cap rates have widened a bit I'd say to the higher part of 6s but the average I think if you wanted a rough average for us a 6 would be a good number.
With that Ross do you have any other color? Dave pretty much mentioned the high level but essentially what we have currently either under contract or under negotiation on a gross basis is about $1.2 billion so the Kimco proceeds share of that is about $770 million before debt.
With that we'll be pretty much done with about 80% of the total NOI contribution from Canada with those transactions that were announced.
We'll have about 20% left which is plus or minus $240 $250 million of proceeds thereafter.
It's Glenn.
You asked about the tax implications.
We've dealt with most of the tax implications for this year.
That's why we've kind of staged where we're with what we've sold into RioCan.
The taxes are roughly around 12.5% of the gain.
So that gets paid off in Canada.
We get that as a deduction in the U.S.
against our own REIT income so we feel pretty comfortable with where we're.
It won't be certainly an issue for 2015's dividend.
There's no requirement for a special dividend or special distribution and we feel comfortable as we start to look into '16 that we can deal with those gains as well.
We've done a lot to accelerate tax depreciation we've done what's called cost segregation studies to bifurcate the way the assets are and the timing of when you depreciate those assets.
Overall when you put it all together we feel pretty comfortable that there's no requirement for special distribution.
Christi it's Dave Bujnicki.
I just want to comment also on what Ross mentioned.
When he talked about the 80% of the NOI that's the 26 plus those 19 assets that we sold in October so collectively in total that's what represents 80% of our Canadian NOI.
Next question comes from Ross Nussbaum UBS.
Jeremy here.
Just to be clear after the next billion or so of sales either on the contract or accepted offers there's only another $250 million of sales left at this point that you'd consider non-core is that right? In Canada yes.
What about I guess the U.S.
and after this $350 million? The U.S.
for the rest of this year for Q4 we have about $400 million left to sell which is either under contract or accepted offers where due diligence has already begun.
Thereafter starting in early 2016 and beyond our disposition program really turns in to more of an asset management function and pruning just the bottom percentage of the portfolio on an ongoing basis.
So you may see 150 plus or minus million per year of disPOs [ph] but that's ongoing management not any need to sell or additional transformation that needs to be done.
Okay.
Then just one question here for Conor.
In your opening remarks you mentioned dispositions the disposition market was healthy but stabilizing.
I'm just wondering if you could give a little more color around that statement.
By stabilizing do you mean it's not as heated as maybe it once was earlier this year even last year? I think you interpreted that correctly.
I think that we've seen that there's plenty of buyers still out there looking for high quality real estate and chasing yield but the amount of bidders seems to have tapered off a little bit.
But there's still very high quality bidders in that pool as well.
So we haven't seen any changes in terms of pricing.
You saw the cap rate on our dispositions is in the sixes now and it continues to be going further down so we think that it's stabilizing just because maybe there's less froth in the market to chase after these assets.
The next question comes from Lina Rudashevski JPMorgan.
Just on the 22 Anna's Linens can you talk about the downtime expected in getting those released and you said they were under market.
What rent per square foot on average were you getting on that? Sure I'll take that one.
Our average base rent on the 22 Anna's Linens is $15.28.
We project that to be anywhere from 15% to 20% below market.
Of the 22 we have 19 active deals and negotiation with tenants such as Buffalo Wild Wings Forever 21 Old Navy Chipotle Guitar Center.
We think there's a pretty positive impact we can capture in the near terms between 6 to 12 months that we'll be able to reposition the majority of these boxes.
We have plenty of opportunity to capture the upsize and mark-to-market those rents.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim SunTrust.
Just to follow up on the last question did that Anna's Linens box store closures impact your small shop or is that above 10 000 square feet? It did have a 30 basis point small shop impact this quarter.
So if you look at that impact in addition to the sales of the stabilized dispositions our small shop occupancy would be up quite a bit versus flat.
That's why I mentioned we see the small shop health recovering nicely.
I guess that's kind of hard to gather from the press releases but thanks for that color.
Could you maybe comment on what do you think the pace will look like as we head in to 2016 given how full your anchor boxes are? We still have our target of 90% of small shops which we think is achievable especially once the disposition program winds down.
Many of the assets we're selling today are either 100% occupied or near that mark so if you take that out of the shuffling of the portfolio we think 90% is achievable by the end of next year and we see the volume in terms of the pending deal is significant and continues to improve.
The next question comes from Ryan Peterson Sandler O'Neil.
Just a question on the A&amp;P leases.
Can you give us an idea of the magnitude of the mark to market there and were all of those considered to be below market or is it just in total that they average out to be below market? Sure.
Let me walk you through that.
Of our nine A&amp;P leases four of them were bought by Acme.
One of them was bought by Best Yet.
The four that were recaptured one we purchased in the auction because we wanted to control that real estate.
In Staten Island we think there's significant opportunity.
We redeveloped 90% of the asset with a brand new Target that's on a ground lease.
So the last piece of this will be that path mark box that we can reposition there and there's significant upside in that rent.
Just to give you an idea the current rent is $3.78.
The second box in Staten Island that we're recapturing is in Highland Boulevard.
We thinks this is going to be a 2017 redevelopment.
We're going to be adding close to 100 000 square feet.
And that rent is significantly below market as well.
The other two Home Dale New Jersey.
We think there's up side there.
There's plenty of operators that are looking to recapture those boxes.
So in those four that we're recapturing we think there's a blend at 30% to 40% below market opportunity.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt Bank of America.
My question returns back to the AMP.
Is it possible these spaces could be broken up and achieve higher rents or do you need to keep the boxes whole? I'm assuming it doesn't necessarily have to be reuse of a grocer.
You're right on there.
Most of the boxes we see as potential splits or redevelopments there are plenty of operators that are bidding on this basis to keep it at one box so we're going to continue to look at the highest invest use and best returns on the repositioning.
There's plenty of opportunity here to go with a grocery component or a non-grocery component.
There's tremendous expansions for off price retailers today.
Especially some of the newer concepts that are very aggressive in the Northeast and trying to gain market share so we're in a great spot here to really wait and see what's the highest and best use for the asset and look at the economics of either repositioning it by splitting it with a grocer or without a grocer.
And the one that you acquired what's the relationship with the other three then going forward? The one that we acquired we wanted to control that real estate.
We have 10 retailers that are bidding on the asset right now.
We wanted to actually be in the position to be able to pick the retailer and the highest and best use there.
That's the one in Staten Island that I mentioned earlier.
The other three had very limited term on them.
So there weren't many bidders looking to recapture those boxes.
Even though the real estate is of high quality retailers weren't bidding on it because of the relative term left on those leases without any options.
We felt we were in a good position to recapture without bidding in the auction process.
The next question comes from Paul Morgan Canaccord.
Just like to echo everybody's sentiments.
Dave best of luck.
It's been a pleasure working with you over the years.
And just in terms of Canada and the net proceeds how should we think about your ability to reinvest in net proceeds well both Canada and other remaining dispositions over the course of a year.
You've had a lot of success rolling cash back in to acquisitions with your partners consolidating those.
Is that still a big opportunity or how should we think about your ability to kind of mass use the proceeds? That's a good question I think we have still a tremendous opportunity to reinvest those proceeds first in redevelopment.
We're seeing tremendous returns and our assets that we put those redevelopment projects in place.
They may have some near-term drag on our same-site NOI but we think the long-term NAV appreciation there is significant and still the best use of our capital.
There will still be an opportunity I think to buy some of our JV partners' interest out in the years ahead but it probably won't be on the same scale as it was this year with Blackstone.
We'll also then look to look at reducing debt levels further.
I think our balance sheet is very strong but we can always make it stronger.
We're in a nice position to be able to look at the highest and best use of our capital going forward.
Is that potential cash -- unrealized gain from Albertson's kind of complicate the way you look at the amount of cash you'll have as you look over the next year or two? The nice thing about the Albertson's investment is that we'll have a marketable security that we'll be able to control when we want to sell.
They're a great strategic partnership.
Honestly the Albertson's transaction for us is truly what we talked about.
It's the plus.
It's going to provide a lot of capital for an investment that from an FFO standpoint doesn't produce anything.
It's got a lot of value a lot of NAV but from an earnings standpoint it doesn't produce anything because we sit on the cost method with it so it's just plus and will provide us capital to put in to redevelopments pay down debt and help generate further recurring flows.
Next question comes from Jim Sullivan Cowen.
I've got a question for Conor really on the redevelopment pipeline.
You've talked for a while now about having a backlog or shadow pipeline of a billion plus.
Would you have an active redevelopment about a quarter of a billion.
I'm just curious as you think about this going forward it's been a point of emphasis that you want to expand this.
I'm just curious if there's a number in terms of an amount or percentage of the market cap that you're going to kind of consciously limit yourself to in terms of having it under active redevelopment.
It's a good question.
I don't think we have a target percentage of market cap we're looking to achieve.
It's an opportunistic play for us.
We continue to try to mine the portfolio.
From redevelopment opportunities.
We're just getting start would identifying a billion 1 in redevelopment opportunities.
You see with the recent bankruptcies some of these projects we didn't have in our redevelopment pipeline.
As retail shifts and as the portfolio changes we look to acquire assets.
We look at our existing assets where we can acquire parcels to add projects.
We really want this to be a cornerstone of our strategy.
It continues to grow and we think there's more opportunity embedded in our portfolio.
Also the redevelopment pipeline is really one of the best uses of capital we have.
The returns far exceed what the acquisition market has to offer today and we like to put on as many as we can.
It's really the mining process and the timing to get whatever permits you need lighting for tenants.
We're going to just keep adding to it as we go because things cycle off.
We build them we get them up and going we keep trying to mine more and more.
It's a great use of our capital.
Kind of a related followup to that we have seen over the course of the last couple of quarters that a number of department stores are introducing their own off-price concepts this year.
We've seen it with Macy's Bloomingdale's more recently Kohl's and Lord And Taylor.
I wonder if you can share with us how aggressive you expect how aggressive you think these retailers will be in terms of expanding this in a portfolio like yours.
If you look at the department store model it's completely changed.
The off price concept has been a vehicle for growth.
So a perfect example is Nordstrom.
Nordstrom is one where the department store is still doing quite well but the vehicle for growth has always been the Nordstrom Rack and they continue to try to add store count and up their expansion plans.
I think Macy's and others are actually taking a page out of their playbook.
That's where you see the ramp up of expansion.
Macy's is trying to add more stores and believes their off price concept is their vehicle for growth.
I think this trend will continue.
We've seen the tremendous success of TJX and Ross.
They see today's shopper is really focused on trying to find that deal trying to take advantage of that treasure hunt and they've done a good job in terms of merchandising their stores and we think it's a great plus for our business because they continue to add to the demand.
The next question comes from Geprge Auerbach Credit Suisse.
Glenn just to clarify the net tax impacts from the Canada sales is only 12.5% of the game but that's largely awash because of the credits you estimate tax income? Just trying to think about it any tax leaks from the Canada sales.
It's not really awash because we get a deduction not a credit the way it works on our own read.
So you do have the the deduction we're getting as it relates to our U.S.
REIT comes in to play relative to our dividends paid reduction but the cash you actually have that goes out in Canada is the 12.5% of the gain.
The next question comes from Chris Lucas Capital One Securities.
I guess what I'm wondering is if maybe you could give some color on where you guys sit with spaces that are under a year vacant versus those that have been vacant for a while and trying to understand where you sit with that.
And where you're seeing the mom and pop tenants going in terms of the space breakout between those recently vacated versus the longer vacated space.
Sure.
The small shop acceleration I think is just continued over the past few quarters.
You're continuing to see many of the services as well as the restaurants expand rapidly.
Quick service restaurants have been one of the fastest growing components of our small shops.
You're also seeing it in some of the dollar stores.
Five Below there's still plenty of opportunity there in addition to Old Navy and others.
But we've seen that really the boost is coming from the services and that's great for us because those tenants are stickier.
You're also seeing some impact from the medical players.
The urgent care centers the dentists the optometrists.
All those continue to expand.
And your question about the small shop velocity one year vacant versus less than one year vacant it really is because we've sold so much of our portfolio the spaces that have been vacant a long period of time are typically in those sites that we've sold so the ones that have been vacant for a significant amount of time we see just as much activity on the ones that have just recently become vacant because our centers are now much higher quality and dense areas where there's a lot of demand and not quite as much shop space available.
So we're confident that we can deliver in terms of our small shop occupancy gains and points about 90% by the end of next year.
Our next question comes from Rich Moore RBC Capital Markets.
First Dave I want to congratulate you on a great run at Kimco and of course good luck in whatever your next adventure is.
Conor my question for you is with the recent issues that some of the tenants have been having across the retail space how do you feel about your long-term goal of 3% plus for same-store NOI growth as we go forward? The 3% plus target is one we feel confident we can achieve mainly because of our strategy of buying great real estate with great market rents.
This is really how Kimco is built.
We think embedded value in our portfolio is significant in the market opportunities and potential opportunities we have.
Either identify or ones we're working on identifying.
We still feel the opportunity is there for us to harvest that embedded growth and showcase that we can produce the 3%.
The portfolio is a lot different today than it was just even a few years ago.
If you look at our concentration across the country we're really focused on the top growing markets that have diverse economies high educated high affluence and really a tremendous opportunity for us to continue to improve the tenants improve the credit of the retailers as well as the rent.
So we think we're in a perfect spot to take advantage of this opportunity where the open air shopping center has really become the most in demand in terms of the retailer spectrum.
Okay.
So no loss of confidence from the recent kind of softness in the retailer market.
It's really the softness I think circled around a few tenants we've been watching for many many years and we think that the watch list we have continues to be one of the shortest we've ever had in our history so with the new retailer concepts coming out as well as the opportunity for us to reposition some of these assets we still feel confident.
The next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste Morgan Stanley.
My question is on Walmart.
A top five tenant of yours.
We've heard incrementally negative news from them recently as they grapple with competition both on the ground and from the internet slowing the pace of openings of some of their smaller and their larger stores while continuing to close their medium size stores.
Curious what you're hearing and seeing from them and potential implications for your portfolio.
Walmart is clearly still a dominant force from the retail world today.
Their neighborhood market stores have been positively.
Their supercenter is still a dominant force that they're looking to expand.
We were sitting down with them recently and when we went through our portfolio they were cautiously optimistic that we could do a lot more together in the future in terms of redevelopment or development.
So it's a tenant that is clearly going through some growing pains.
They're looking to see where their growth is coming from and they have a number of different formats now as well as trying out some new opportunities where they're going to be putting some delivery kiosks in department FEELGD.
They have a number of different sized prototypes to help them penetrate markets that might have kept out the super center before.
Plus their credit is still Double-A.
Tough to argue with Double-A credit.
We still feel confident that they're a player for the long haul.
They've been putting a lot of money in to the omni channel.
Clearly they've been going up against Amazon.
And I think hopefully this holiday season is a positive one for them.
They mentioned in their Investor Day that revenues are going to keep expanding where their NOI is going to be hurt in the short-term they're going to have to on the payroll side they've agreed they're trying to pay their employees a little bit better.
But they see themselves in three or four years getting back to the same NOI growth that it had previously and they're a big battle ship.
It's hard to turn.
They're really working hard to do the right thing and be proactive.
They're big.
A lot of these other retailers will do nothing and they're in bankruptcy in five years because they haven't done it.
They're trying to be proactive to see what the customer wants.
They're willing to take a little short-term pain to get there.
And maybe thought the most appropriate followup but curious if you share thoughts on leasing spread.
It's bounced around the last couple quarters but generally been in the low digits.
Curious how we should think about that the next few quarters.
We think those leasing spreads are achievable going forward.
Clearly it will depend.
Leasing spreads can be tricky because depending on the amount of population in there one deal can throw it off.
But we feel confident if you look forward a few quarters we don't see the supply and demand changing in our sector.
We see there's plenty of opportunity for us to continue on that path.
Even on the renewal side and option side you're seeing mid-single digit running like in the 6% range on just [indiscernible].
So it's pretty possible.
Our next question comes from Linda Tsai Barclays.
When you look at your watch list of retailers that have potential to do you think it will be higher or lower than this year? It seems like you have a good handle on topic.
Assuming your 2015 same-site NOI guidance is unchanged in 4q you're looking for reasonable that would still get you to the midpoint of guidance.
We run pretty reasonable credit loss reserves when doing our budgeting process.
The credit loss [indiscernible] you saw in this quarter is specifically tied to a tenant that filed for bankruptcy that we have cam bills that haven't been paid but our overall reserves covered most of that.
As we look in to 16 as Conor mentioned the watch list is relatively short.
We don't see mass amounts of bankruptcies happening.
If they did it would definitely impact us like it would impact everybody else but we feel pretty confident about the reserve levels we have today.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to David Bujnicki for any closing remarks.
Thank to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental as posted on our website and we look forward to seeing you all at our Investor Day in December.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Kimco Realty Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Bujnicki Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Dan and good morning and I thank you all for joining Kimco's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me on the call this morning are Milton Cooper our Executive Chairman; Conor Flynn President and Chief Executive Officer; Glenn Cohen our CFO; as well as other key executives who will be available to address questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
As a reminder statements made during the course of this call may be deemed forward-looking.
It is important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer the Company's SEC filings that address such factors.
During this presentation management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe help investors understand Kimco's operating results.
Examples include but are not limited to funds from operations and net operating income.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Conor.
Good morning.
First I’d like to thank Milton and the Board for giving me the opportunity to lead this incredible company.
At our recent Investor Day we laid out our 20/20 vision.
Underscoring the work we have done over the last several years to position Kimco to take full advantage of the evolving landscape of open air retail and become a leader in our industry.
Our team has executed over the past few years dramatically transforming the portfolio from a scattered collection of assets across the U.S.
Mexico South America and Canada to now a tightly concentrated footprint of high quality asset clusters in the major metro markets in the U.S.
where we see the highest growth potential.
The top U.S.
markets showcase the highest growth in population household income education both significant barriers to entry and presents the most potential to add value for our shareholders.
All of our resources are now laser focused on what we do best owning managing leasing and redeveloping assets here in the U.S.
to drive net asset value.
Our portfolio has two distinct advantages.
First we have a 37% mark-to-market opportunity that is unmatched due to the low in placed average base rent and the spread to market that we can unlock by recapturing and repurposing assets to meet the needs of today’s shopper.
Second we have more raw materials to work with.
The large collection of assets we own provides numerous redevelopment opportunities for [indiscernible] adding grocery components to our power centers and adding technology to extend the hours of our shopping centers to fulfill the everyday needs of our shoppers 24/7.
Our 20/20 vision provides the roadmap for how we plan to take the company to new heights in the next five years.
The three main pillars of our strategy are simple.
First it starts with management.
We have to continue to motivate and empower the best talent in the industry and create a vibrant and rewarding place to work.
Second the balance sheet.
We have to be stores of capital by keeping a watchful eye on our cost of capital.
So we can invest wisely and position the balance sheet to weather any storm.
Finally our major focus on NAV per share growths.
In the major metro markets in the U.S.
asset values are close to peak or even above prior peak pricing as a healthy balance in supply and demand continues for open air centers.
We believe the best use of our capital is to take full advantage of that demand and redevelop our assets to drive outsized growth by leaning on our tremendous team fulfilling our redevelopment opportunities and executing on our select strategic developments.
We have planted the seed the redevelopment and development to bring to life assets that will significantly enhance the value and quality of our overall portfolio.
We will continue to remain disciplined preleasing phasing and ground leasing are just a few of our risk management tools that are in place to analyze each and every investment opportunity versus our cost of capital and to ensure we generate the highest returns for our shareholders.
The future is bright and we are passionate about delivering for our shareholders.
Turning to our results for the fourth quarter and the full year.
I’ll give a brief overview of our portfolio metrics a quick update on acquisitions and dispositions followed by an update on redevelopments.
U.S.
occupancy at the end of 2015 was 95.8% up 20 basis points from last quarter and 10 basis points from the beginning of the year driven in large part by the small shop recovery.
Small shop occupancy is 88.7% up 70 basis points from last quarter and from the beginning of the year.
U.S.
leasing spreads continues to display the mark-to-market opportunity at Kimco with an impressive 31% on new leases and a combined leasing spread of 13.1% in the fourth quarter the highest combined spread in almost three years.
U.S.
same-site NOI growth was 2.8% for the quarter primarily driven by minimum rent increases and a 20 basis point positive impact from redevelopment.
For the full year U.S.
same-site NOI growth is 3.1% including a 50 basis point negative impact from bankruptcies experienced over the year.
The average base rent for the U.S.
portfolio continues to improve with a 5.2% gain from the prior year rent.
Competition continues to be fierce in our top market through acquisitions with some staggering cap rates recently reported in areas of California.
This bodes well for the NAV of our holdings in California which is our largest state by NOI contribution and continues to direct us to deploy capital towards redevelopment of our existing assets versus acquiring in the open market.
For the year our total growth acquisitions of $2.1 billion is heavily weighted towards the purchase of our joint venture interest in 57 assets.
In contrast only two assets were acquired in the open market for a purchase price of $155 million.
The disposition market remains healthy as we completed a total growth disposition value of $2.2 billion for the year.
We completed the exit from Mexico and South America and an announced the closing of the RioCan JV transaction in Canada.
That will pave the way to achieving our goal of simplifying the company be strictly U.S.
focused by year-end.
In the U.S.
we completed the sale of 95 properties in 2015 for a gross price of $762 million at a blended 6.9% cap rate.
Pricing expectations for our disposition candidates have not changed.
As we continue to see the demand for high quality anchor at open air shopping centers.
Our redevelopment program remains the focal point of our strategy.
For the year we budgeted a $189 million of projects delivering at 10.6% incremental return.
We’re pleased to announce that due to some cost savings we came in under budget on cost of a $184 million and above budget on NOI improving the incremental return to 11.3% for the year.
Perhaps the most exciting redevelopment completion this quarter is the Stew Leonard's opening in our flagship Long Island asset Airport Plaza in Farmingdale.
Early indications from Stew’s and Shoppers are incredible.
And for the video footage of the parking lot we think the benefit of this grocery addition to an existing power center will produce significant NAV and same-site NOI improvement for years to come.
In Florida we also have successful openings of Publix in our Palm Beach re-development and Whole Foods at our re-development in Orlando.
Out West we signed two new leases with Trader Joe's one in California and one in Washington.
These tremendous grocery additions improve the percent of the AVR from grocery-anchored centers to72% up from 65% at prior year-end.
To the best we continue to question the status quo and take a deep dive into every aspect of operations to help to drive results.
Open-air retail continues to evolve and embrace omni-channel and the physical store has proven to be a driver of online sales.
Our retailers know their customers better than anyone inside their four walls.
And our job is to bring more people into the shopping center and get those consumers to come back time and time again.
The open-air retail landscape is healthy as limited new supply is forecasted and our strongest retailers continue to grow store count.
The shadow supply from potential closings or consolidating retailers and future redevelopment supply is what we are monitoring closely.
Looking ahead we are starting to see the activity pick up in every category size.
Big box retailers are back looking for space.
Junior box players continue to be the most aggressive traditional and specialty groceries are active and our small shop leasing indicates a healthy trajectory.
All of these ingredients indicate we are well positioned to unlock the value of our real estate for our shareholders.
And now I will turn the call over to Glenn to provide more granularities on our results.
Thanks Conor and congratulation on your appointment as CEO.
It’s going to be a fun go for us all.
Good morning to everyone.
We finished 2015 with a solid fourth quarter delivering strong results for the full year while furthering our transformation and simplification efforts.
We've successfully executed on our TSR strategy plus and delivered a total shareholder return of 9.4% for 2015 in a very tough and volatile market.
In December we unveiled our 2020 vision at our Investor Day focusing on owning and operating high quality U.S.
properties and the major metro markets where we have deep concentration.
We also continue to execute on our redevelopment pipeline and select ground-up development projects.
Our 2020 vision includes operating with a more conservative capital structure with plenty of liquidity and even stronger debt metrics than today.
Finally as an added benefit we have the upside potential from our plus business.
The vision is clear.
The team is focused and aligned.
Now for some details on our fourth quarter and full year results and further color regarding our 2016 earnings guidance.
Our FFO’s adjusted per share our recurring FFO which excludes non-operating impairments and transactional income expense was $0.37 for the fourth quarter and increase of 5.7% compared to last year’s $0.35.
The increase was driven by higher NOI from the operating portfolio of $24.8 million offset by $4.4 million of decreased management fees related to the significant reduction in joint ventures and higher G&amp;A associated with severance charges attributable to our anticipated exit of Canada.
In addition interest expense was higher by $5.6 million primarily from the debt assumptions related to the Kimstone acquisition earlier in the year the recent JV [indiscernible] in SEB and the acquisition of the Christown property in Phoenix.
Our full year 2015 FFO was adjusted per share came in at $1.46 achieving the high end of our revised guidance range and $0.06 above last year’s result of $1.44 4.3% increase.
Headline FFO per share representing the official NAREIT definition was $0.35 for the fourth quarter in line with first-call consensus estimates.
Headline FFO per share was $0.02 lower than FFO was adjusted primarily related to the $5.8 million non-cash charge for the redemption of our $175 million 6.9% Series H Preferred Stock redemption during the quarter and the acquisition related costs.
Our full year 2015 headline FFO per share came in at $1.56 achieving the upper end of our guidance range in $0.01 ahead our first-call consensus.
Our 2015 results are $0.11 higher than the 2014 amount of $1.44 share 7.6% increase.
The primary drivers of the headline per share increase was $0.06 increase in recurring FFO and the gain on the sale of our Supervalu stock investment which contributed $40 million of $0.10 per share.
Acquisition cost and non-operating impairments offset these increases.
As Conor just articulated the operating portfolio delivered solid results with improved occupancy.
Our 23rd consecutive quarter of delivering positive U.S.
same-site NOI growth and double-digit leasing spreads.
Ross Cooper and his team are very active during the quarter on the disposition front.
We completed the sale of interest in 64 U.S.
properties 23 Canadian properties and our last asset in South America generating proceeds of approximately $600 million which we used to fund the $175 million redemption of preferred stock pay down debt and fund the acquisitions.
We remained focused and committed to operate with a strong capital structure.
We finished the fourth quarter with consolidated net debt to recurring EBITDA of 6 times.
The high end of our 5.5 times to 6 times range down from the 6.6 times at the end of the first quarter after acquiring of $1.4 billion Kimstone portfolio.
We achieved this level even with the redemption of the preferred stock which had a 0.2 times impact on the metrics.
As part of our 20/20 vision over time we plan to reduce the consolidated net debt to recurring EBITDA to a range of 5 times to 5.5 times and on a look through basis including pro rata JV debt and preferred stock to a range of 6.4 times to 6.9 times with a fixed charge coverage of 3 times plus.
During the fourth quarter we tap the bond market issuing a $500 million seven year 3.4% fixed rate bond a liquidity position is in excellent shape ending the year with zero outstanding on our $1.75 billion revolving credit facility in over a $180 million in cash.
We have already began to address by 2016 maturities both consolidate in our JV’s which are anticipated to be funded with sales proceeds the unsecured bank and bond markets and mortgage financings lower coupons in the maturing debt.
We are reaffirming our guidance to 2016 which was provided at our Investor Day in December.
Our FFO as adjusted or recurring FFO per share range is $1.48 to $1.52 and our headline FFO per share ranges of $1.54 to $1.62.
The guidance range takes into account the significant level of dispositions throughout 2015 and the accelerated exit of Canada during 2016 which has a combined impact of $0.06 to $0.07 per share on the 2016 growth expectations.
We anticipate that by the end of 2016 will be a purely U.S.
owner and operator with assets concentrated in our key metro markets.
The transactional expense in income included in the headline guidance range but not in recurring range is primarily comprise of acquisition quest and the commencement of monetizing [indiscernible] in investment.
As such the transactional income for this heavily weighted towards the fourth quarter of 2016.
The guidance range is sensitive for timing of acquisitions dispositions redevelopments coming online leased up and financing initiatives.
Our 2016 plans of course our recently increased common dividend level of $0.255 per quarter which equates to an FFO payout ratio in the upper 60% range.
And with that I’ll turn over to Milton.
Well.
Thanks Glenn.
Kimco is back to basics.
The company focusing on property advantages in the United States.
It took a tremendous effort by our exceptional team.
They execute an all the transactions last year.
In 2015 we’ve reduced our foreign investment by $1.5 billion gross of which $749 million was a last year and we reduced the number of sites and joint ventures by another 43% a 65% decrease since 2010.
Now our portfolio was much most streamline predominantly self-managed located the United States with 564 properties and all the major [indiscernible].
We look forward to the opportunities in the years ahead there are some very exciting redevelopments and developments that our team working on.
We committed to unlocking the value in our current portfolio and the grow NAV for our shareholders.
And now we’ll be delighted to take any questions.
We’re ready to move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Due to the large volume of participants in the queue we request a one-question limit with an appropriate follow-up.
This will provide all our callers an opportunity to speak with management.
If you have additional questions you’re welcome to re-join the queue.
Dan you may take our first caller.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Just with regards to the Canadian assets its looks like those that are remaining so the assets in the same-store pool at year end have weaker growth and lower occupancy than those that you sold to RioCan in Q4.
Can you just remind us where you’re in the sales process those remaining 35 assets? What portion of the $900 million of dispositions guidance [indiscernible] about? And then what cap rates do you expect on those assets relative to RioCan deal? Sure.
Hi Christy.
It’s Ross Cooper.
In Canada as of right now we have 25 assets out of the 35 that under contracts to be sold.
We expect that to happen in the next two to three months depending outcome of some of the due diligence that’s still remaining and that point of time will be approximately 86% completed and some of analyze standpoint.
So we still really good about the pays which is going – the pricing is very consistent with where we’re in the other assets.
So we don’t feel that quality is necessarily lower and we’re in low six cap rate range on those assets is well.
The remaining assets to that point in time.
We’re still working on getting into the marketplace.
Doing a little bit of lease-up in some scenarios but as Glenn mentioned we’re much on track to be completely out by the end of the year.
Christy I’ll just add.
The same-site guidance that we have this is just going to be U.S.
based because the balance of these assets really – is really anticipated to be sold most of it within the first half of the year whatever stragglers by the end of the year.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just may be given some color on some of the real estate development projects where the estimated completion was pushed slightly further out.
Sure.
Hey it’s Conor.
On when was that’s the Whole Foods development actually the stabilization dates haven’t changed is more than completion date.
So that was actually compressed between the two actually the cost lowered a little bit there.
So we should see that completed this year in the third quarter.
Christiana that site plan has actually changed.
You’ll see that the cost came down quite a bit.
Originally we had thought we were going to be developing a product we called power center with junior box lineups a large big box anchor has significant interest now.
So we’ve redesigned the site plan to ground leasing get quite a bit of contribution from that tenant for the redesigned site plan.
So that’s really what changed that that site plan there.
Grand Parkway we’re finalizing the anchor lease there that we should be announcing shortly.
But we have yet to finish across that finish line so that’s really why that that was pushed out of quarter.
So those are the big movie pieces there on those assets.
Okay.
And just as a follow-up.
On Owings Mills do you have a sense of what you are going to do with this project? I know there is about 3.5 year lag between that opening as well.
The beauty of Owings Mills is it’s going to be a blank slate.
So that’s why we bought all the different pieces.
So mall of redevelopment is a tricky one especially if you don’t control all the pieces.
So what we did was we purchased our partners interest we purchased the Macy’s we purchased the JCPenney what you allows us to really start from scratch and take down the mall.
And our design is really for best-in-class open air shopping center which includes big box retailers junior anchors restaurants you name it.
So we have – we actually have four different site plans of working on right now that we think all will have significant value and really clear [ph] lot of value for our shareholders in the long-term.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
It’s Jeremy Metz on with Ross.
I just wanted if you can give us may be a little more color on the sales environment today ignoring the Canada stuff? Just talk about what you’re seeing in terms of investor demand? Has the buyer pool thinned and maybe the composition of interested buyers changed in recent months? And then is financing at all becoming an issue for sellers or for buyers in particular on some of the secondary market stuff? Sure.
This is Ross again.
As you’ve seen from the numbers we’ve been executing on our plan on the dispositions.
We really haven’t seen any pushback or fallout of deals that we have in the marketplace.
We’ve already closed on a couple shopping centers so far this year.
So the pace and the pricing is still very competitive.
I think that you’re right about the depth of the buyer pool.
It certainly is may be a little bit shallower than it was six months to nine months ago but the groups that are active are still very competitive.
We haven’t seen financing really become an issue on the deals that we’re selling in the secondary markets.
And we think that we’re going to have a very strong year.
In fact we have some assets on the West Coast that we’ve sold at very aggressive pricing.
And when you look at the statistics for our fourth quarter sales our average cap rate was 6.5% which was the lowest cap rate that we’ve had on our dispositions that we’ve tracked since we started the transformation.
So we continue to see the cap rates become more aggressive not less aggressive.
Yes I think in the key markets in California you’ve been tracking that really the cap rates now almost start with a 4% and some have even dipped even lower.
So we’re obviously being very patient there.
And clearly we’re not going to win many bidding wars today when those types of assets come to the market.
Okay.
And then just one quick one on shop occupancy it’s obviously been steadily moving higher.
And I think you previously mentioned the goal of getting to 90% by year-end.
I know it’s early in the year but has the disruption in the markets or general nervousness about the economy impacted any leasing activity at all or demand for shop space? And may be put that in context of the national and franchises versus maybe the mom and pops? Thanks.
No yes it’s a good question.
I think we’ve seen demand continue to improve for small shops.
You see it with our occupancy pick-up there.
In our pipeline looking forward we continue to see that improving over the year.
It’s a nice split between the nationals and the mom and pops.
We had 55% of our small shops were done with mom and pops this quarter.
So the volatility in the market has not really put a governor on the amount of small shop leasing we’re able to do.
And we know that that’s really where our occupancy pick-up is going to be driving going forward.
So we have been pleasantly surprised with the production there and we’ll continue to push that going forward.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Paul Morgan of Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Your lease spreads were as you noted stronger in the quarter.
And you’ve been talking about your mark-to-market across the portfolio and the upside potential there.
I mean were there any specific catalysts on the new lease spreads that you would point to? I mean are these numbers something that you think could be achievable as we look into 2016? I think combined leasing spreads is really – the double-digit is really our goal.
So if we can continue that that would be fantastic.
Some of notable ones we did this past quarter we did three deals on former Anna's Linens boxes that were actually a positive 33%.
So above what our previous range was that we thought we had on that mark-to-market opportunity.
And again it’s all about supply and demand.
Right now we just we see that there is retailers in all categories whether its small shop mid-size junior boxes or the big box anchors.
They all have been very aggressive in growing store count and that continues to lead to bidding wars which will bid up rents.
And we continue to see that that is an opportunity for us going into this year.
Okay.
And just to follow-up.
Your credit losses were also really low in the quarter and it seemed like the bankruptcy season has been relatively light so far.
I mean how is your outlook for the first half of the year especially kind of thinking about it from a year-over-year comp perspective? And how that could benefit same-store numbers? We obviously monitor our tenant’s health very closely.
Our watch list hasn’t really changed all that much.
I mean you know that we have been watching the same tenants for a long time now.
And I think it’s relatively healthy when you look out.
Clearly there might be some consolidation or some fall-out in the year but overall we think we’re in the sweet spot of retail.
We think off-price is really becoming the darling in the U.S.
and we continue to see huge demand for that type of space.
And we think that this year we’ll continue along that path of being just a healthy environment.
Okay thanks.
And our next question comes from RJ Milligan of Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
I was just curious if you could give an update as to what you’re seeing on the ground in Puerto Rico and if any of the macro issues there have trickled down into whether it be sales or leasing? Puerto Rico is obviously one we’re watching closely.
It’s relatively small in terms of the impact on our whole portfolio.
It’s a little bit less than 3%.
So we watch it closely.
We have seen activity on the Anna’s boxes that we got back and think we’ll be able to lease those up this year.
Clearly the headline the Puerto Rico’s in some serious issues.
We’re trying to restructure their debt but the shopper is still vibrant down there.
We recently hosted a portfolio tour down there and Glenn you want to talk a little about the traffic you saw.
Yes.
I mean it’s pretty amazing.
I mean I was down there on this NDR.
You go into Kmart’s in Puerto Rico all the lights are on.
The shelves are fully stocked.
The couple that we went into there’s seven or eight registers open with three or four people deep in them and the parking lots are filled with people shopping.
The discounter approach down there works really well.
Although the economy – the Puerto Rican economy’s been in a recession for a long time.
It really is a very deep underground economy there and the people just shop.
So the properties are very very successful.
Dan next question.
Yes sir.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
In regards to development we’ve seen a lot of REITs pull back on their overall size of the pipelines.
Just holistically what are you guys seeing that gives you confidence to increase it at this point in time? Yes most of our strategic developments have a story to them and we feel very confident about why we think it’s appropriate to add these to the pipeline.
If you go asset by asset they each have a reason why.
The one in Fort Lauderdale is right across from our most successful shopping center in the state of Florida and the demand has been off the charts there.
If you look at the Christiana Delaware it’s right along 95 where we’ve been working to rezone that from a former Sears warehouse to now a retail offering it’s right next to GGP’s successful Christiana mall.
So each and every one of these projects has a story to it.
And there is not going to be significant more development in our pipeline looking out mainly because the land prices have really skyrocketed.
A lot of that’s due to the multifamily that we’ve seen pop up.
But we see the demand from our retailers to want to grow store count and the limited supply.
So each of these projects has really – it’s within a key market for us.
The demand is there.
The one in Houston obviously with Houston going through headwinds we still see retailers wanting to be there and fill a void.
Clearly the apartments since the density around our Grand Parkway project has been there for a long period of time and I think the retail was the last sector to really catch up to meet the demand.
So we haven’t seen any falloff in terms of retailer demand there.
And that will actually be one of our first development projects out of the ground and we’re cautiously optimistic that it will be a big success.
Okay.
And as a follow-up same topic.
Could you comment on some of the retailers that you’re – that you have as anchors for these developments like hhgregg or Sports Authority or Target that was an anchor listed at Grand Parkway that’s no longer there in the supplemental this quarter? Just curious if you could comment on I mean basically the health of these anchor tenants? I think we reposted and the Target back on the plan there.
So that was probably just a refresh that you need to do on the supplemental.
But yes you mentioned a few tenants that are on our watch list.
Those tenants are obviously ones we’re watching closely and monitoring.
We’re cautiously optimistic that it’s not going to be a liquidation if and when something happens to those retailers.
So we’re looking to see where our exposure is how we can limit it and again that mark-to-market opportunity that we talk about is really our measure of safety when we get those boxes back.
So we think we’re trying to be careful about how we manage risk and those junior boxes you mentioned are ones that are obviously on the watch list.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First question is just on Albertson’s just given the choppy IPO market.
Would you guys consider other monetization alternatives like a private sale of your stake? Or your view is that it’s not – you’re fine to hold this as long as necessary to when the IPO market comes back? I mean I think our intent – hi this is Ray Edwards.
Our intent right now is just to hold our interest with our partners at this point.
It’s a very successful business operation and we’re very optimistic about it.
Okay.
And then second is for Glenn.
Glenn in the debt summary it looks like you guys still have two Canadian unsecured bonds outstanding.
And with the exit from Canada slated for year-end it would seem like a sort of mismatch.
So just curious especially with the strength of the U.S.
dollar does it make sense to prepay these? Or your view is to just leave these outstanding to their natural maturities over the next I guess four years or so? It’s a very fair and great question.
We’re very closely monitoring the progress that we make on the sales because the bonds serve as our natural hedge.
So depending on the timing and the quickness of the sales we’re going to need to evaluate how we want to handle the debt.
As long as we leave the cash in Canada it stays naturally hedged.
But there may come a point where it makes sense to either do across currency swap tender for the bonds make whole the bonds but it’s something that’s very much on the radar screen that we’ll have to address as we go forward.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just wanted to go back to the off-price commentary.
Obviously that’s been a key driver for the space overall.
But I was just wondering – we hear about it and we’ve been hearing about it for quite a long time.
Just wondering how you think about saturation of that concept? And maybe if you could comment on what percentage of your centers have some form of off-price in it whether or not that’s a traditional TJs or some of the newer players? We can get back to you on the percentage of the total portfolio of an off-price component.
It would be very high and so we can give you an exact percentage.
But on your question on saturation it’s one we watch closely.
There’s obviously a lot of new players in the off-price segment.
We love the off-price segment.
We think that TJX has been really the phenomenal performer for many many years now.
And if you look back not too long ago the market cap of TJX and Ross combined was relatively small compared to some of the mall anchors and if you just compare it to today it’s really phenomenal just the growth that they’ve achieved.
The new players we’re watching closely.
You want to try and pick best-in-class and have the merchandising mix that enhances the shopping center and the amount of traffic it drives.
So we’re cautiously optimistic that I think that more competition is good for the off-price sector.
We clearly favor the ones that have the proven business model and have been doing it for many many years.
But going forward it will be an interesting situation to watch to see who really can capture some of that market share.
TJX obviously has such a lead and Ross is really ramping up their expansion plans.
And then if you look at Nordstrom Rack and then some of the Saks Off Fifth Fine from Lord &amp; Taylor there is a lot of players out there that are trying to really gain market share.
So it will be interesting to see how competitive they are.
Okay thanks.
Any comments on Backstage and how they’re doing? We have been in talks with Backstage.
We have yet to execute a lease with them.
So again it’s one of those newer players we’re watching closely to see how they perform.
Okay thanks.
And our next question comes from Caitlin Burrows of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I just had a quick question on Amazon.
We’ve heard that they’ve started opening select bricks and mortar locations.
And I was wondering if you had had any discussions with them whether we could expect them to be in your centers in the future? And if you knew anything about their long or medium-term bricks and mortar plan? Yes they have one open bricks and mortar location in Seattle.
They continue to see that as an opportunity.
We have met with them.
We’ve talked about opportunities with them.
I think they’re going to be very select and very strategic on their store opening plan.
And so I think it’s going to be more of a measured approach to it rather than a full-blown assault on opening a lot of bricks and mortar stores.
But it’s clearly an indication that a lot of pure e-commerce retailers see the value of opening physical stores which is a real boost for our sector because there is this tethering effect.
And you see it from a lot of our retailers who come out and display the amount of online sales that go into opening a new physical location but also the amount that they lose when they close a physical location in terms of the online sales.
So it’s interesting to watch and Amazon obviously being the largest is clearly a good sign for us for the long haul.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from Mike Miller of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi Conor you talked about seeing more demand from big box tenants.
Can you give us a little more color on just how broad-base that is? Is it covering just existing shopping centers the appetite for new shopping center development et cetera? Yes it’s both actually.
They’re looking to try and enter some of our redevelopments as well as the new developments.
So it’s nice because a lot of the times when we were looking at the most active players it was the junior boxes.
They were the ones most aggressive on redevelopments as well as the ground up developments we have in our pipeline.
And it’s nice to see now that the big box anchors are coming back and looking to grow store count.
And again it’s in select locations where they see opportunity or it might be a void for them.
But again the mass merchandisers have been missing for a while in terms of activity.
So it’s nice to see them back looking for stores.
Okay.
So it’s not just one category or two you’re seeing it it’s fairly broad-based.
Exactly.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Conor just a kind of follow-up in terms of the demand side of the equation there’s been a lot of press reports recently about some of the major as well as some new grocers expanding into the Mid-Atlantic market and Wakemans Publix Lidl and so forth.
And just curious whether that’s showing up when you’re talking about demand for boxes I’m assuming you’re talking about big boxes as opposed to grocers but you might be talking about both.
So are we looking at – I don’t want to say a bidding war but a really strong demand environment in the Mid-Atlantic as a result of those trends.
And as part of that can you just address in terms of Lidl whether they’re going into centers are they looking at free-standing locations? You’re spot on.
My comments earlier were really targeted towards the big box players.
But you’re right on when you talk about the grocery competition in the Mid-Atlantic.
It is going to be fierce with all those new entrants into that market.
And you’re right where it’s going to be a bidding war.
It’s going to be interesting to see who shakes out in terms of the winners and losers.
But there’s going to be plenty of aggressive entrance into that market in the Mid-Atlantic and you named pretty much the majors that are all coming and coming in droves.
So on your question on Lidl it’s an interesting one.
We met with them and talked to them about their plans.
Most of their plans are self-development.
So they’re actually looking to self develop standalone grocery stores where they can be competitors to the traditional grocery stores at a lower price point.
So most of what they’ve been doing is tying up land and looking to self develops.
So they have a little bit of a different approach to it than say some of your traditional grocer who is looking to lease space.
That being said though there’s plenty of bidding going on for opportunity there but it’s already a very tight market.
So it’s very difficult to penetrate.
And if I could just follow-up in terms of Albertson’s and the West Coast.
With Albertson’s buying back some of their stores; its domination in many of the Northwest markets I guess has increased.
And I wonder if you could address whether Albertson’s has put any bid in I think the 33 remaining Haggen stores that go to auction next week whether Albertson’s has put a bid in for any of those as well and perhaps an update on the timing of an IPO? Well with respect to Haggen I know they’re looking at the 30 odd stores that are going – they’re trying to sell their going concern.
But again I’m not sure; I’m not into the detail.
So I don’t know if there’s FTC issues about being able to take down all of those locations or not.
Partly on that front Albertson’s had a lawsuit with Haggen’s that was settled.
So that will help get something done there.
So it was a big step for them to get that resolved.
With respect to the IPO the S-1 remains on file.
It’s been updated for the third quarter.
And the fourth quarter for Albertson’s ends I think February 22 or 23.
So market conditions improve come after the fourth quarter revisit the opportunity in the public markets.
Okay good.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from George Auerbach of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead Thanks good morning.
Conor any color on the expected yield that the new projects in Owings Mills and Pentagon? Or I guess more broadly if I look at the active development page and add in Pentagon; what’s the expected weighted average yields on these projects? Yes it’s a good question.
We’re targeting between 7.5 and 8.5.
That’s really where the really the expected yields are for the entire portfolio of redevelopment and development projects.
So obviously Owings Mills is just a recent combination of acquisitions there.
So we have a few different site plans depending on the best return which one we will go with.
Pentagon is obviously the apartment towers that we’ve talked about in 25 000 square feet of new retail there.
So the ROI’s going to be a little bit lower there because of the apartments but the spread from the cap rate is still well over 200 basis points.
So we feel like we have a manageable pipeline that really will deliver significant NAV for the Company going forward That’s helpful.
And just one follow-up.
Glenn what are you modeling for non-cash revenue in the 2016 guidance? I saw it increase in the fourth quarter and just wondering if it sort of stays at that kind of a run rate.
Can you be a little more specific of that non-cash revenue? Yes the straight line rent and FASB was something like $11.5 million.
It was running in kind of the $8 million range earlier in the year.
I just wondered if that was… Yes it’s bumped up really due to acquisitions right.
Certainly when we brought on the Blackstone portfolio the Christown asset is a very large asset that has it in there.
It will probably a little bit higher but not not – and just modestly higher than where we see it today.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from Steve Sakwa of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess two questions.
Number one I guess maybe Glenn in terms of the guidance of 2.5 to 3.5 for same store I’m just trying to think what you’ve sort of incorporated in terms of bankruptcies and down time.
I guess you had some of those in 2015 and it clipped the results.
I’m just trying to figure out how conservative you might have been or where that figure is in relation to where you started a year ago.
Yes.
I mean if you think about the initial guidance that we put out last year right we were in this 3 to 3.5 range.
We brought for the whole year we came in at 3.1.– as Conor mentioned Anna’s and A&amp;P really hit us about 50 basis points.
So we would have achieved the high end of the range but bankruptcies happen.
The guidance range does incorporate a modest amount not a lot of bankruptcies.
So if you get to the midpoint we think there should be a very very modest amount.
If there’s a large scale bankruptcy you probably would have a nick on us and you probably would end up towards the lower end of the range.
If it stays stable and the lease-up happens where we think we can get to the mid-to-upper end of the range.
Okay thanks.
And then I guess just to kind of follow-up on a couple of the Albertson’s questions.
I believe the intent obviously in 2016 was to have the IPO and then start to monetize that and use some of that cash to fund.
To the extent that the IPO either happens later in the year or maybe doesn’t happen at all for market conditions just I mean how do you think about your needs of cash and how do you supplement that? Yes.
It’s fairly on a relative basis it’s fairly modest.
I mean what’s baked in the guidance from a cash standpoint is somewhere between $50 million and $100 million to us late in the year.
So for a 2016 impact it’s fairly modest.
And they can be supplemented in many different ways.
You might have a little bit more debt.
I mean at the high end of $100 million it’s about one tick of net debt to EBITDA.
You may have more sales that supplement it.
So in the scheme of things if it didn’t go we would obviously have to deal with our headline guidance because it’s baked into that.
But other than that the recurring flows are all there and it’s modest to the capital plan.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning everyone.
Follow-up actually on the last question I guess maybe more directly.
Stock price has done well.
You’re within a few percentage points of the cycle high if you will.
Just wondering as how you think about maybe issuing some equity modest amount in terms of de-risking sort of some of your funding needs as it goes forward particularly in light of maybe weakening conditions on disposition market and just overall capital markets uncertainty.
Well the nice part about what we have is an enormous amount of liquidity.
We end the year with zero outstanding on our credit facility.
As you see in our guidance we’re still planning to be a net seller during the year so there’s more proceeds coming in.
And the nice part about where we are today is we do have an ATM in place and we can use it opportunistically if it makes sense to do so.
So it’s another thing that we continually monitor and we try to take advantage of improving the balance sheet at any point in time that we can in measured form.
And then can I just add some question on the Canadian situation as it relates to where the cash is.
Is the cash that is generated off the asset sale is that in Canada right now? Is that how that’s held? Well to date everything that we’ve sold we’ve actually repatriated so far.
Okay.
Okay.
We will be – so far.
So the remaining assets that we’ll need to sell because they’ll match up against the Canadian bonds that are outstanding so we’re not going to be repatriating that cash so quickly because we’ll need to balance it with the debt keep the natural hedge in place.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
And our next question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick questions same topic.
As you look at market rents over last year versus this year what kind of market rent growth are you seeing in not releasing spreads but true on-the-ground market rent growth? Market rent really depends on location and obviously the strength of the site and the surrounding demographics.
But the market rents in the top markets continue to pick up nicely.
It really is a function of supply and demand and we continue to see pretty strong leasing spreads but if you look at the pure tick-up in market rents it’s at the high end of our range where we expected it to be.
And you will continue to see it improve as retailers really have focused on making sure to try and penetrate these markets but also not lose stores.
I think that’s more of a critical component to it is retailers that are coming to for renewals are worried about losing store count in these tough markets where they have significant market share.
So you’ll probably see the renewal spread actually pick up a little bit this year as those leases come up for renewal.
As you look at kind of sales growth by the tenants and kind of low-single digits and e-commerce takes a slice of that for those tenants that do have e-commerce exposure or maybe they even have their own omnichannel presence.
But with brick and mortar really being a low-single digit sales growth environment how long can market rent growth continue to kind of outpace that and get OCRs that are probably increasing higher than potentially long-term averages would assume is correct.
It’s a good question.
It’s one that I think as retailers look at their occupancy costs they really have to be mindful of sales growth as well as how much rent they can pay.
The nice thing about our sector is we have some of the lowest occupancy costs across any sector of REITs so we think we have significant pricing power still left to go.
And it really helps by being in the best markets and having the best assets.
Those are ones that are very difficult to come by so retailers don’t necessarily want to lose those store count either.
So it’s one that we think still has a long runway to go.
And again I think that as long as supply and demand remains in check we’re in good shape there.
Yes.
I mean it’s Glenn.
Also our portfolio is a little bit different because it’s older.
We have so many leases still that are really well below market.
So even though you might not have true dramatic amounts of rent growth per se relative to where our leases are today leases that are 10 years 15 years 20 years old.
You still have a lot of upside and when you bring those to market.
Great thank you.
And our next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
The fourth quarter jump in lease termination income I’m assuming that wasn’t the bankrupt guys because they’re gone.
So is there anything special in there? And kind of what are you thinking about as we look at the next couple quarters? Yes the lease termination was really tied to one big lease termination.
It was in East Windsor where we had a Safeway that was dark and paying and they wanted to get out of the lease and offered us a settlement.
So we took it and now we have a redevelopment on our hands as well.
So it was a double win for us there.
Okay.
And then if I could follow-up real quick on Christy’s question.
The – if you look at the $900 million that you guys guided to in dispositions is it roughly $300 million Canada $600 million U.S is that math about right? No no it’s – I’m sorry it’s really more $500 million Canada $400 million U.S.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you guys.
And our next question comes from Collin Mings of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just wanted to see if you could provide a little more color on the progress backfilling the A&amp;P and Anna’s Linens spaces? I think Conor you stated that spreads were maybe a little bit better than you referenced last November.
Yes.
I mean Anna’s Linens boxes if you remember we had 21 leases.
We have three fully executed leases that the positive 33% spread.
We have 14 active leases in negotiation to fill those boxes.
Two of the leases were assigned to.
And we actually sold two.
So we actually have very strong interest across the board on Anna’s linens.
And I think when it’s all said and done we might be at the high end or above the initial range when we set our mark-to-market there.
A&amp;P the nine locations five were assigned four to Acme one to Best Yet.
The four vacant boxes have significant interest.
I’m sorry – we have really when you break it down it’s a phenomenal opportunity to really reposition what was a struggling grocer.
And you name it in terms of who the off-price retailers that want to try and take these box as well as some of the specialty grocers and even some of the warehouse clubs that are – where we have liquidity and lease termination rights for the surrounding retail.
We might have some redevelopment potential there.
In addition to the Staten Island redevelopment where we plan on keeping that as a strategic vacancy through 2017 when our entitlements come into place and we have a very large redevelopment there.
Okay.
Thanks.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks Dan and to everybody that participated on our call today.
As a reminder additional information for the company can be found in our supplemental as posted on our website.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.