Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience and holding.
We now have your speakers in conference.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Here with me in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for the call.
Mark will begin with a review of our first quarter results followed by a brief overview of our full year outlook.
Then Tom will then provide his perspective and we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our website which is www.kimberly-clark.com.
Before we begin let me remind you we'll be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated and I'd refer you to the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of forward-looking statements.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
For 2010 adjusted results exclude a loss related to the move to highly inflationary accounting in Venezuela.
For 2011 adjusted results and outlook exclude costs for the pulp and tissue restructuring and a nondeductible business tax charge in the first quarter related to a law change in Colombia.
For further information and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see today's news release and additional information on our website.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
We start with three key headlines for the quarter.
First we delivered organic sales growth of more than 2% and made good progress with our targeted growth initiatives.
Second we returned a significant amount of capital to shareholders.
And third while cost inflation is weighing on our near-term profitability we're taking a number of actions to ensure we deliver on our commitments for the year.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales increased 4% to $5 billion.
Organic sales rose more than 2% on track with our full year plan.
Sales volumes improved 2% while the combined impact of changes in net selling prices and product mix was slightly positive.
Volumes benefited from innovation and targeted growth initiatives.
On the other hand we experienced lower volumes in Venezuela and category demand remained soft in parts of North America.
First quarter adjusted operating profit fell 14% with an operating margin of 13.1%.
Benefits from top line growth and $60 million of FORCE cost savings were more than offset by input cost inflation of $195 million.
First quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.09 compared with $1.14 last year and included benefits from a decline in the tax rate and a lower share count.
Cash provided by operations for the quarter was $250 million compared to $464 million in the prior year.
Looking forward I expect our cash generation to build throughout the year as earnings grow and we complete nearly all of our pension plan contributions in the first half of the year.
First quarter capital spending was $234 million compared to $184 million last year.
We're off to a strong start supporting our growth innovation and cost reduction programs.
We repurchased 13.1 million shares of KMB stock at a cost of about $850 million in the quarter and we're on track to execute our $1.5 billion share repurchase plan for 2011.
In total we allocated more than $1.1 billion to share repurchases and dividends in the first quarter as we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
Now I'll highlight a few areas of our segment results for the quarter and as usual further details are in this morning's news release.
In Personal Care organic sales were even with last year.
Sales volumes improved 2% offset by changes in net selling prices and product mix.
In North America we delivered double-digit volume growth in feminine care for the fifth consecutive quarter and high single-digit growth in adult care.
Momentum also remained strong in our targeted growth initiatives across K-C International.
On the other hand volumes fell significantly in Venezuela and the baby and child care categories in North America remain relatively soft.
Personal Care operating margins of 17.8% were impacted by cost inflation primarily for oil-based materials and a higher level of promotional activity in North America.
There were also a few smaller items including some machine startups and supply-chain disruptions which I wouldn't expect to recur going forward.
Now turning to Consumer Tissue organic sales grew 3%.
Net selling prices were up 2% led by cost-driven price increases in K-C International and Europe.
Changes in product mix improved sales 1%.
Sales volumes were even with last year as gains in bathroom tissue and Kleenex facial tissue in North America were offset by declines elsewhere.
Operating margins of 9% were below prior year levels as higher net selling prices and cost savings were more than offset by cost inflation mostly fiber costs.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other.
Organic sales increased 4%.
Sales volumes grew 3% including double-digit growth in our safety business in North America and a mid-single digit gain overall in K-C International.
On the other hand relatively soft market demand continued to impact our washroom sales in North America.
Operating margins of 13.5% were down slightly though remain solid despite the challenging environment.
And lastly Health Care organic sales were up 5% driven by higher sales volumes of 6%.
Volumes of high-margin medical devices were up high-single digits paced by I-Flow and our airway management business.
Supply volumes grew mid-single digits and benefited from a modest improvement in category demand in the North American market.
Operating margins were down somewhat compared to last year and it's mostly due to cost inflation and ongoing litigation expenses related to the I-Flow acquisition.
So that wraps up the review of the quarter.
Before I hand it over to Tom I'd like to briefly comment on the updated outlook that was provided in this morning's news release.
We widened our estimate for 2011 adjusted earnings per share which we now expect to be between $4.80 and $5.05 a share.
There's been no change to the top end of our previous guidance range but we've lowered the bottom end by $0.10 a share.
A wider range reflects a significantly higher cost inflation assumption of $450 million to $550 million for the year.
That's more than double our previous assumption and represents an incremental headwind of more than $0.45 per share compared to our previous plan.
We're responding to the significant pickup in cost inflation in three primary ways: First we're raising selling prices across a number of our businesses; second we're accelerating or implementing additional FORCE cost savings programs; and third we're focused on managing our overhead spending aggressively.
Now Tom will talk more about our specific plans in each of these areas.
All in all we expect these actions along with other modest changes to our plan to offset most if not all of the incremental inflationary headwinds we're now anticipating compared to our previous plan.
So that wraps up my review.
To recap we achieved top line growth in line with our plan for the year with further progress on targeted growth initiatives we delivered on our commitment to return significant capital to shareholders and we're taking actions to combat the inflationary headwinds facing our business.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll share my perspectives on the state of our business after the first 3 months of 2011 and more importantly what we're doing to overcome the headwinds we face.
And then we'll get to your questions.
In short we're executing our Global Business Plan strategies and we're taking aggressive actions in a challenging near-term environment.
Looking at our organic sales growth and our market positions we're on track with our plan in the first quarter.
Our volume growth was the best we've delivered since 2009.
And as you heard from Mark we continue to make good progress with our targeted growth initiatives particularly in K-C International our K-C Professional Safety business and our Health Care Medical Device business.
We're also getting good returns in our innovation and marketing investments.
This is especially true in feminine care and adult care in North America where the initiatives we began last year on U by Kotex Poise and Depend continue to deliver volume and share growth.
And looking more broadly at our share positions we held or increased market share in 7 of our 8 key consumer categories in the U.S.
That included share gains of 4 points in feminine care 3 points and adult care 2 points in baby wipes and 1 point in both child care and facial tissue.
And we're growing ahead of category rates in a number of markets in K-C International such as Brazil.
In terms of overall market demand portions of the North American market are still relatively soft but there are early signs that conditions are starting to improve.
And most importantly we have a number of innovations coming to market in the next few quarters to further improve our brands.
We're launching an improved Huggies diaper in North America in the second quarter and Jeans diapers will be hitting the store shelves in the near future.
We'll also be introducing an exciting Huggies diaper line extension later this summer.
Outside of diapers we'll be launching improved Pull-Ups training pants new and improved U by Kotex and Poise products some upgraded COTTONELLE bathroom tissue offerings and new Kleenex facial tissue offerings.
And we have plenty of innovation coming in K-C International as well.
So our innovation pipeline is healthy.
We're executing strong marketing programs and we continue to do what's right for the long-term success for the health of our brands.
Now turning to the cost environment and what we're doing to improve our profitability.
Clearly the environment is much more challenging since we talked to you last at the beginning of this year.
Market pulp costs did not fall in the first quarter like we and most others had assumed.
Instead costs rose in March and over the next few months are likely to hit or potentially even exceed the peak levels that occurred last summer.
In addition as we all know oil prices have risen rapidly to over $100 a barrel this is well above what we planned for and it's caused prices for many of our oil-based cost inputs to increase considerably.
For example polymer costs are up about 20% both year-over-year and sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Similarly superabsorbent costs are up 15% and costs for both of these key materials are expected to increase further in the near term.
Now it's our job to manage through these headwinds and that's what we're working very hard to do.
As Mark mentioned we're focused on increasing net realized revenue implementing additional FORCE cost savings programs and reducing overhead spending compared to our previous plans.
Let me share some more details on each of these areas.
First on the revenue front.
Many of our businesses are increasing selling prices.
Last month we announced increases from most of our North American consumer products businesses that will go into effect over the summer.
We're also in the process of raising prices in many areas of K-C International particularly in Latin America.
And our B2B businesses are also taking pricing action including a North American K-C Professional price increase that we announced last week.
So as a result we now anticipate that price and mix improvements will deliver 1 to 2 points of revenue growth in 2011.
That's up from our original assumption of about 1%.
Second we're aggressively identifying and implementing incremental FORCE cost savings programs.
Our global procurement  organization and our lean/continuous improvement capabilities will help us deliver even more savings in the current environment.
So all together we now expect FORCE cost savings of $250 million to $300 million in 2011 and that's $50 million more than our original planning assumption.
And third we'll be reducing overhead spending compared to our original plans.
We're using lean/continuous improvements to reduce the costs of our back office operations and we're closely managing our spending on discretionary items.
As a result of our control of SG&amp;A spending we're now targeting for total between-the-lines expenses to grow in line with or potentially slower than the rate of sales growth in 2011.
So all in all the benefits from our actions to improve revenue realization and reduce costs will be more visible in our results in the back half of the year.
I also expect our innovation and growth initiatives to build momentum as the year progresses.
All of these actions require strong focus and discipline and I'm confident in our team's ability to execute these plans while we continue to build an even brighter future for our company.
So to summarize we're continuing to execute our Global Business Plan strategies for the long term success of Kimberly-Clark we are aggressively managing those factors we can control to deliver solid results in the near term and we're firmly convinced that a successful execution of our Global Business Plan will improve shareholder value over time.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks.
And now we'll begin to take your questions.
I just had a question to talk -- if you could talk a little bit about what's different this time versus last time from a commodity -- in the environmental commodity increases.
If you look at Personal Care for example last time in '07 '08 the margins held in pretty well.
This time it sounded like -- Mark you mentioned there some one-off things but [ph] 17.8% operating margins were as far as I could tell kind of the worse you've seen in gosh at least a decade as I look at the model.
What's different now versus last time on that metric in that segment and along a number of dimensions whether it be competitive environment whether it be just these one-time really driving it et cetera? And then on Consumer Tissue similarly I guess high-single digits is what one would expect at these levels? How do you describe that environment right now as well as from a competitive environment and what's different versus last time? Yes I'd say in some -- the reasons why the commodity costs are higher are different.
So I think that's part of it.
But we had a pretty big hit on margins on Tissue when pulp spiked over 1000 the last time as well.
So I'd say yes we're a little below where our low watermark is for Personal Care margins and some of that was the one-time -- some of it was -- the pricing environment globally was a little bit more aggressive so we had a little bit bigger trade spend in the first quarter.
So that's probably part of it.
So timing of promotion activity is part of it.
We certainly expect our margins to improve from where they are over the back half of the year.
Yes I would say also the makeup of cost inflation is probably if you think about it is 2/3 oil and oil-related costs 1/3 fiber.
That's a little different mix than we've experienced in the past and oil and oil-related costs tend to impact Personal Care a little bit more than you'd see in Tissue.
I also think some of the underlying commodities are adjusting quicker now than they may be used to.
So polymer is reacting more quickly as well as superabsorbent.
And by the same token you are it sounds like trying to react more quickly as well or...
Yes absolutely.
In that context I guess how do we think about your guidance? And how much confidence do you have in your guidance? Why should we kind of believe in your guidance in a sense? And it was kind enough that you went through the incremental $275 million in commodities roughly and how that sort of breaks out in terms of pricing in FORCE and overhead but could you put a few more numbers behind some of that? And let us know your confidence in each one of them particularly around the competitive environment going forward.
Ali I think you know us well enough.
We try to tell you how we really think it's going to turn out every time we do this call.
So our guidance our confidence level around guidance is always pretty high or we wouldn't guide it to this level.
Now we're not always right and sometimes things happen that we didn't expect.
So certainly based on the assumptions that are in there that we share with you in terms of input costs and cost savings we're pretty confident we can deliver in all of those areas.
Okay and last one is something you generally do have control about is buybacks.
Can you give a sense of the pace of that as we go forward? Yes.
As we said in the January call Mark can give a little bit more color but we expect to have most of our planned buybacks done for the year in the first half of the year.
Yes I think that's fair to say.
We'll have some to do in the back half.
But we got a significant amount out the first quarter.
We'll take that pace down just a little bit in the second quarter.
But the majority will be done by the time we've finished with June.
And nothing incremental planned at this point.
So we already had a big step-up in this year's planned buyback activity.
So we'll see how cash flow looks though later in the year.
But at this point we're pretty comfortable with the plan.
Okay thanks very much guys.
Thanks Ali.
So I guess I just wanted to follow on a little more specifically on that first line of questioning.
And I guess the specifics are Consumer Tissue North America Personal Care globally it seems that pricing is a little bit more challenged right? I mean you have deeper levels of promotional spending in Personal Care yet you’re turning around today and saying that pricing realization is going to be a little bit better right? And your volume assumptions aren't changing much I guess.
So what gives you the confidence that volume won't drop off more particularly in Personal Care I guess now that the competitive environment is already difficult? Now you're going to price on top of that difficult competitive environment and you don't see a lot of volume fall off? Or maybe you do and it's just embedded in a bigger number? I guess if you can give a little color around that it will be very helpful.
Yes sure.
Well on Tissue in particular last year in the first quarter we were on allocation on Scott tissue.
So we had constrained promotional spending somewhat and it returned to more normal levels late in the year.
So it's not as big of a jump if you look at the average for 2010 versus where we spent in the first quarter.
So we'd say part of it is the comparison.
A different set of issues but a similar story on Personal Care where last year's first quarter was a little lighter promotional calendar.
We had Jeans diaper coming in the second quarter and spent a little bit more aggressively on that.
And so we had a little bit more promotion.
In the first quarter we also had some competitive activity in the first quarter that we were matching up to that ramped up in the latter part of last year particularly in K-C International.
So from that standpoint you know some of it's in the quarterly comparison was probably the toughest in the first quarter if you look at it versus the year average.
It would it be up by as much.
And then to the second question about demand on the baby care it's really more of a function of the birthrate than consumers deciding to constrain purchases of diapers.
And so we've seen a relatively depressed birthrate really since the economic downturn began in 2008 2009 and have actually seen probably a 5% decline in the total number of annual live births over that cumulative period.
So we're expecting that to start to tick up in the second half of the year and kind of level off in the first half.
And so we'll see how the data progresses.
But we don't think industry price changes will have a big impact on that.
We'll obviously watch private label share and pricing gaps to see what happens in that standpoint to see if there's any category down trade.
But with all the innovation we have coming with an improved Huggies diapers that starts to ship with Jeans diapers in the second quarter we've got some exciting news on Huggies that we'll be talking about later this year all those factors we feel pretty good about our innovation plan for the year.
And Tissue you'd see a similar story.
We've got pretty good momentum going on COTTONELLE.
And as we see the pricing take hold in the market we don't expect to see a big hit there.
So it sounds like -- and then if I could just characterize it you're saying that the higher levels of promo that you guys cited in the back of pricing I think in North American pricing decelerated sequentially in a couple of the categories.
You're saying that the comp issue you don't feel that the competitive environment is particularly more heated right now than it was over the last six months? Is that right? Yes that's what the caveats said in some markets where we talked about principal competitors in baby and child care in particular that heated up last year.
That's abated somewhat but not substantially.
But not as much in the U.S.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just I guess on pricing geographically.
North America obviously you've already made the big announcement.
Can you just talk a little bit about elsewhere? I mean nothing -- we haven't heard anything on Europe and in China.
Is there any chance of taking -- what about Asia? In general is there any chance of taking pricing? And in Europe I guess also? Yes and I think what you'd want to look for is where you had very strong currencies.
You're probably not going to see much opportunity for price because you're not going to actually have the same impact on their local currency cost structure.
And in markets like Latin America we'll probably be getting more price where their currencies haven't appreciated that much relative to the dollar.
So we'll be aggressive there and other markets like Australia which just had a very strong move against the U.S.
dollar.
Probably not a big move on price there because it's not really going to be justified on a local currency market.
In other markets like Vietnam has been very high inflation.
So obviously you see pretty high price realization there.
China there's a lot of launch activity going on so it's a pretty competitive market.
So probably not as much of an opportunity to gain pricing in China.
But that's one we'll continue to watch and try to drive mix and innovation there to get revenue realization.
Thanks a lot for the time.
Thanks Chris.
Can you talk a bit more about the Personal Care volume in international markets? I know you said Venezuela was a big impact on that.
Is that something you could quantify? And are you seeing any sense of pressure and resistance to price increases in this market? Yes I think Venezuela was -- Paul what was it? A couple of points of drag in the Personal Care numbers overall? Correct.
It took about a half of point out of our total consolidated volumes and it more skewed to Personal Care obviously.
So we saw broadly good results across most of the international markets probably not as rapidly growing as in prior quarters.
It's a little slower for us in Eastern Europe.
We still had double-digit gains in China and high single-digit growth across Latin America x Venezuela.
Okay great.
And is it possible to break out and quantify some of the operating and one-off costs that you had in Personal Care in the quarter? No I mean that was -- we had several startups and some of them didn't go as well as planned.
And so there wasn't any one thing that was as big of a deal.
The bigger factor driving  the margin was cost inflation and higher trade spending.
And Tom you had mentioned I guess some early signs of economic recovery.
Is that something you can elaborate on? Where are you seeing it? Is it a change in buying patterns? Is it in K-C Professional? Yes a couple of areas.
I mean obviously we expect the birthrate to stabilize and start to pick up in the U.S.
in the back half of the year.
And we look at lots of long range forecasts on that.
A lot of it is related to consumer confidence and so forth.
So we're seeing small positive signs there.
In our KCP business we saw -- we had double-digit volume growth in safety in the quarter which is good.
But manufacturing-related stuff is starting to move again.
On the other hand office vacancies are still bumping along the bottom.
So not a lot of improvement in that segment.
Lodging as well is at near historical lows.
So it's kind of a mixed bag.
But in some of the manufacturing segments we're starting to see decent growth.
We actually had decent volume growth in KCP in Europe which -- Germany is heating up and recovering nicely.
And then in the emerging markets we saw still pretty solid volume growth in KCP.
On Health Care as well had decent volume growth this quarter which has been a pretty stable performer.
So we're past the H1N1 comps and are back to more normal growth in Health Care which was positive.
Okay and just one last question.
You've touched on some of this but in terms of the price increases that you have announced mainly for the North American market can you give any sense of color to both the competitive and the customer response to that? And any areas that you did particularly concerned about risk of trade down? I mean [indiscernible] markets like paper towels seem to be still pretty weak for you.
Are you concerned that this will just make that issue -- aggravate that issue I guess? Yes.
And I think our announced price increases were in bathroom tissue diapers baby wipes.
And so I think there's been some competitive announcements on paper towels that we'll obviously be evaluating.
I think that like anything else in these things you announce your price increase.
I don't think I've ever seen a customer yet that said thank you for that and so just as we don't want our suppliers to hand us cost increases.
And so it's a competitive environment and we'll see what happens in the marketplace.
It was I think -- recently we had confirmation that one of our principal competitors is going to follow in the KCP front.
Actually a couple of other competitors lead price increases that we recently followed.
So yes I think it's not surprising.
When you look almost across every category out there you're seeing the impact of higher commodity costs show up in higher selling prices for everything.
Okay thank you.
Two questions.
First I know you don't like to give specific quarterly guidance.
But I wanted to get a feel I hope I didn't miss it for any of the moving pieces in the second quarter.
If most of the pricing isn't going to go into effect kind of until the summer months I assume the second quarter is going to feel more gross margin pressure.
But maybe you're going to get a volume bump as some retailers take inventory prior to the price increase? So can you comment on that sort of generally? Yes.
Well we don't give any quarterly color on that.
But I'd say you're thinking about the right variables.
So in the second quarter we'll not have much benefit from any selling price moves at least certainly not in North America.
And we do try to manage the amount that customers forward buy on pricing because it just screws up everybody's supply chain.
So I wouldn't be looking for too big of a volume move there.
Wendy the other thing I would add is in the near term costs are going up sequentially.
Although with the amount of shares that we bought back in the first quarter that should start to benefit the bottom line number more going forward.
But fair to say most of the FORCE savings will probably be back half loaded as well? I think we're pretty steady implementers of those programs.
So I think you should start to see those build as the quarters go.
Okay fine.
And then on currency I know you sort of shifted the expectation there of 1-point benefit to a 2-point benefit on the top line.
But I'm surprised you didn't call that out in terms of something that was going to insulate your earnings maybe a little bit more than expected.
And can you remind us kind of what the translation is or if there is a multiplier effect in terms of -- if currency is going to benefit the top line by 2 points what's the impact on your operating margin or your operating profit? Is it the same 2 points or is it a little bit more? It's roughly about that.
It always depends on what currencies are moving.
But essentially the change from the 1-point benefit to 2 points of benefit on the top line translation to the bottom line is about $25 million or $30 million of operating profit.
So it is one of those other items that is a bit better than we planned originally.
Perfect okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Wendy.
First question is sort of just a dive in a little bit into the higher cost.
It looks like the midpoint of your expectations are up about $275 million but FORCE will offset $50 million of that.
So I get to $225 million.
And I hate to go sort of faster than the math but that looks like about $0.35 to $0.40 a share after tax.
And I suppose you'll get also some benefit from currency.
But all added in it looks like to offset that you need about 2% higher average pricing over the second half of the year which certainly seems reasonable given your announcements if you can get them.
Am I on the right track there? You're a little high on the price front.
So basically our cost inflation we went up from $200 million to $250 million to around $450 million I think.
And so it was about a couple of hundred million move.
If you get an average about a 1/2 point more price that's $100 million.
Some additional FORCE cost savings.
There's another $50 million.
And then some benefits from currency and between the line spending and those kinds of things is roughly how you'd get there.
Okay I'm sorry.
I'm meant  2% for the half.
So that would be about 1% for the year.
I see.
And of course currency helps you as well.
Now since you you've out both in the U.S.
market on disposable diapers and on retail tissue have you seen anything in the marketplace? Any movement from other competitors so far? I believe that one of our principal competitors has confirmed that they're going up on diaper pricing and on roll tissue.
Got you.
Okay.
Got you.
You'll be able to ask them questions later this week.
Got you.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
So for  one that actually does answer your questions.
That's good to know.
And the last question this is more for Mark not to put you on the spot I just wanted to get an update on the -- this is note 2 from the K.
But when you look at the timber notes you all got back years and years ago I think even carried about $615 million give or take on your balance sheet which kind of overstates your debt and your assets is that number still about right? And do you see that changing much in the next year or two? No I think we've got -- I think the disclosure sort of speaks for itself.
We've got financing out there the secured financing around the timber that we sold.
And… This is more of a tax planning strategy.
So nothing's really changed on that.
Still  remains in force and we hadn't had to pay the tax yet based on how it's been structured.
Yes there's two notes in there Chip and we paid one of those off.
That may be the movement that you're seeing.
Yes so is it now below $617 million or is that...
Yes it's about $400 million.
And was that paid off in the first quarter? No it was last year.
Yes.
Last year got you.
And last question again I understand how...
Hey Chip you're really getting into the 10-K.
That's good.
We try to do our homework.
Well listen the last question is I know that a lot of these structures allow you to kind of -- obviously the longer you can push this out the better it is.
Is this something that you believe you can keep pushing out say for more than 5 years? I don't think we're going to go there on this one Chip.
Yes.
We're pretty deep in the dirt here side.
I think the disclosures sort of stands for itself.
Got you I totally understand.
Thank you very much.
I just wanted to ask a question or 2 about marketing spending because there were sort of no specific mention in the press release.
And I know coming to the year the plan was your strategic marketing to increase faster than sales.
Is that still the plan as we think about it as being more of an in line with sales kind of year or even below? Yes no I would expect to see absolute spending go up this year but probably by about the same or slightly less than sales.
And so we're getting pretty good returns on our innovations spend.
We've got a lot of innovation coming.
And we're also getting some efficiency in how we spend the money.
So we think we're adequately funding the innovation which is our near-term strategy.
Okay and then on paper towels you guys -- I know you notably did not initiate pricing there in North America.
But as we think through the fact that the volumes have been challenged for quite a while now both category and your shares what is the plan? I mean is there innovation coming in towels? Is there efforts to regain some shelf space for Scott Towels? How do you guys thinking about the strategic outlook for that business? Yes no we continue to drive innovation and gain distribution back on both Viva and Scott Towels.
So we're back on air with Viva this year with Mike Rowe our celebrity spokesperson for Viva.
So we've actually -- that's out and the team is making some headway with that.
And so yes I expect to see us continue to support both those brands.
Okay.
And then finally just on curtailment.
So there was some curtailment expense in the quarter.
Where did that leave you at the end of the quarter? Is there an expectation of further curtailment in Tissue in Q2 or 3? Or you think you're pretty clean from here? Well I think the way you should think about it is that we're really focusing on managing two variables.
It is customers service levels and days inventories outstanding.
And so we're taking curtailment as we need to to hit those variables.
And so I think part of the comparison to last year is that because we were on allocation our customer service wasn't where we wanted it to be.
So we ran everything we had in tissue particularly flat out in the first quarter last year.
And this one was probably more normal sequentially to where we were in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
And Lauren so for the full year curtailment really shouldn't be a positive or a negative.
It should be pretty neutral.
Yes.
I'm sorry so does the $25 million in this quarter -- does that sort of work its way through the system so it actually ends up being a positive from here? Or is it just there's no further impact? Yes it could be a small positive.
Okay great.
I'll leave it there.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Lauren.
A couple of things one is kind of housekeeping.
But if you look at your cost of goods sold breakdown and you kind of disclose pulp and polypropylene and some other things that's only about 1/3 of your total cost of goods sold.
So kind of what's going on with the other 2/3 that we really can't track as closely? That should be more than 2/3.
Yes.
I mean our costs are going up Bill on packaging materials adhesives.
Really just about everything that's going into our products are going up.
Individually they may be smaller.
So we don't disclose them.
But then they all add up.
And so you assume similar inflation as some of the oil-based stuff and the pulp? Yes.
But basically if you look at everything from polymer packaging material adhesives superabsorbent they all use the petroleum molecule in some fashion.
And so they're related to that.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then again Wendy asked the question about the second quarter.
But if I look at some of the variances like I think last year you had $105 million of FORCE savings in the quarter.
You had a restructuring benefit.
How do you lap all that stuff ? Again we're more focused on hitting the full year guidance at this point than trying to manage any one individual quarter to have a quarterly comparison that's favorable or unfavorable.
Yes.
And last year FORCE was pretty consistent across the year.
So the big restructuring benefit we got was in the third quarter of '09.
So year-on-year we don't have the same comparison issue maybe that we wrestled with in the third quarter of last year.
Okay I got you.
And then in terms of elasticity on some of this pricing -- I mean are you seeing historical trends prevailing? Or has it gotten worse? I mean how has it been trending? Well the other thing when you look out there at every category you're seeing this kind of pricing popping up.
So it's certainly happening in food.
It's happening in other non-food categories.
It's happening at the gas pump.
And so I suspect what you're seeing is the consumer potential is less sensitive.
I think we're also getting more sophisticated in our pricing ability in terms of targeting price points and understanding consumer shopper behavior.
So where we're doing it with count versus list is more sophisticated as well.
So we're intentionally trying to avoid having big elasticity challenges.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Just looking at the gross margin trend last year.
You saw the commodities went off.
You saw sequential deterioration in the second quarter and the third quarter.
And then in the fourth quarter it really evened out.
And frankly if I remember right it was pretty substantially better than what I was looking for.
And then it looks like it's kind of reversed in the first quarter.
So I'm wondering what is the main difference in the gross margin landscape which looked like it at least on the margin improving in the December quarter and now it looks like it's going the other way in the March quarter? Yes.
I mean sequentially our gross margin was down about 170 basis points from Q4.
A lot of that is going to be -- pulp and polymer in particular are up year-on-year.
But I don't know if Paul can add any color on that.
Yes Doug the two main factors are first as Tom mentioned inflation especially in the oil-based materials.
They moved up quickly in Q1.
And then the other thing is promotion activity.
We had more trade promotion in the first quarter.
So are we going to see that sort of promotional give-and-take as prices go up so that we really won't get the full benefit of the price increase maybe adjusted for promotions until they get really into the third or even fourth quarter? Yes I think we've got some activity in K-C International that you'll start to see in Q2.
But the reality is the big price increase in North America doesn't start to go into effect until the end of Q2.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Obviously comp pressures aren't unique to Kimberly-Clark.
But I was wondering if you could discuss or provide some additional details on your conversations with retailers both domestically and abroad in terms of the cost pressures and the pricing actions that you've been taking.
Yes I think retailers certainly understand what's going on because they're hearing it from every supplier.
So whether you're selling cornflakes or Kleenex you're seeing the impact of higher commodity costs show up in pricing discussions.
And so retailers understand it.
But they also want to understand how you're going to help them drive their business overall and how you're going to make it relevant to the consumer and handle it in the shopping environment.
So I think every one of those discussions goes a little differently but that's basically the nature of it.
And switching gears beyond your share repurchase program that you've already announced could you talk about your priorities for cash use and what you are appetite for potential acquisitions are in this environment? Yes sure.
We continue to -- the dividend is important.
We've increased our dividend at a rate faster than earnings for the last several years and have a top-tier dividend payout.
So that's important to us.
And then obviously providing enough capital to invest in our business to continue the innovation growth and top line growth in emerging markets that we've seen.
So we'll spend close to $1 billion on capital spending this year.
So that's obviously a key priority.
And then where we see tuck-in M&amp;A opportunities we would obviously look for those.
We're disciplined and approach it in that fashion.
But I don't see anything substantial that's on the horizon at this stage.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Could you drill down into the quarter's K-C International volume growth? Specifically did it disappoint you at all? And I know there's both inelasticity and some Venezuela issues in those numbers but presumably neither of those are going away.
So I'm looking for a reason to believe we'll get a recovery there as the year progresses and get something back to normal volume-wise.
I'd say you've seen a little bit slower category growth growing out of China for example we've been growing in last year in the 25% to 30% range in Personal Care.
We were double-digit this quarter but lower double-digit.
We've got a lot of aggressive expansion going on there expect that to continue.
But these are all competitive environments as well.
And so the if Chinese economy slows a bit you could see a little slower rate of category penetration in some of these markets.
Latin America is going to be pretty solid.
So we had x Venezuela had volume growth in Personal Care that was high-single digits.
That's pretty consistent with where it's been with good category penetration.
Eastern Europe is probably the one that's been more of a challenge for us and some of that's just going to take more competitive environment than more competitive pricing pressures.
So that market actually dips in volume in the quarter and we'd expect that to turn around and return to growth with some of the activity that we have planned there for the balance of the year.
Got it.
So were you pricing ahead of your category in Eastern Europe I take it? It was more a competitive activity with pricing below us and we were probably a little slow to come down.
Okay and just one last question.
You commented I think in your prepared remarks that you're expecting live birth growth starting in the second half of this year from what's been a pretty severe decline.
I guess my first question is is that a global expectation? And how does that sort of add up geographically? And then secondly can you share what data you're basing that expectation on? Yes the kind was really related to the U.S.
market.
And we've looked at various consumer confidence surveys to get a projection on that and use the same types of sources.
We can get you the specific details if you're interested.
I'd love to.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
You're welcome John.
Thanks.
A couple of questions actually.
One is clarification.
If you could please revisit what's happening in North America diapers right Huggies' prices were down in the first quarter.
I understand because of trade spending right? And now you expect to a put price increase in place in the 3% to 7% range in the third quarter.
But is this change in pricing has to do with preexisting promotional plans you had in place meaning that it was sort of self-inflicted? Or was it in response to consumer trade down to Luvs to the midyear pricing from Procter &amp; Gamble? No I think two things.
One is that there was a -- I think a principal competitor had made a count change to an effective bonus pack to add some diapers to the pack.
Rather than do that we decided to match on a price-per-diaper basis through higher trade spend.
And so you saw that impact in the first quarter.
Probably the other impact was looking at it versus first quarter last year.
We had relatively fewer events scheduled as we we're getting ready for the Jeans diaper launch that happened in the second quarter last year.
So there was more of a normal event calendar in the first quarter this year.
I see.
Because I mean my question relates to the price increase that Proctor announced -- is announcing to the retailers.
My understanding is it limits only to Pampers not to Luvs.
So the fact that the price increase is only in Pampers does it in any way change your -- the attainability of the price increase for Huggies in the summertime? Well I think a couple of things.
First of all when we announced what we're going to do on price -- and then we see what shakes out in the marketplace and so I think the information on competition is emerging at this point in time.
And we'll see what happens in the marketplace.
Obviously what private label does or other competitors do.
And the second thing is we've got a very strong innovation plan coming with improved mainline Huggies that's beginning to roll-out as we speak.
Jeans diaper  coming in the second quarter and then some strong infant care category innovation in the last half of the year.
And so I think when you're coupling pricing moves with better innovation that typically has a smaller impact on the category.
Understood.
And finally more strategic in terms of your global pricing strategy.
By raising pricing in North America but less so in Europe which is understandable right because you -- I mean the strength of private label there you have sort of a disadvantaged market share position.
Wouldn't you be pushing growth by leaving prices flat in Europe? Wouldn't you pushing growth in a business that is lower margin at expense of the North America business and therefore hurting shareholder value? Is this like -- North America certainly is higher pricing.
You have a better competitive position but at the same time -- if you can't revisit the whole European strategy there because in the end -- if there's no growth in North America there's even less growth in Europe.
So is there a question there Javier somewhere? Yes there is a question.
Okay.
The question basically is why don't you just exit Europe? Okay.
Well that's a different question.
I thought you're going to ask -- no I think the way the pricing strategies play out is that in every individual market you look at the dynamics of cost and competition and you try to get as much net revenue realization as you can.
And you do that through a multiple of ways.
Some involve innovation some involve list price some involve promotion strategy.
So we did some price realization in the U.K.
on Andrex last year where we have a very strong brand really by just adjusting our promotional depth and frequency.
And didn't do anything with list price and we're able to improve our revenue realization by reducing the depth and reducing the frequency.
And so every one of our teams around the world is trying to improve their margins as much as they can by using all the tools that they have available to them.
And so sort of a separate question long term is where is Europe from an attractive standpoint? Overall Europe generates substantial amount of cash.
They delivered on their plan fully in 2010.
And we know they're working hard to deliver on their commitments in 2011 as well.
You understand that what I'm saying is that basically you're subsidizing Europe by taking prices in North America and leaving Europe prices flat.
And therefore you are basically pushing growth in the market that has lower operating margins.
And therefore you're basically destroying shareholder value by doing that.
No no.
I mean you really look at it market by market.
So we're taking price in the U.S.
because of the innovation strength the competitive dynamics and the cost dynamics.
In some markets in Europe where we can get price we'll take price there as well.
But it's really more about optimizing each individual market as opposed to a global pricing strategy.
Okay thank you.
Listen just kind of a big picture question about -- you've had commodity cost pressures pretty on and off for several years now and you've been really good about finding cost savings and increasing your cost savings.
And you're talking about more overhead cost reductions now.
I mean how does that affect your employees and morale? I mean they're just constantly in a cost-cutting cut this cut that type of environment.
Can you just kind of address that question about morale and giving them the idea that there's growth and not just cutting? Yes absolutely.
And I'll be going from this call unto a call with our top 1000 leaders and we're going to talk about our innovation plans for the back half of the year and the exciting things that we have coming in Huggies and U by Kotex and Poise and Depend and the great opportunity we have to continue to drive our KCP wiper and safety business and all the exciting things coming in Health Care and how rapidly we're growing in international markets.
And so it's not about cutting for the sake of cost cutting it's managing those things that we can control so that we can invest in the long-term  future growth options for our business.
And where we're also telling hey we're not going to be victims see here.
This is the way the world is everywhere.
Everybody's got to be good on -- sharp on cost.
We've got to be good at pricing.
We've got to be good at innovation.
And so we're going to make those tough trade-offs to do the most important things.
And the nice-to-have stuff isn't going to get done.
So you see you get a little warm-up of my speech that's going to come to the employees in a few minutes.
Okay thanks.
Thank you Linda.
Thanks.
So want to talk -- I know you talked a little bit about potentially the prices of the inputs continuing to move up a little bit sequentially from here.
As it has been mentioned before on the call that the gross margin performance year-over-year last year was a little bit volatile.
So my math would say you guys had roughly a 6% cost of goods sold per unit inflation basically taking the 10% COGS inflation subtracting that unit growth subtracting that FX.
Should we assume a similar level for the second quarter? And then since the comps change year-over-year in the back half of the lesser level of COGS per unit inflation in the back half on an FX neutral basis if that makes sense? Yes.
I mean I think directionally without doing all the math in my head that sounds right.
But if you look at -- pulp is likely to go up again in April.
Polymer is going up in April from where it was in the first quarter.
So I think we'll probably have more relatively more cost pressure in the second quarter than we -- and the comps get a little easier in the back of the year.
Especially on pulp.
Yes.
Yes okay.
Great.
And then not to sort of pick at this but I thought it was interesting if you guys simply lowered the bottom end of the range of the guidance.
And given the level of pessimism surrounding the numbers today can you talk a little bit about -- if you we're to sort of hit the midpoint or above from that standpoint what do you think would need to go right in order to have a more positive outlook relative towards getting close to the higher end of your guidance? Yes.
Part of the reasons for widening the range was -- when you think about it just our cost estimate alone swung by $0.45 a share from our last guidance to you.
And today we are operating with a $0.15 annual guidance range.
So widening it seemed appropriate.
So how would you get to the top end of the range? If costs wind up being a little bit more positive in the back half of the year if things settle down in the Middle East and oil it wasn't that long ago it was $85 a barrel.
We're not predicting that.
But if you saw some break in commodity costs in the second half that would be a plus.
Obviously full realization of price and innovation and particularly in the back half of the year would get you north of the top end of the range and then delivering the kind of cost savings in SG&amp;A that we talked about.
And so we're aimed at doing all that at least on the things that we can control and think we still got a shot at the guidance range this year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks.
I have some follow-up questions on the promotional activity for diapers in the U.S.
and bath tissue in the U.S.
I think those were highlighted in your press release too.
And your net selling prices in the U.S.
or North America were a negative 3% and net selling negative 2% for bath tissue.
Was that about in line with the industry? Or would you say that that net selling number in both cases was a deeper negative than the industry? Well I think because of the factors that I talked a little bit about is probably a little worse for us from a comp standpoint on the tissue front.
As I said in some areas we had some supply challenges in the first quarter of last year.
So have basically pulled back in promotions.
And so now that we are back to more of a normal promotion environment in Tissue that's a bigger negative for us than it would be for some other competitors.
On the diaper front part of our increase in trade was again getting back to a more normal or a more robust promotional calendar.
So that's probably going to be more our issue.
And then we're matching up with some competitive activity with trade spending versus with other tools.
What one in the U.S.
where you put a bonus pack in that shows up as a different -- shows up as volume growth not us higher trade spend.
All right.
But on the price per unit basis would you say that in diaper child care if you were to look at the numbers that way would net selling prices be going down similarly throughout the industry? Again as I think because of the timing of promotions we're probably going to be at a little higher drag than the industry.
You'd see competitive pricing on shelf.
Yes.
It's more of a comparison issue.
All right.
And then should we expect the same sorts of numbers in both cases in the second quarter because the price increases won't come through yet? No.
I mean I think the case of Tissue our supply issues were stabilized about the second quarter of last year.
So it shouldn't be as big of a drag.
But in child care it might be similar? I would say because we were launching the Jeans diaper last year we'll be doing that again this year.
So again the comparison should be a little easier in the second quarter.
Okay and then once we get to the second half and we get these price increases but maybe you'll also have incremental trade spend more than you did a year ago? I mean are we going to see those price increases you said actually come through in the net selling prices that we see? Or are they going to be -- are the announced price increases going to be offset with incremental trade spending? Well that's obviously our focus is to make sure that those announced list price increases do translate into higher net realized revenue in the back half of the year.
If you take you list up and spend it all back you know you won't have accomplished anything.
And so we'll see what happens in the marketplace.
But we certainly believe that pricing is justified based on the costs.
And if you look at other categories it's happening in lots of other categories around the grocery store.
Okay and then the final piece of that is just to circle back to a former question.
You are not assuming much elasticity so you're going to take this pricing and you don't think volume is going to be hurt? Yes.
I mean you can see some short-term  volume impacts particularly if there's some consumer loading ahead of the price change or trade loading ahead of the price change.
You can see some volumes swings.
But we're not assuming any major volume drag at this point in time.
So the only volume impact would be retailers loading up or not not the consumer responding? At this stage that's our expectation.
Okay thanks a lot.
Just a couple of questions.
I guess the first one just talking about fem care and adult care.
So while the diaper business and I hate saying this has been sagging.
And I know you're starting to lap some of innovation.
How come there hasn't really been any pricing here? Can you talk about that and just your expectations in North America for volume growth that is? Pricing in fem adult.
Yes in some cases the U by Kotex stuff was already by premium-priced.
And so as we've seen our share grow sort of we've been getting the benefit of mix on feminine care and really have seen good momentum.
And again with much higher gross margin categories the cost impacts have a lower relative impact on the overall cost structure.
So we're really focused on driving our growth and return based on our innovation there.
Adult care a similar story with both Poise and Depend.
Categories are growing rapidly.
That's probably our most sensitive consumer from a price-elasticity standpoint.
The primary competitor's private label where we know that there'll be a lag on pricing.
And so we've got strong innovation and mix-accretive innovation coming and are really going to get our net realized revenue improvements there through mix and volume.
Okay.
And just I guess going back to one of the earlier questions just on the cost inflation assumption.
I know you guys have confidence with what you're forecasting.
But can you just lay out like the worst-case scenario? What if pulp goes much higher than what you're anticipating? I mean can you -- similar to what happened a few years ago will you be more aggressive again leading the charge taking more price? Can you lean more on FORCE this year? Are you borrowing from next year's FORCE savings? And I just wanted if you could put -- lay out hypothetically a worst case scenario for us? I think pricing is always set based on expectations.
So we're looking at the forwards for oil.
We're looking at all the industry forecasts for pulp.
And if we saw that there was a much bigger spike coming we wouldn't be shy about taking pricing where we need to to recover that.
I think the challenge has been that the commodity costs have not performed as forecasted.
No one expected the Middle East to melt down here in the first quarter which has driven oil up at a much more rapid pace.
And so I think we're looking at all the same forecasts that we have in the past and that most of our principal competitors are.
And as we see those expectations changing we won't be shy about adjusting price going forward.
Okay and just a last question.
I know you guys have given all your color on volumes staying intact in 1 and 2 not seeing consumers responding.
I'm just wondering -- and just on the KCP side obviously that came in it seems like it's doing better than maybe what we anticipated.
So I'm just wondering how much the volume is better expectations just on the B2B business to kind of help out along the way Health Care obviously lapping some of the H1N1.
Can you just put a little context around that? Ye.
Certainly both B2B businesses were strong volume performance in the quarter probably have easier comps because of both of the economic downturn impact on KCP last year and then the H1N1 impact on healthcare last year.
So that will help I think our overall volume performance.
And I do think that you're seeing signs in some segments of the economy that things are starting to get marginally better.
So we'll look for that to be a volume boost for us this year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Jason.
Hey Chip.
Did you find something else in the 10-K you want to talk about or you...
No we've done enough 10-Ks for 1 morning.
But on the retail tissue side we've seen a lot of activity from your competitors your 2 big ones and even private label on adding basically newer variants of Thru-Air Dried technology.
And I was just wondering if there was something you can give us some insight in terms of how you think about that and what maybe Kimberly might be doing going forward especially as you realign your retail tissue footprint? Yes.
I mean there's more TAD capacity out there but it's also a lot more difficult to make a high-quality premium Thru-Air Dried sheet than just buying a machine and starting it up.
So I'd say both us and P&amp;G have substantial experience in both the fabrics on those machines as well as the chemistry to deliver an advantaged based sheet performance.
And you'll expect to see some improvements in COTTONELLE that we think will be a step change in performance improvement on COTTONELLE which we'll continue to make it the premium product that deserves the market pricing that we're going to have on it this year.
And do you think you have  enough capacity to handle growth in the next say 2 or 3 years? Or will you need to address that? Well I think in the near term we're getting good productivity growth through our lean/continuous improvement.
And so certainly for North America we should be in pretty good shape from a capacity standpoint.
Thank you.
Thanks Chip.
All right.
Thanks David.
We'll turn it back to Tom for a closing comment.
Okay.
Once again it's a challenging environment.
But we've laid out a plan that we think is aggressive but will help us stay on track with our Global Business Plan.
Thank you for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first speaker Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of our second quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspective on our results and discuss our full year 2011 outlook and we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor Section of our website which is www.kimberly-clark.com.
Now before we begin let me remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to adjusted results and outlook today both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
For further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see today's news release and additional information on our website.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with a few headlines.
First we delivered organic sales growth of 3% highlighted by 8% growth in K-C International.
Second cash flow was strong and improved both year-over-year and sequentially from the first quarter.
And third we continue to focus on the right near-term actions to offset cost inflation raising selling prices delivering strong cost savings and reducing our overhead spending.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales increased 8% to an all-time record $5.3 billion.
Organic sales rose 3% on track with our full-year plan sales volumes improved 2% while net selling prices were up 1 point.
Volumes benefited from innovation and our targeted growth initiatives although category demand remained soft in parts of North America.
Second quarter adjusted operating profit rose 1% with an operating margin of 13.6%.
Performance benefited from topline growth and $45 million of FORCE cost savings that was negatively impacted by input cost inflation of $180 million.
That brings year-to-date cost inflation to $375 million which is significantly higher than our previous plans.
Let me spend a few minutes on the cost environment.
Cost for many of our oil-based materials have continued to rise even though oil prices have moderated over the last 3 months.
That's true for polymer resin super absorbent adhesives and other packaging materials.
Costs have been impacted by tight supply for raw materials used in our production and strong global demand particularly in China.
As a result we've raised our cost inflation assumption for the second consecutive quarter.
For the full year we now expect cost inflation of $650 million to $750 million which is higher than our previous plan by $200 million.
That's an incremental headwind of about $0.35 per share.
Nonetheless despite the pickup in cost inflation we're maintaining our previous guidance for adjusted earnings for the year.
Tom will talk more about that in a few minutes.
We're also encouraged that market pulp prices are decreasing by -- in July by $20 to $30 per metric ton.
That's included in our plan.
Now turning back to our second quarter results.
Second quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.18 compared to a $1.20 last year and benefited from a lower share count.
Meanwhile a higher adjusted effective tax rate reduced our earnings by $0.07 per share in the quarter.
Cash provided by operations increased 31% to $771 million driven by lower working capital.
As expected cash generation also improved significantly versus the first quarter.
I expect our cash flow in the second half of the year to be up nicely compared to the first half as our earnings grow and nearly all of our pension plan contributions are behind us.
We repurchased 5.3 million shares of KMB stock in the quarter at a cost of about $350 million.
We're on track to execute our $1.5 billion share repurchase plans for 2011.
Now I'll highlight a few areas of our segment results for the quarter and as usual further details are in this morning's news release.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 3%.
Sales volumes improved 2% and net selling prices were up 1%.
We delivered high single-digit volume growth in K-C International outside of Venezuela and adult care and baby wipes in North America.
On the other hand volumes fell significantly in Venezuela and baby and child care volumes in North America reflect continued soft category demand along with a modest decline in market share compared to strong year-ago levels.
Personal Care operating margins of 17.1% were below prior year as price increases in K-C International and cost savings were more than offset by input cost inflation.
Turning to Consumer Tissue.
Organic sales grew 4% and selling prices were up 2% led by cost-driven price increases in K-C International and our mix improved slightly.
Sales volumes increased 1% as gains in bathroom tissue and Kleenex facial tissue in North America fueled by innovation and share gains were partially offset by declines elsewhere.
Operating margins of 10.4% improved both sequentially and versus the prior year.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other organic sales increased 1%.
Net selling prices were up 2% in response to commodity cost increases while sales volumes fell 1%.
Volumes in North American Safety and total KCP in Europe both declined compared to double-digit increases in the prior year.
On the other hand volumes were up mid-single digits in K-C International and high-margin wipers in North America.
Operating margins of 15.2% were down year-on-year but remain solid and picked up nicely sequentially.
Lastly Health Care organic sales were up 11% driven by higher sales volumes of 10%.
Volumes of high-margin medical devices were up high single-digits in North America including strong growth from I-Flow.
Supply volumes grew double-digits and benefited from improved category demand in North America along with some distributor and end-user inventory reductions in the year-ago period.
Operating margins were above prior year levels as sales growth in cost savings more than offset cost inflation.
So that wraps up the review of the quarter.
To recap we achieved organic sales growth consistent with our plan led by K-C International delivered strong cash flow and we continue to take aggressive actions to offset commodity inflation.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll share my perspectives in our second quarter results and our full-year outlook and then we'll get to your questions.
In short we continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies and we continue to target top and bottom line results for 2011 that are in-line with our previous guidance.
So let's start with our second quarter results.
Although adjusted earnings per share were down slightly versus last year we delivered sequential improvements in most areas.
Organic sales growth margins earnings per share and cash provided by operations all improved versus first quarter levels.
This gives us confidence in our ability to deliver improved results in the second half of this year.
Let's look more closely at a few areas of performance in the quarter.
Our organic sales growth of 3% was on track with our full year plan.
I'm encouraged with our 2% volume growth which we achieved despite continued weakness in the baby child care and K-C Professional washroom categories in North America.
As you heard from Mark we continue to make good progress with our targeted growth initiatives.
In North America that was particularly true in adult care K-C Professional wipers and Health Care medical devices.
And K-C International had a very strong quarter highlighted by great volume performance in Personal Care in a number of markets including China most of Latin America and the Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region.
We're gaining market share in a number of our businesses.
In the U.S.
we held or increased market share in 6 of our 8 key consumer categories.
That includes share gains of 3 points in adult care 2 points in baby wipes and facial tissue and 1 point in bathroom tissue.
And to the first half of the year our shares are even with or ahead of last year in 7 out of the 8 categories.
In K-C International we're also growing ahead of category rates in a number of markets including Brazil and China.
We have a number of innovations coming to market in the near term that includes Huggies Little Movers Slip-On diapers which launches in just a few weeks and we're excited about this first-of-a-kind innovation in North America and we are also introducing it in some markets in K-C International.
We also have exciting innovations coming soon in Kleenex facial tissue and Poise pads.
Let's shift now to cost reduction.
I'm encouraged by our progress delivering FORCE cost savings and overhead spending reductions.
Our efforts in these areas helped us improved gross and operating margins 50 basis points sequentially from first quarter levels even though our input cost increased further.
I'm also pleased with our cash generation in the second quarter.
Our strong cash flow enables business reinvestment and shareholder-friendly capital allocation.
On that front second quarter dividends and share repurchases totaled $630 million and full year amounts should be around $2.6 billion.
Last quarter we shared with you the 3 areas that we're focused on to offset cost inflation: improving revenue realization; delivering FORCE cost savings and reducing overhead spending.
For the full year we're now ahead of or on track with our previous plans in each of these areas which is very important since the commodity cost environment has worsened again over the last 3 months.
Let me give you a short update on each of these areas.
First on the revenue front we're getting good traction with a number of our pricing initiatives in K-C Professional and in K-C International and we expect full year benefits to be somewhat higher than we previously estimated.
Elsewhere price increases have started to go into effect for our North American bathroom tissue business.
While still relatively early we're cautiously optimistic that these increases will be realized in the marketplace.
While implementation of our diaper price increase in North America has been delayed slightly we continue to expect that overall price mix improvements will benefit our top line by 1% to 2% for the full year.
Second we continue to identify and implement incremental FORCE cost savings programs and we're raising our savings target for the second consecutive quarter.
Our new target is $300 million to $350 million that's $50 million more than our previous plan.
And third our teams are making excellent progress reducing overhead in discretionary spending.
As a result we reduced our full year SG&amp;A spending plan significantly and now expect the total between the lines expenses will grow at a much lower rate than sales growth.
Altogether we expect these actions along with stronger currency exchange rates to essentially offset the incremental inflationary headwinds we're now expecting compared to our previous plans.
So we continue to target full year adjusted earnings in the range of $4.80 to $5.05 per share for 2011.
Nonetheless without some moderation and commodity cost it's more likely that 2011 results will be in the lower half of that range.
So to summarize we continue to execute our strategies for the long-term success of Kimberly-Clark.
We're making excellent progress managing those factors we control to deliver solid results in the short term and we're firmly convinced that successful execution of our Global Business Plan will continue to improve shareholder value.
That wraps up our prepared remarks.
And now we'll begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Two questions.
First of all can you talk about sort of the early receptivity if you will of the pricing that you've put into the marketplace? Are you getting pushback from the retailers that you need to increase your level of promotional spending or anything like that to sort of defray some of that impact? And then my second question is on the Health Care side that business looks like it's kind of come roaring back from a volume perspective.
Is there fair degree of visibility that in the back half those kind of higher levels of volumes will continue? Because I know you face some pretty easy comps there.
On the pricing front I would say it's progressing about as we would normally expect and so I think most retailers want to make sure they're not going to be disadvantaged.
But I think they also see pricing going up in lots of categories across the store.
And so ours are no different as we feel the pressure of commodity cost.
So you're starting to see retails go up and hopefully we'll be able to sustain that through the second half.
On the Health Care volume front we did have really easy comps.
And you may recall last year about this time we had actually some distributors returning products that were bought in prior periods for the H1N1 crisis.
So we would guess probably about half of the 10-point volume increase was related to the easy comp and then the more normal underlying growth rate is more in the mid single digits which is what we'd expect going forward.
Okay fair enough.
And then back on the pricing side just for a minute I mean even though we've seen whatever a lot of volatility and pulp prices maybe starting to roll over net-net the pricing that you've put in place I mean the probability that that could be rescinded or anything like that I mean we'd have to see a pretty substantial further change in pulp before you backed off any of the price increases you put through.
Isn't that fair to say? We got a long way to go just to get back to even here so.
The next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Just looking on the pulp for a moment I just want to understand the guidance a little bit further.
You mentioned the July decrease was in line with your estimates.
First-half pricing seemed to be kind of in line with the low end of your guidance.
There's some other decrease in the market for August.
I mean does that imply that you're looking for some sort of rebound later in the year? I'm just curious what you're seeing there.
Yes we typically look at the 3 industry forecasters and average those.
If you look at where we were at $970 in the first quarter.
We were at $1 030 for the second quarter.
So for the first 6 months we're averaging about $1 000 a ton.
Our guidance for the full year is $1 000 to $1 020 and that would say that there's the risk of there'll be some pickup in the back half which is what the forecasters are saying.
There may be a little bit of upside on that.
We'll have to see.
Okay.
And can you just talk generally about what you're seeing with the consumer? Have you seen any changes in buying behavior with the soft patch that we've seen in the broader macro data? Not yet in fact one encouraging sign was that private label shares were really down across the board in virtually every category both sequentially and year-over-year.
So I think behind the innovation that we're driving and others are driving in the marketplace the categories are looking a little healthier.
We would like to see a little quicker uptick in the birthrate which that's probably the other sign of economic confidence that's been weak for longer than we would have guessed.
But we're starting to see some early signs that that maybe improving although the category will still be down more than we would have expected for the year.
And just a last question on feminine care.
Your volumes were I guess well to just flat year-on-year.
You're obviously comping a lot through by Kotex.
But I'm just wondering are you seeing increasing competition there and any issue I guess sequentially in terms of share? No.
I think our shares were down half a point or something sequentially.
But the Kotex shares hang in there at about 5.
And so I would say at this point we're not seeing anything major from a competitive front that's happening in the marketplace and we've got good product improvements yet coming this year so expect to hear more from that space.
Okay.
And I guess one last question.
In terms of resin so your third quarter prices or your July prices were up from what they were in June and I mean is there any sort of contractual lag that you would expect to see some benefit from lower oil prices? What's actually happening is that -- and this is probably a more complicated explanation than maybe you're looking for -- is because of the relative price of oil versus natural gas a lot of the refineries are using natural gas more on their steam crackers.
And as a result they're producing lots of the polymer byproducts that go into many of the things that we use like polypropylene or adhesives or packaging materials.
And so there's still some relative shortages of the monomers that go into our supply chain.
And so you're seeing still pretty firm pricing for polymers and adhesives and super-absorbents and things like that.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Could you talk about on the baby business in the U.S? I think you said your share was down a little bit.
Is that expected to improve later? Why is your share down and why should it improve? Yes I mean I'd say our shares have been bouncing around between 36 or 37 and we're more on the 36 side of that this quarter.
So it's down about a point or so but last year was kind of a high watermark.
So it's a little tougher comp.
We've got a lot of innovation coming in the second half with this Huggies slip-on diapers as well as some product improvements to our mainline so I think innovation typically drives share in this category and we'd expect to see some uptick due to the innovation that we've got coming.
Inc.</strong> And is the share loss in this quarter tied to your comment you said that diaper pricing was delayed a little bit? No.
I mean the pricing is going to really didn't have that much impact on share.
We thought prices are going to go up in July.
It's looking more like it's going to be October at this point.
Inc.</strong> And why the delay? For the competitive activity shook out and one key packing in the category which has typically been our merchandise and cardboard boxes.
The industry is shifting to polybags.
And it takes a little longer to convert the assets for that new format.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it's not that your major competitor is causing a delay in pricing going through? We don't believe so.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
Can you just sort of remind us why Personal Care margins overall are down year-over-year while consumer tissues are up? Why the difference in direction? Is it just easier comps for tissue? Yes.
I'd say more of the pulp hit tissue last year and Personal Care is really being hit by all of the secondary materials costs so polymer adhesives packaging superabsorbent are all up double digits this year.
The other thing Alice is that more of the pricing has already been taken in Consumer Tissue and Personal Care pricing comes more later in the year.
Our next question comes from Per Ostlund with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Want to talk a little bit about the paper restructuring since you are accelerating that activity here.
As we get through that restructuring can you help us understand just a little bit how the commodity cost sensitivity changes or actually does it change? Is the sensitivity still there and it just won't be as capital-intensive or will you truly have a better control over your cost and then the inflation expectation that go with that? Yes.
I guess I would say it probably makes our sensitivity to pulp price slightly worse.
We were about 10% integrated with these 2 pulp facilities.
On the other hand they're relatively high-cost pulp mills so they didn't provide an enormous economic hedge benefit.
They did provide some volatility benefit.
And so we'll be slightly more exposed to the swings in pulp price without these mills.
Yes.
Obviously the other thing is the nature of the products that are produced at those mills are more value or private-label oriented which tend to be lower margins.
So there will be a slight mix improvement.
Well the better mix that's right.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris &amp; Company.
I was just curious in the Consumer Tissue segment.
The mix had been trending sort of positive up 1% or so and now it was sort of flattish.
Is there a particular reason for that that you can explain? I mean I think Scott tissue had a good quarter.
But so did COTTONELLE I mean we picked up share overall in bath tissue.
And so yes there's nothing major that I'd say.
We got more innovation coming on Kleenex in the back half and second quarter is typically a weak facial tissue quarter because you don't have as much of the cold and flu or back-to-school impact.
So that probably also affects it a little bit.
Okay.
And just on your inventory I guess it was a little improved.
It was up 13% year-over-year.
I think it was up maybe 14% last quarter.
So maybe a little improved but it's still up quite a bit.
Are you feeling comfortable with that? And was there any curtailment effect in the quarter? Yes.
I mean I'll let Mark comment on the inventory.
Curtailment was negligible.
I think it was about $10-million hit.
And if we look at days of inventory in our supply chain it was maybe up under a day first quarter second quarter.
But there's some opportunity in the back half.
But Mark maybe you can comment on that if you got any other color on it.
Yes.
The improvement -- so inventory is right in line.
We have a lot of innovation coming to the markets so the businesses are wanted to make sure they can support product launches with the right levels of inventory.
So we feel good overall about our management of inventory.
The benefit in our working capital for the quarter was extension of payables.
So it was the principal driver which our global procurement organization is doing a great job of managing.
So overall we feel pretty good about working capital.
Okay.
And can I just ask there's been a lot of speculation over Carl Icahn's involvement with Clorox and he has listed Kimberly-Clark as being one of the companies that should be looking at acquiring Clorox.
And you sort of have this health and hygiene kind of strategic thrust both in your company and in Clorox.
Can you just comment on do you think there's any kind of strategic set and if there's certain areas that would be or certain areas wouldn't be? Is there anything you can say? Yes I mean because I'd say we typically don't comment on rumors of M&amp;A.
I guess I would say this is that -- our plan as we said to many investors doesn't call for big transformational M&amp;A.
And so I don't think any of the announcements related to Clorox change that point of view and we would consider the Clorox to be a well-managed company.
And so as we look at it it's hard to see how you come in and do a whole lot better job of it.
The next question comes from Javier Escalante with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> I have a question with regards to whether you think that you need to increase prices higher or in more places given that number one your cost inflation has worsened by $200 million while your estimate for savings is up by only $50 million.
And I have another question after that.
Yes absolutely.
Javier one of our key strategies for this year is to get up price whenever we can.
And so we have been aggressive in many markets around the world.
And looking at revenue realization some cases are doing that through list price some places through mix some places through innovation.
And so that's a key strategy for us this year.
LP</strong> And then the second question has to do with SG&amp;A that came down more than I would have thought.
Number one FORCE savings were only $45 million versus $60 million in the first quarter.
So what drove the SG&amp;A reduction? Has marketing and spending been dialed back in the quarter and if so by how much? Yes a couple of things there.
We probably don't do a very good job of tracking SG&amp;A savings in FORCE.
Most of the FORCE savings tend to be cost-of-sales-oriented and so that's probably part of it.
The second part of it is that marketing spending was down versus prior year in the quarter which last year was the launch of you U by Kotex as well as Poise and so marketing year-on-year was down probably $20 million to $25 million but sequentially was up $10 million.
So we spent in the second quarter about the same level or a little bit higher than we did in the first quarter.
LP</strong> And on the savings basically you were up in the savings or savings to $300 million to $350 million.
If I am calculating correctly you basically have $105 million in savings accrued in the first 2 quarters so that means that you need to ramp up the savings to $245 million.
Could you explain the kind of activities and what is going to drive these accelerated savings given that it's been a little bit on the low end at the beginning of the year? And that would by my last question.
Yes absolutely.
No that's a good question.
It is back-end loaded.
We've got an aggressive plan really principally around our growth procurement program.
It's got substantial benefits yet to come and there is a lot of programs underway that will be delivering value for us in the second half.
We're also continuing to drive our lean manufacturing profits throughout our plants and we'd expect to see additional savings from that.
In addition we have our usual material cost savings programs that will continue to deliver in the back half.
So the plan is back-end loaded but we got enough visibility that we're confident we'll be able to get this year.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the European market.
Clearly it sounds like 3 months from your last conference call the North American market is a little bit more status quo KCI is a little bit better but Europe still seems to be kind of the swing factor in terms of how the year may play out.
Can you just talk a little bit both from a Consumer Tissue and from a Personal Care side? Yes.
I mean I was just in Europe a couple of weeks ago and that team is committed to delivering their plan for the year and they've got actions in place to do just that.
They've got lots of cost savings coming to help offset cost inflation.
They also are planning on getting some pricing in some of their key categories.
We probably had a softer start on diaper volume at the beginning of the year but they've got a number of things underway to help turn that around in the second half.
So I came away feeling encouraged that the European team while our plan is back-end loaded they've got plans in place to make sure they can deliver.
LLC</strong> And within your guidance obviously if you look at the market growth versus the innovation obviously you've talked about some innovation I mean what sort of expectations are you building into Europe? Are you looking for a nice sequential improvement? Can you put a little color around that? In terms of top line or product line? LLC</strong> Top line.
Yes I'm just focusing top line.
I think Europe's top line probably isn't going to change all that much and I think you'll see much better bottom line as some of the cost savings come through.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just a clarification question.
When you talked about the diaper pricing in October was that just on the pack change or is that also where I think there was some list price changes as well with some of the categories? There will be some implementation of the list price changes but there's also a fair amount of promotion protection that will take place in the third quarter.
So I would say we're probably not going to get a lot of price realization in our third quarter and more it will come in the fourth quarter.
And Jason most of the pricing actions at the end of the day is tied to count reductions only a minority portion of it is coming through list price changes.
It's a big part of the category these days.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a last thing.
Can you talk to me or sell me on these slip-on diapers just in terms of I guess the consumer testing that you've done out there why it took so long to come up with this idea? Sounds a lot like a training pant.
So I'm just wondering if you could just talk to me about it.
I have a baby so maybe I'd be in the market for it.
No I think it's a big idea around the world.
If you want to look to the Japanese market it's a significant amount of the category.
We've launched it in Korea as well and it's done very very well.
And so it's really another option for mom diapering an active baby.
So it gives her additional flexibility.
And so we do think -- it's priced from a value standpoint.
It's going to be very similar to a price for a training pant.
We know we need to continue to drive value around our training pant business but we do think it's going to be a good option for mom.
And so research is customed very favorably.
And we've been at this idea a number of different ways for a number of years.
We launched the product -- I don't know -- it's probably 5 years ago now called Huggies Convertibles.
And we were aimed at this and didn't quite get the execution right.
We thought it was a big idea then and we're going to go back out and we think we've got a much better execution this time.
LLC</strong> And I know part of launching is obviously the competitive advantage but just can you talk about training pants then in terms of the growth or lack of growth maybe you're seeing there and just the timing of coming out with the product here that I assume would be at a premium to diapers and especially when the category is still seeing some softness right now? The category is really soft because of the birth rate but mom still wants the very best for her baby and part of what's happening in the training pant category is as we've seen category weakness for several years it's -- finally those children are migrating into training pants and that's having an impact on the category.
But we believe we're going to exceed to bring innovation to the category even with the category is down to moms that are there who want the very best for their babies.
Next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A few questions.
One is if you could just talk a little bit more about the dichotomy of growth that you're seeing right.
So KCI 8% all in 3 and I think the way you guys define KCI is about a 30-year business.
So you're really not seeing much growth maybe on around then roughly to 0 in the rest of the business.
Can you talk about that difference? Can you talk how that's driven by price versus volume between those 2 groups kind of KCI and non-KCI? And then also how you think about the outlook for especially the non-KCI part over the next whole while? Yes.
I guess I'd say if you look at the various categories in the U.S.
you'd see a mixed bag here as well.
You'd see the diaper category is down.
And so that's obviously been a drag across diapers and pants.
But wipes is up.
And so we continue to do very well there.
And then if you looked at that Poised and depends those are on trend with aging and you're seeing still strong mid-single-digit category growth.
And we've done even better than that over the last couple of quarters.
Some care we've had consistent strong growth behind the smooth innovation launch.
So we're seeing better results on that standpoint.
So with Europe you'd see more X currency negative organic growth which really is something that's not too surprising given what's going on in that marketplace.
And then KCP you're still seeing a relatively weak economic outlook which hurts our washroom business relatively better results in safety and wipers.
And Health Care obviously in the quarter we had an unusually large volume growth.
We'd expect that to be more mid-single-digits going forward.
Inc.</strong> And so if you have a current situation particularly outside KCI it doesn't sound like you're again planning a lot of price elasticity when you start thinking about the PC price increases late in the year.
So if you could talk about that.
And then also for the emerging markets you mentioned in the past few quarters it's been difficult to take pricing in the emerging market to offset currencies or to offset commodities basically because of competitive environment.
Has that curtailed a little bit or is that still an issue? So we've gotten more price in emerging markets particularly in the last quarter.
I don't know Paul if you've got the details of that.
Yes.
Ali our total price was up 4% in K-C International and we also had a point of mix as well.
So we've been doing a good job getting revenue both in Personal Care primarily in Latin America and then in Consumer Tissue really in all regions of the world.
Inc.</strong> And on the price elasticity question the first part? I think if you look at from a diaper standpoint we really try to do a better job of understanding how the consumer shops and are bringing price in a way that will cause less sticker shock than maybe we have in the past.
So just doing it by account change across the big part of the category we think we'll have a reduced elasticity impact versus a straight list price change.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just one last clarification on the marketing research and general expenses number that's down 25 bps.
Can you just aggregate that in terms of percent of spend in advertising versus overhead reduction? I think the answer to an earlier question marketing which should be advertising and promotion is down by $25 million year-on-year.
It’s up about $10 million sequentially and then the balance is SG&amp;A.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Just a quick question in -- I'm trying to figure out -- if we take a look at your raw material inflation the key input cost increase of $375 year-to-date your total COGS is up it looks like just over $700 so roughly half of your COGS increase is represented by the raw material inflation.
If we take your outlook for the balance of the year which I think works out to like $275 to $375 and sort of went double that and added that to COGS I think we'd end up with a gross margin over the back half that's probably roughly in line with the second quarter gross margin.
But given sort of the comp there where you had much higher input inflation in the back half and also the pricing any thoughts in terms of sort of sequentially how we should see the gross margin play out over the back half of the year? Yes.
I mean I guess we'd say for the year we'd expect gross margin to be down somewhat more than operating margin.
We're saying operating margins is going to be down 50 to 70 basis points for the year.
And so just given where we're at and what we have yet to go I think will maybe close the gap a little bit in the back half but we'll guess that we'll be down a little bit more in gross margin than we will in operating margin.
John you should see both gross and operating margin sequentially improved in the back half of the year consistent with our expectation for earnings to ramp up.
Okay got it.
That's what I was looking for.
I mean but in order to get to sort of closing that gap you would need sequentially a decent sized uptick and I guess the issue really revolves sort of as it comes in at the lower end of the raw materials range and then better leverage from pricing is that kind of the way to look at it? And so pricing is part of it.
We've got much more cost savings come in the back half.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
So I just want to go back to the diaper pricing delay for a second.
Can you just talk I guess about what changed incrementally like why did it get delayed? And then I get that we already knew what it's going to be.
Some of us could be downtown but what change from last time to now? I think the big shift was deciding to take the big box to polybags.
And so that was the discussion that happened among us and our principal customers in terms of how we wanted to present the category to the shopper.
I assume that our primary competitor was also having some discussions with their primary customers.
And so primary customers were pushing hard to take the category to polybags which makes more sense.
We've been talking about doing that for a while actually it's a much better environmental solution.
And so we decided to go ahead and make that change which will actually give us some more economic benefit in 2012 because the cost of poly is less than the cost of the cardboard boxes that we're putting it in.
So in discussions with key customers that a decision that was made in the last quarter.
And I guess on the overhead savings can you talk a little bit about what the specifics are there? Obviously you guys have sourced a lot of savings from overhead this quarter.
It looks like it's been a continued lead [ph].
Can you just touch on some of the specific items that are getting cut in addition to marketing? I mean it's just being disciplined about the things that we can control.
And so I'll be going onto a call with our top 1 000 leaders after this to talk about how we need to do an even better job of controlling our controllables.
So it's SG&amp;A it's travel it's headcount it's how do we use pure consultants and how do we use less contract labor? So we're really trying to manage all of those details very tightly to make sure that we control the things that we can control in a difficult economic environment.
I guess and how much of it relates to that difficult economic environment versus how much the stuff you should be doing anywhere right? Because it just strikes me it's a pretty big number and then you think about marketing and you guys have been a company that's been pretty consistent in the last couple of years at least with pushing marketing higher even though the cost environments have been tough and now marketing might be down as much as 15% this quarter.
So I guess the question is can you talk about marketing and the rest of overhead and how much of this is a reaction to what's going on versus how much is sustainable? Well I mean again marketing was up about $10 million sequentially.
And so last year you had the launch of U by Kotex and some new Poise things that happened in the second quarter so that was probably the biggest quarter from a marketing spending standpoint we've had in a while.
We've got more of our innovation coming in the back half.
So with the Huggies Little Movers Slip-On diapers coming and some new Kleenex products and new Poise product is coming we'll have a little bit heavier spend in the back half this year than we did last year.
Then I think the other 2 drivers as we drive lean were more advanced in supply chain.
But as we drive lean through the back office we're finding opportunities to streamline the way that work gets done and get more work out of the talent that we have provide better opportunities for them to have an impact on the business.
And the other thing is mix.
I think we're getting better and more sophisticated both at our research investments our innovation investments and our marketing investments.
So we're getting more bang for each dollar that we spend.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is I noticed and maybe this has been addressed before but the depreciation charges this year are much higher than what they've been in the past and of course you're still making earnings so that's terrific for cash flow.
Could you talk a little bit about why they are higher and what we should expect going forward should they stay at this like between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion rate? Yes.
Most of that is the restructuring charge for the tissue restructuring has really spiked up depreciation and so that's a good chunk of it.
Ongoing depreciation is $800 million to $850 million.
So obviously that's got the charge in there.
And that starts to come down early next year because you're accelerating that program correct? Yes.
We should be through it by the end of 2012 but we'll have a lot of it in this year I think.
Got you.
And then you did mention by the way that there will be some cash costs significant involved with this.
Would that also be incurred this year or does that bleed more into next year? In other words do you take more of earnings hit this year although it's not ongoing and actually spend the money next year? I think that the timing of that is probably still hard to call at this point in time because of where we are in the various processes.
We had some cash cost already in the second quarter I think it was $15 million.
And we may have more later this year but some of it could spill into 2012.
Got you.
And then as we look at 2012 -- and obviously strategic opportunities can come up.
But barring that it looks like -- is there any reason why we would not see your share buyback pace stay? I know it's quite elevated but stay at $1 billion or higher next year or do you think it's more likely to settle back down? This year was unusual.
I mean we really roughly doubled what we would normally buyback.
And so we'll give you more specific guidance on 2012 in January but if our strong cash flow continues expect to see us put it to good use for our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Okay.
And then lastly as we look at China you mentioned you're having a good growth there above the market rate.
And my understanding is that you are mostly involved disproportionately perhaps versus the population in the northern half.
Is there any movement to broaden your base there or make it more proportional? Yes absolutely.
The Eastern Seaboard of China is where lots of the GDP is today and so for Huggies for example at the end of the year we were in 50s or so cities.
Today we're probably in 65 cities and so we're just continuing to expand our distribution base for our key products in China and expect that to continue for quite a while.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Did you say what the local currency operating profit growth was in the quarter? I don't think we did.
But from a translation standpoint Bill currency benefited the top line by about 5% the same would be true on operating profit.
Okay so it's pretty linear there? Yes.
Okay got you.
And then can you just like give us a little more granularity on where some of the SG&amp;A costs are coming from? I know you talked about advertising which looks like it's going to tick up a little bit in the back of the year.
But what was like the big revelation this year that's going to drive such robust cost savings and if you can give like line item by line item as much as you can? Yes I mean I think we've got everybody focused on controlling the things that they can control.
So we're doing a good job as Mark mentioned in driving lean into our various processes.
We're trying to manage our headcount tight.
And where we need to deploy talent to build some new capability we're trying to source that by efficiency in other areas.
We're managing travel and consultancy costs tightly.
And everybody is very conscious of -- particularly with the cost inflation that we got this year that we've got no excuses.
We're going to control the things that we can control to try to deliver our objectives this year.
Okay great.
And then just on pricing again.
I mean it sounds like K-C to Mexico had some challenges to be nice on some of the price increases.
Is that just discreet to Mexico or is there any risk in the U.S.
and the rest of Latin America on that front? Yes I think that they had a real tough quarter in pushing some of the price increases through and we'll see how that plays out.
So far I'd say I'm encouraged about what we see happening in the U.S.
And we've had pretty good success in a number of other International markets in taking price.
And I think we're not alone relative to lots of other CPGs that are needing to get price with this kind of commodity cost environment.
Okay.
And then just lastly did the delay of the diaper price does it have anything to do with Luvs not taking the pricing? Was that the original plan? Does the delay have anything to do with that? No.
I mean really Luvs tends to line up more in private label.
So we'll watch that space to see what happens.
If private label goes up I would expect you might see Luvs follow that.
Okay.
So but -- is [indiscernible] will not go do the pack count change? We don't have good visibility of what they're up to so what typically happens is there's a little bit of a lag generally at least 90 days and sometimes a bit longer before private label lines up.
But I'm sure they're under the same cost pressures that we are and I expect to see some pricing action happen there over time.
The next question comes from Caroline Levy with CBSA.
This is Michael Lavery in for Caroline as CLSA.
Just was wondering on the overhead it looks like your corporate cost are down double digits about 6 quarters in a row obviously that's all the efficiencies you've referring to but how long can you keep that up? That seems high relative to our expectation.
What numbers are you looking at there Michael? Well I think -- well so I guess the difference there...
We're just trying to keep them from going up.
I don't think they're down double digits.
You may be looking at an allocated segment cost or something.
Well I think in '09 that exclude some of the items that you hadn't called out as extraordinary because of the 1 year timing of them.
But it looks like sort of an ongoing run rate.
There's some good declines.
Is that something you can keep up? Yes I would say broadly our goal is to try to grow SG&amp;A at a slower rate than sales.
And so certainly in some of our businesses like Europe you're seeing them not grow.
But if you look back and looked at like '09 we had a large severance program and that may have spiked that up in '09 and then we got the savings from it in 2010.
So we got a lot of benefit if you look at at that SG&amp;A line between '09 and '10 but those were more kind of related to those unusual factors.
And so I'd say going forward it'd be better to model it at growing at a slower rate than our sales growth.
Michael this is Paul.
So from year-to-date basis those unallocated costs are very similar to year-ago levels.
So we're tracking in line with what Tom suggested.
Okay yes.
So just -- I'm talking about just for the corporate line sorry not the SG&amp;A right.
And so that would be around the pace that it should keep up? Yes.
And then for the pricing obviously in KCI you've mentioned some benefits like in LatAm but when you get the pricing coming from the recent increases in U.S.
what would that look like on the segment basis? Like in Personal Care or tissue how much acceleration would we likely see there? Let's say the price increase on diapers is about 7% that's the biggest chunk of Personal Care segment.
But there isn't any price in the marketplace at this point in time on feminine care and adult care.
I think baby wipes price increase is about 5%.
So you probably see a low to mid single-digit price impact just from the U.S.
market in that segment.
In tissue the price increases are more mid-single digit.
And so and some of that is going to come through sheet count some is coming through lift so you'll see kind of a mix there.
But I guess you'd see probably a mid-single-digit pricing in tissue sequentially going forward.
And with that kind of magnitude how much of a volume would you expect you might see like if the sheet counts and count reductions are part of that is that a direct volume hit just because of smaller pad size? Yes you'll typically see a volume drag particularly from sheet count essentially reducing the household inventory for a period of time.
You'll see a bit of a blip on diapers as well although consumers tend to use about the same number of diapers per day.
And so we've also got a lot innovation coming in the second half.
And so if you look at the balance of those 2 it's a little tougher to call.
At this time we have no further questioners in the queue.
Okay then we'll wrap up with a quick closing comment from Tom.
So once again we continue to execute our Global Business Plan well in a very challenging environment.
And we thank you for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me in Dallas today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for the call.
Mark will begin with a review of our third quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and also the full year outlook.
We'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor Section of our website which is www.kimberly-clark.com.
Before we begin let me remind you we'll be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We'll also be referring to adjusted results and outlook today both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
For further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see today's news release and additional information on our website.
With that I'll turn it over to Mark Thanks Paul and good morning.
I'll start with the headlines.
First we delivered organic sales growth of 4% highlighted by 11% growth in K-C International.
Second adjusted earnings per share were $1.26 an 11% increase compared to last year.
And third cash flow remained strong as we generated approximately $0.75 billion dollars in cash provided by operations.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales increased 8%  to an all-time record $5.4 billion.
Organic sales rose 4% driven by higher net selling prices of 3%.
Product mix and sales volumes each improved slightly.
Volumes benefited from product innovation and targeted growth initiatives.
However soft demand in portions of North America and Europe largely offset these gains.
Third quarter adjusted operating profit rose 8% with an operating margin of 14.1%.
Benefits from top line growth and $90 million of FORCE cost savings more than offset cost inflation of $150 million and higher than expected production curtailment to manage inventory levels.
As expected FORCE savings picked up nicely from the first half of the year and our teams continue to push aggressively to maximize savings.
Nonetheless with year-to-date savings of $195 million we could fall somewhat short of our target range of $300 million to $350 million of savings for the year.
Third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.26 compared to $1.14 last year.
The improvement was driven by higher operating profit along with a lower share count and a lower effective tax rate.
Given our year-to-date adjusted tax rate of 30.1% we now expect the full year rate to be toward the low end of our target for the year of 30% to 32%.
Cash provided by operations increased slightly to $750 million in the third quarter.
I'm encouraged by our cash generation and expect a strong finish to the year.
We repurchased 0.6 million shares of KMB stock in the quarter at a cost of $40 million.
As mentioned in our news release we've decided to accelerate an additional $260 million of pension contributions into 2011 and reduce our full year share repurchase target by the same amount.
This will improve our pension-funded status nicely from current levels and it will allow us to make much more modest contributions next year while setting us up for a strong year of share repurchases in 2012.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
As usual further details are in our news release.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 5% with volumes and net selling prices each advancing about 3%.
K-C International had a terrific quarter with 15% organic growth led by strong performance in Latin America China and South Korea.
In North America we continue to generate high single-digit to low double-digit volume growth in adult care feminine care and baby wipes.
On the other hand volumes were down in infant and child care.
The volume softness reflects category declines competitive promotional activity reductions at customer inventory levels in diapers and some consumer trade-down in the child care category.
Personal Care operating margins of 16.6% remained below prior year.
Input cost inflation production curtailment and higher between-the-line spending were partially offset by benefits from top line growth and cost savings.
Now turning to Consumer Tissue.
Organic sales were off 1%.
Net selling prices rose 4% in response to cost inflation and product mix was favorable by 1%.
On the other hand volumes fell 6% reflecting sheet count reductions in North America our focus on revenue realization and strong promotion support for COTTONELLE bath tissue in the third quarter last year.
Consumer Tissue operating margins improved to 12% our best performance in 2 years that was driven by sales growth cost savings and lower between-the-line spending.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other.
Organic sales rose 5%.
The increase was due to improved volumes of 3% and higher net selling prices of 2%.
Volumes were up mid- to high-single digits in K-C International in Europe.
On the other hand volumes were even with year-ago levels in North America as high unemployment and office vacancy levels continue to impact market demand.
Operating margins of 14.7% were similar to last year.
And lastly Health Care organic sales were up 8% driven by higher sales volumes.
Medical supply volumes rose double-digits led by growth in surgical products and exam gloves reflecting improved North American demand.
In addition global medical device volumes increased high single digits including strong growth in Europe and Asia.
Operating margins of 13.8% were somewhat above last year driven by sales growth and cost savings.
So that wraps up the review of the quarter.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth led by K-C International.
We delivered strong growth in adjusted earnings per share and we continue to generate significant cash flow.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll share my perspectives on our third quarter results and our full year outlook and then we'll get to your questions as usual.
So starting with the third quarter I'm encouraged that we were able to deliver 4% growth in organic sales and deliver double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
We overcame significant cost inflation and also softer-than-expected demand in parts of the developed markets.
Some of the keys to this performance was our focus on our targeted growth initiatives our focus on revenue realization and our focus on delivering cost reduction.
Let me share a few of the highlights with you in each of these 3 areas.
First we made excellent progress with our targeted growth initiatives.
In North America that's particularly true in our adult care feminine care and baby wipes businesses.
Our global health care medical device business also achieved solid volume growth in the quarter and K-C International delivered outstanding results led by our teams in China South Korea and Latin America.
Turning to revenue realization.
We delivered 3 points of favorable net selling price in the third quarter.
That's up nicely from the 1% benefit we realized in the first half of this year.
Our progress in the third quarter was highlighted by success in K-C International K-C Professional and in our North American Consumer Tissue business.
So overall our pricing initiatives are on track with our expectations for the year.
In terms of cost reduction in addition to the FORCE savings that Mark already mentioned we continue to make good progress controlling our overhead spending.
Through the first 9 months our total between-the-lines spending is up 2% while our sales are up 7%.
So we're on track to achieve our target to gross spending slower than sales this year in this category.
Let me give you now a brief update on our market positions which remain solid overall.
In the U.S.
our third quarter market shares were ahead of or even with the year-ago period in about half of our consumer businesses.
On a year-to-date basis we can make the same statement for 6 of 8 of our consumer businesses.
Third quarter private label market shares were stable overall versus last year although they did pick up modestly from second quarter levels in some categories.
And while we believe this reflects the generally cautious consumer and in some cases we've had branded price increases that occurred ahead of private label.
Outside the U.S.
we continue to grow ahead of category rates in a number of markets in K-C International including China and Latin America.
In Europe our market shares are flat to down slightly as the environment worsened modestly there over the last 3 months.
Before moving to the outlook let me touch on a few of the innovations we launched in the third quarter.
Our Huggies Little Movers Slip-On Diapers are off to a solid start in North America.
Our distribution levels continue to build and slip-on achieved 4 points of market share in the most recent 4-week time period.
This innovation is also performing well in a number of markets in K-C International.
Our new Poise Hourglass Shape Pads are also performing well and they achieved 3 points of market share in the quarter in the light end of the U.S.
Adult Care category.
And we're excited about the prospects for Kleenex Cool Touch facial tissue which started shipping toward the end of the quarter.
Now let me turn to the outlook.
We expect our momentum with revenue realization and targeted growth initiatives to continue led by K-C International while continue to operate financial discipline focusing on cost savings control of overhead spending and cash generation.
Key changes to our full year planning assumptions are included in this morning's news release but here are the highlights.
In terms of sales we've taken our volume growth assumption to the low end of our 1% to 2% target range.
This reflects somewhat lower expectations for portions of the develop markets particularly in the North American infant and child care categories.
In addition as a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar we expect less benefit from changes in currency rates in our previous plan.
The weaker Mexican peso has also caused us to lower our expectations from our equity income from K-C to Mexico.
On the other hand because commodity costs have moderated in some from the peak levels that we experienced this summer we now expect about $100 million less cost inflation in 2011 than we previously estimated.
So putting it altogether we're now targeting our 2011 adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $4.80 to $4.90 per share and that's essentially consistent with our previous guidance in July which was that earnings were more likely to be in the lower half of our target range of $4.80 to $5.05 per share.
So to summarize despite the challenging near-term environment our businesses continue to be fundamentally strong.
We continue to deploy our strategies for the long-term success of Kimberly-Clark.
And while we're not on track with all of our goals this year we are convinced that our Global Business Plan will improve shareholder value.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and we'll now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about -- I guess just be around demand environment I mean with some of the weakness you saw in the quarter in developed markets more weighted towards inventory destocking that might have played out or are you seeing changes in overall consumption pattern? Well I wouldn't say consumption pattern we say we still see derive from the birth rates for the diaper and training pant category is where we saw the biggest category decline relative to our expectations.
And so it's partly the birthrate's been down for 3 years.
That's starting to flow into the child care category.
As you've got 3 years of low birth rate now in toilet training.
So that one probably had the biggest volume hit relative to expectations.
And a little bit of inventory destocking was a part of it.
And I think that's just customers trying to run their working capital tight as you'd expect in this environment.
Research Division</strong> And can you talk a little bit about the improvement you saw in the U.S.
paper towels? Is that basically back where you think it should be or is there incremental recovery yet to come? Well I think we're executing better.
We've got some of distribution back and both Viva and Scott towels had decent volume growth there.
So I think we're overall happy with the progress we're seeing and bouncing back from what were kind of historic low share periods for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on inflation your rising cost of these went out sequentially or would you expect to see some relief in the fourth quarter or are they still increasing? No.
We think they peaked in the early third quarter so we'd expect to see a little bit of benefit in the fourth quarter.
But I will say that they are stickier coming down it seems than you would expect given how oil has performed.
And Gail this is Paul.
I would just add even though they are coming down sequentially they still will be up year-on-year in the fourth quarter.
The next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
One you started to answer the question I think last but it was struck by how volumes were really quite quite tough [ph] actually in the adult markets.
And of course there are some birthrate issues and sheet reduction inventory reduction et cetera.
But there is does seem to be this intentional or not I don't know but a little bit more a subdued view of demand in the release.
And I'm just trying to get a sense from you about are you seeing that flatten get worse? See things getting a little bit better? And I ask [ph]  that question or I asked that question also in the context of you raising prices rather significantly if there's any risk to some of those price increases as you go forward given the volume response? Well I guess a couple of things.
We took the overall volume number in our guidance down to the low end of the range so we said we were 1 to 2.
It's going to be closer to 1 for the year which is really where we think it's playing out.
I'd say the de-sheeting effect we expected that's -- our shares are fine in bath tissue which is where most of the de-sheeting occurred and trends in facial tissue are positive there.
So that one is playing out about as we would've expected.
I'd say the diaper training pant category is one that just continues to be a little softer.
Our insight is that we're not seeing it in terms of diaper usage per day.
It's really -- it's just in some cases moms delaying toilet training or even training out of diapers is hurting the child care category the low birthrate continues to be lower than was forecast early in the year.
And so you're just not having as many new moms enter the category.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess one of the second part of the question in terms of are you still comfortable with taking the pricing you're taking you're planning to take have taken given the volume response that you've seen? Well in the diaper category there really hasn't been any pricing in the category.
In fact pricing was negative in the quarter.
So I would say the weakness in the category is not related to price change.
In the Consumer Tissue the pricing is beginning to be put in place in the marketplace and I think the volume response is about what you'd expect so.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But in PC you plan to take pricing it gets pushed off now it's supposed to be October is that happening? Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> It is happening? A lot of this is by account.
So the account changes will start to roll  to the shelf in the fourth quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So maybe more volume hit on that business or not? Well I think that potentially you'll see some volume softness just because customers typically order a consistent number of cases and if there's -- with an account change you're going to have fewer diapers per case.
So you typically have little bit of an inventory impact when the account change goes into the marketplace.
The category tends to be a little softer than we're expecting and that's factored into our adjusted guidance.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question that's sort of a recurring theme zeroing in on Europe and Consumer Tissue specifically can you talk a little bit about that business and how it strategically fits in your portfolio at this point? Yes I mean yes it's -- we've got leading brand shares in Europe in bath tissue.
We've got a strong facial tissue business in Europe as well.
It's got margins that are probably a little below the segment average but consistently profitable.
And the challenge in Europe has been the growth in private label and actually encouragingly our shares were relatively stable this quarter and private label was stable as well.
I think the challenge has been getting any real price recovery there with the run-up in fiber costs has not been easy.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could take a longer-term view on what this decline in birthrates means in the Western countries as you look at to 2012 through 2015.
How much do you know about the volume impact just from pure demographics? And I guess there's a flip side of it in countries like throughout Latin America or Asia.
How much do you know again about the tailwind from birthrates? Yes.
I'd say a couple of things.
If you look at a global trend birthrates have been coming down for a while.
I mean Europe is probably been the lowest.
But even in China with the golden baby policies there you have a fairly low birthrate in Korea.
Probably it would be that some of the highest birthrates in the world would tend to be in Africa and in parts of Latin America.
And so obviously our business in Latin America has benefited from that.
In the U.S.
we'd say the things that typically are going to drive birthrate are household formation employment those kinds of things.
And obviously with a weaker economy in the near term I'd say the category is probably going to be a little softer in 2012 than our prior long-range forecast would've indicated.
Research Division</strong> And are there ways to counter that? I mean how much innovation are you looking at that can target that? Does it come with lower price product? Does it come with breakthrough product? How are you thinking about that declining global rate? Well yes I mean absolutely as you go into emerging markets you're still seeing used category penetration.
And so you saw that in our K-C International growth this year.
So for example where we're today selling diapers but we don't have a very well-developed wipes [ph] business we don't have a very well-developed Little Swimmers business we still got opportunities to launch diaper pants or training pants to move the category up mix.
Those are all things that we're looking at as those consumer incomes develop that they want the best for their baby and they'll buy a broader range of those products.
Those categories are more fully penetrated in North America.
So it's looking for whether there are other things that we can do like launch Huggies Slip-On Diapers that we did in the third quarter to again move Mom to a better mix and a better performing product.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So as you think about -- I think you said China Latin America and Korea were the highlights internationally is this correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And what happened in Mexico though that seems a little different from the rest of Lat Am? Mexico had mid-single-digit volume growth stable shares.
Really they got hit more with commodity costs and some foreign exchange issues as their U.S.
dollar payables they suffered a loss on that as the peso devalued at the end of the quarter.
But their fundamental volumes in shares are solid in Mexico.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the growth in KCI.
So I mean it looked like a good chunk of that was on the pricing side.
I mean -- and regards to the Personal Care business the pricing that you took how much of that was for commodity? How much for currency? And just with some of the major currencies such as the peso and the real obviously starting to turn.
Just your comfort level as you go into 2012 that that pricing is kind of hold.
Yes.
I mean I think each of our countries has a strategy to maximize their local currency net income.
So they're looking at their business from the perspective of a local currency point of view.
So if their commodity costs and local currency terms are going up they're going to look at pricing to pass that through.
They're not necessarily trying to deliver a dollar result that they take pricing because of translation.
So as you think about it really most of the pricing was result of commodity input going up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's good.
And then just thinking about gross margin I guess it's a two-part question one obviously it's good to see the inflation especially in the pulp side coming down.
I guess the first question is as you exit the year do you expect to see any gross margins to be kind of flat? I mean obviously I think the curtailment -- production curtailment had a bigger impact in the third quarter that kind of weighed down on your prior guidance.
But I guess the first part is as you look for a nice modest increase in gross margins exiting the year.
And then secondly when you think about 2012 it kind of has the same dynamics as 2009 where FX was kind of turned the other way commodities are improving pension it's going to be a little bit of a headwind and you have some good cost savings.
The magnitude that you saw back in '09 was tremendous but of course pulp was down 20%-plus year-over-year.
And just I guess I was wondering if you kind of give a little bit of color about 2012 and how you see just the gross margin progression going fourth quarter and maybe into next year.
Good questions.
If you think about the sequential changes in gross margin in the fourth quarter pricing should be a positive because we'll get more pricing flowing through from our North America baby Child Care businesses.
Commodities should be a positive sequentially.
Still the pressure year-on-year in many areas.
Currency will be a drag because you'll have some exchange rates that have gone the wrong direction.
And downtime sequentially should be similar to slightly positive.
So I think that one we'll have to see where the volumes actually come out.
So on balance I'd say should be more positive than the negatives moving from third quarter to fourth quarter.
As we look at 2012 and we're still -- there's a lot of moving parts so it seems like more than ever looking at what's the trade-off of currency headwinds versus commodity tailwinds and how that's  going to play out.
But we'll give you more color in January but our goal is to deliver a 2012 plan that achieves our Global Business Plan goals and has the kind of top line and operating improvement and earnings per share improvement that we're looking for.
LLC Research Division</strong> But directionally am I on the right path in terms of that you should see gross margins start to sequentially improve in 2012? I'm not talking about -- I mean you just point it yes you're right I think it's a little premature to talk about the...
Yes.
I don't think it would be the '09 kind of a windfall though I think.
But yes directionally it should improve.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question I'm just wondering on -- just on FORCE.
I'm just thinking about that you're saying it's going to be shy of the 300 to 350.
I mean so does that mean it's not going to -- it's going to be below 300 or it's going to be the low end? And I guess the question is last quarter you guys raised it so what kind of delayed some of those savings that you thought you would've gotten this year? Or is this just kind of plan to kind of have more in store for next year and just not kind of rush it? No.
I mean it's not like FORCE is a bank account that we can take it out as easily.
But I think it really has more to do with there's a little bit more downtime than we thought.
When you're not running your process as full you can't push as many cost savings through that pipe that go along with it.
So that's probably the biggest single effect.
And so I think we got $195 million in the bank through 3 quarters so we'd need an all-time record fourth quarter to get to the low end of the range.
So there's a risk that we'll be below the low end of the range.
But we'd certainly expect us to keep our foot on the gas of delivering as many cost savings because when we deliver those usually you've got benefits that spill on the 2012 as well.
So our team is focused on delivering as much as they can this year.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So the FX translation for next year for 2012 even Q4 can you just talk about what you expect the impact to be on the bottom line relative to the top line right obviously you  guys have transaction dragging some markets but can you just talk about what that effect might be right? If you see a couple of points on the top line what would the bottom line coincident effect be? Yes I mean it's from a translation standpoint it's fairly linear.
So you'll see that same kind of a drag on the bottom line.
Transactions were partially hedged.
We usually hedge about half of our transaction exposure so there's more of a lag before that flows through earnings.
Research Division</strong> So you would but you would expect the bottom line impact to be bigger than the top line impact right? When you put it all together not just translation translation in general [ph].
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And any order of magnitude that you can talk about? And I know we've seen in the past it's been pretty variable right? Is there any kind of a relationship that you guys can talk to? No.
I mean it's such a complicated question because it really depends on where the exchange rate happens.
And you're seeing such wild swings in the last 4 weeks of the quarter.
I think we'll give you a better outlook when we get to 2012.
Typically the big currencies for us the euro is important the Mexican peso is important the A dollar is important the Korean won is important the Brazilian real is becoming increasingly important.
Most of those have weakened at least mid-single digits to double digits in the last 4 weeks.
And we'll see what happens between now and the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on marketing research general administrative right.
I mean I know you guys have talked about cutting costs out of there and it's been a little bit volatile the last couple of years as a percentage of sales.
But can you just talk a little bit about what you think that relationship should be like going forward or what the year-on-year change can be as you think about next year? Are we going to see leverage to the SG&amp;A line essentially as you move into 2012? Yes I think as you look at how we think about it we want to be able to invest more in strategic marketing to fund innovation.
And so you're going to see that part of it with upward pressure and us wanting to invest more or where we can to go faster and deliver more growth to the market.
In our KCP and Health Care business the selling line is their advertising promotion lever so we're going to be investing more sellers and driving our safety business driving our medical device business.
Our G&amp;A line is where we're trying to get efficiency and so are trying to run that and grow that at a slower rate than sales.
So if you looked at just SG&amp;A and not include strategic marketing our goal would be for that overall to grow a little slower than sales.
But you would have more upward pressure on sales than downward pressure on G&amp;A if that makes sense.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Kimberly-Clark.
Research Division</strong> Just on a Personal Care margin front can you just kind of give us again what's driving that? I mean how much of it is a slowdown in the training pants business which is much higher margin? And how much of that is just like the geographic business mix where some of the lower margin markets are growing faster? No.
I'd say it's a couple of things.
I mean a we're still seeing higher commodity cost so Personal Care took more about of the brunt of inflation this quarter as really pulp was actually slightly positive for the family care segment and all of the fiber cost increase in the quarter fell in K-C Professional which is really secondary fiber.
And so Personal Care had the brunt of the inflation this quarter and really had no positive price to speak of in the develop markets.
We got some in the emerging markets but not as much in the develop markets.
And then the weaker volume in North American Diapers and Training Pants was obviously higher than segment average.
So that was a drag on the margins as well in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it sounds like one is kind of temporary and one is just contingent on what volume growth does is that fair? Yes I mean I think we'll start to get price in the fourth quarter so that will help.
You get a little bit of commodity improvement sequentially in the fourth quarter which will help.
And then obviously you need to look for stronger volume growth in those categories over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then how correlated are FORCE savings to commodity costs? I mean that like when commodities are higher is FORCE easier to generate than when commodities are rolling over? I'd say we look at our procurement team for example looks at savings in 4 buckets.
They look at year-on-year cost savings.
They look at cost avoidance where everyone else in the industry got an increase and we didn't.
They look at working capital savings and then savings on capital spending.
And so in rising price environments you tend to find more cost avoidance and a little bit less year-on-year.
And so in falling price environments or neutral price environments you tend to find more year-on-year cost savings but I think that's at the margin you're still looking for lots of year-on-year cost savings from that team.
I think for us for this year we got more FORCE out of our lean activity where we're driving waste and efficiency and productivity growth.
And that's been a positive for us as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one if I could.
You said there was some trade de-stocking on the Personal Care side.
It's kind of unusual to see de-stocking ahead of price increase.
So can you just give us a little bit more color on what's going on there? Yes the price increase is via account I think you're just finding at the end of every month retailers are managing their balance sheet.
Everybody's got working capital objectives just like we do and you are seeing a little tighter working capital phenomena from a couple of key retailers and we saw that more pronounced this quarter than we've seen in a while.
Research Division</strong> Is that a category thing or is it a brand thing? I think we saw it more in Personal Care this particular quarter than we did in tissue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it the Personal Care category or is it Huggies versus Pampers? I mean what -- it wasn't just related [ph] to Kimberly? No no.
It was the category.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question.
Obviously you said this isn't 2009 and we're not looking at the type of sequential falloff in commodity costs that we saw back then.
But there's always a question of okay when does the sequential fall off and commodities turn into sort risk to pricing? And so can you talk a little bit about that conceptually in terms of the rationale behavior and the category how you see the competitors thinking about things.
And what -- where is it get to the point where we should say okay the sequential fall off could lead to higher levels of discounting in terms of people looking to give some of that back? Good questions.
If you kind of go back 6 months which is about where we were when we made a lot of the pricing announcements.
Commodities have run up quite a ways past where we were then.
And so I think as we would look at it we'd say yes commodities have come back a little bit but they're still at higher levels than we were -- than they were when we announced the price increases.
So we would say the price increases in the marketplace that we've announced are still appropriate and justified by the commodity input cost.
We'll still have year-on-year cost increases in the fourth quarter for example.
And we'd play that through.
So I assume our other competitors in the marketplace are seeing the same things and so at this point we'll see how it plays out in the marketplace and whether private label moves and all those kind of things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like we almost probably need to look at this in terms of the rationality of pricing not just on sort of a sequential or even a year-over-year basis but sort of more like a peak to trough.
Yes that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> At the level is that a right way to look at it? Yes.
But I think at this point based on what we see it's hard to imagine commodities falling enough that you'd have an impact on market pricing but it's -- there's a pretty volatile world we live in some days.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with the Vertical Research Partners.
First question is on the pension situation.
Could you just let us know you're upping the amount you're putting into it.
How much of the $680 million to $760 million have you done through the 9 months? And is there should we expect the share -- it looks like you're not going to buy back stock in the fourth quarter.
Would you have an early look as to how you think about that next year? Yes what we -- what our thinking on that and then maybe Mark can add a little color too is that the big issue on the pension plan for us is more as you look at what's happened to the discount rate.
We made actually good progress this year we put a little over $400 million in the plans already.
We've actually had better than our then benchmark performance.
But when you compare that to what's happened to the liability because of the drop in long-term interest rates we basically gone backwards on our funded status.
And so we've got some internal goals that we want to hit in terms of funded status.
And so we made the call that we would go ahead and accelerate some of our 2012 pension contribution into this year and we'll probably then do a little bit heavier than normal stock buyback next year and kind of flip-flop those.
But Mark I don't know if you want to add anything to that? Yes I think directionally that's right.
We knew coming into this year we're going to be heavier on share purchases maybe than we have typically done.
We're going to be more front-end loaded.
We've accomplished that.
We're generating plenty of cash flow and which gives us some options.
And just given where pension-funded status was relative to our target decided to shift that a little bit.
You should think about it as an acceleration of next year's and that frees up cash to buy back shares in 2012.
Well one of the downsides of low interest rates is that everybody's pension plans sprung a leak.
So it's got to be filled up with more cash.
Got you.
And let's say rates stay roughly where they are and your assets stay where they are now in the plans do you think I know last year you ended the year about $1.1 billion in your plans underfunded.
Would you be in that neighborhood with this or might you improve on that? And secondly I know in 2010 your pension expense I'm not sure what it's been this year was it was $133 million looking at your K did you see a big change from '11 to '12 given that you're putting this funding in? Yes.
I mean I would guess that when putting this additional funding in our funded status would improve slightly on the plan.
It's about think of it as $260 million relative to that 1.1 Chip that's about 25% of our global GAAP.
So we would -- while our funded status has fallen off this will top that up and then some.
And then as you -- as one of the things that we did by freezing our DB Plan we're less sensitive now to volatility in our pension expense going forward because we'll be amortizing any actuarial gains and losses over the remaining physical life of employees not their service life.
So there's some -- we'll see less volatility next year.
We'll give you more color on what our pension expense assumptions are in 2012.
But I don't think it's going to be as big a swing as you might have seen in prior years.
Okay.
And then a couple of small items.
One is it looks like you talked about your ad spend going up this quarter.
Can you just give us a flavor as to will this level sort of be maintained? And then on a different note if you just would talk a little bit about the other income line $17 million positive it's certainly bigger than normal.
Is that something that's new? Or was it sort of a onetime just puts and takes happen to end up there and it should go back more or less to 0 in the future? Yes.
On the ad spend I mean we were up a little bit year-over-year but as a percent of sales we're not we're down.
So our expectation is over long term I think you'd still want to see us growing that line a little faster than sales growth.
And so that's still an opportunity area for us as you look at 2012 and longer forecasting we'd tend to want to invest more there if we could.
So I'd say yes that one's got more upward pressure.
On the other income  expense we had currencies the small currency transaction gains this time versus losses last year.
And then we had a sale of a small asset in South America that had a gain on it that was the other factor but that would not be something that you'd repeat.
And then lastly the FORCE issue this year being a  challenge it looks like you picked up a bit  at least in the third quarter from the first half pace [ph].
But would you say that's mostly due to the volume challenges and you can't run as well or was it that you just didn't you don't feel you'll be able to tackle all the programs you might have had early in the year? No.
I think it's more of the former.
But as you take curtailment and you're not running as -- running your process as much you don't get the benefits of the cost savings that were inherent in the cost savings program.
So I think our teams are aggressively looking at delivering another very solid year from a FORCE standpoint but because of the weaker volume we're not going to get quite as much through the pipe as we would've thought.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just on Consumer Tissue I know you mentioned a couple of times that the de-sheeting you would expect the volume decline seemed sort of in line.
So when you look from here though can you just remind me how long the lag is to where kind of volume or just normal consumption catches up with that kind of de-sheeting activity? I mean I think that until you annualize the de-sheeting activity you'll have a volume drag from de-sheeting relative to your comps.
So we look at dollars share and would say on a dollar share basis we're essentially on track with where we thought we'd be.
We're probably watching more competitive promotion pricing across multiple outlets and it's a little choppy right now.
Some places it's moved up some places it hasn't.
So that's probably the biggest thing we're watching in the marketplace right now.
Research Division</strong> I guess the 4 points of pricing with a 6-point volume drag does actually seem a lot more severe in terms of the volume impact than was the case at any time in the last 6 7 years when you price.
So should pricing accelerate from here and the volume -- is your expectation of volume remains kind of similarly challenged and pricing accelerates? Or does it in fact feel like the elasticity is worse than it was this time around 3 years ago? I think in some cases the de-sheeting was a little bigger than maybe we've done in prior years because in part because of some of the commodity cost run-up.
But I think we've got most of the price in the marketplace as we speak on Consumer Tissue They're may be a little bit more that comes internationally but there's not going to be anymore plans at this point in time in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you'll maybe the missing piece of the puzzle then is adding in the margin improvement that it's not just about the top line it's the profitability of every roll sold is that much better right now? That's right.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the inventory -- actually sorry on curtailment is there a way for you guys to sort of manage curtailment better.
I mean with better forecasting because it doesn't sound like [indiscernible] it's tissue demand in Europe but it's North America birthrate challenges continue should that really be much of a surprise at this point that we're still looking at curtailment being a 50-basis point drag  in a given quarter? It just feels like to me it's maybe something where you should be adjusting your production well in advance than needing to make this kind of adjustment? Yes I guess I'll interpret it we're more disciplined about hitting target inventory levels and not running up inventories.
Inventory historically is the slack variable and if you miss your sales forecast you just ran your inventory up.
We're more disciplined now about taking the downtime in the quarter as you realize you're off track from a sales forecast you shut the process and don 't build the inventory.
And so as a result you're seeing more real-time impact from curtailment than maybe we would've seen several years ago.
And I think you're seeing that throughout the extended supply chain.
I think you're seeing retailers adjust inventory levels quicker if they're not seeing foot traffic than they would.
And so the reality is in most cases you own the asset at this point.
So you can't -- if you can't do anything else other than curtail it if you've got a demand shortfall.
Research Division</strong> But is there room or as you look over the next 12 to 24 months to be more anticipatory in terms of demand levels in child care and infant care in North America? So I mean we haven't added a diaper machine or a training pant in North America in a long time so we have kind of what we have.
And we think we will need it as we drive innovation and continue to grow the business.
Those would probably have a bigger impact on us as we move internationally and have had more productivity growth we've been able to actually sequence our capital better and probably do a better job of planning our international production capacity to a larger extent than we've maybe done previously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because the margins in Personal Care I know you've walked through the Personal Care feeling the brunt of the cost inflation this quarter and the timing on pricing.
But is the margin performance in that business this year has been pretty notable right? And going back to the first quarter you guys talked about some onetime items in the quarter in addition to lack of price in commodity cost inflation and expecting to get better as the year progressed so is there anything else? It feels a little bit like something's missing to be looking at 16.5% margins at a business that typically run 20% to 21%.
It just had a very sudden change in profitability profile in the last 9 months.
Yes I mean there's no question.
When you say notable we've noticed that as well.
And so no one's satisfied with where the Personal Care margins are.
So we are going to get more price in North America in the fourth quarter that will help.
We should see some sequential commodity improvement that will help.
And in the meantime we're going to keep the innovation coming to continue to drive the business forward.
So we've had good success in lots of areas like Adult Care Feminine Care that are positives but we got to show it with growth and margin over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The slip-on diaper I'm guessing do we -- how far does that need to go in terms of share for it to be a mix positive strong enough to offset some of the -- sorry the negative mix dynamics from Child Care? Because Child Care is such a big business that's probably going to win for a while.
Yes.
I know I think that the drag on Child Care category is going to be a bigger impact than slip-on can overcome that's for sure.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
I think that the question probably would be better for Mark.
It has to do with the gross margin progression that you are guiding to for the fourth quarter versus the lack of improvement in gross margin in the third quarter.
What I see is that we didn't see a sequential improvement in the third quarter in a espy [ph] that commodities improved right? You have 150 pressure versus 180 in the last quarter.
You have 3 points of pricing in the third quarter versus 1 point of pricing in the second quarter and you have $90 million in FORCE savings in the third quarter versus $50 million in the second quarter.
So all of these 3 items should add up to margin progression to see some improvement in gross margin and yet something held back this improvement.
So could you tell us what held back the gross margin progression in the third quarter that is going to be changing in the fourth quarter so we will see these items benefiting the gross margin line? Yes I mean I'll start and I'll let Mark give you kind of the color commentary.
If you look at sequentially you'd say okay pricing is going to be better in fourth quarter versus third quarter.
Commodity costs could be a little bit better fourth  quarter versus third quarter.
Still higher than last year but should be sequentially better.
Currency will be a drag and so that will partially offset those.
And then downtime at this point our guidance would say that it should be slightly positive.
So not as negative as third quarter.
And then part that was last year's fourth quarter had a bigger drag from downtime.
So we'll be lapping that from a comp standpoint.
But Mark if you want to give them any other color to that.
Yes.
Javier I think third quarter volumes were lighter than we expected.
Other than that Tom's review of the bidding is about right.
We want better pricing slightly better commodities currency will go the other way downtime will be about the same.
So just to clarify right we had all those improvements already in the third quarter relative to the second quarter.
So basically we didn't see the margin improvement.
So my understanding then is that the swing factor fought off to see the margin improvement that you're guiding to is at volume either curtailment or whatever have you is going to be better than it was in the third quarter.
That is going to make the difference for us to see the sequential improvement that you are guiding to.
Yes.
I guess I said Javier in some cases commodity costs peaked in the third quarter.
So for example secondary fiber was at its peak in the third quarter and the Personal Care pricing and baby child care is going to come in the fourth quarter so we'll have more price in the fourth quarter than the third from some of those businesses.
So I do think that the story for the fourth quarter is a little different than the third quarter.
Yes but if you -- I mean just not to beat this horse to death but you have $30 million lower commodities you have around $100 million better in revenues because of pricing and you have $40 million better in FORCE savings in the third quarter and yet gross margins were similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
So the question is what is holding back the improvement in the third quarter relative to the second quarter that is going to change in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter? I think Javier we've tried to explain the key moving pieces both in the news release and the remarks.
And Tom's color about the fourth quarter of the key changes sequentially are just what he said which is commodity costs coming down somewhat a bit more pricing and a fair amount of those 2 things are offset by currency.
So we do believe that sequentially that our gross margins will pick up from third quarter levels and we'll come back to you at the end of the year and tell you how we did.
And of the $100 million lower raw material costs that you are forecasting for 2011 how much of it was already accretive in this fourth -- in the third quarter? And if you can tell us what is what kind of pulp prices are you assuming for the Q4? And that will be my last question.
Yes.
Most of the $100 million change in inflation will come in the fourth quarter and in terms of pulp pricing for the fourth quarter we're assuming between $9.35 and $9.50 for northern softwood.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I just have a few questions.
Given the downtime and the curtailment you've taken and slowing birthrates almost worldwide what is your capacity utilization in diapers and training pants? And do you think that your plans and your production lines are in the right location as you look 3 to 5 years out for where growth is slowing and for where it's really picking up? As you saw in the quarter from K-C International we still got a huge growth story.
So you got a great category penetration opportunity in the International markets that's far outweighing the impact of a slow birthrate.
And so it's taking a mom from using 1 diaper per day to using 5 diapers a day as they would in developed markets is a big big deal.
And so we're still adding capacity in for both diapers and pants as well as fem care as well as adult care in our international markets consistently.
And so that trend will play out for a number of years to come.
In North America it's -- I'd say we're -- we've got some additional capacity but we've also got a pretty aggressive innovation agenda.
And so I think we've got some slight additional capacity but nothing that I would say that I'm particularly worried about at this point in time.
Okay.
What's the outlook for the Santa Diaper and how would you compare it to the blue jean diaper? Well I think fashion is something we continue to believe is a big idea.
Being first being innovative being different being relevant is key.
So we're excited about it and we'll see what Mom feels about it when it gets to the marketplace.
The next question comes from Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
I just wanted to follow up on Lauren's questions about day production curtailment and the first thing I wanted to know is how much of it is a function of your own forecasting versus say retailer actions? Well they're sort of related so we can certainly do a better job of forecasting and so that's part of it.
But it's also sometimes where a retailer decides they're going to bring inventories down at the end of the quarter.
You can only react to that.
So yes you wish you knew about it earlier.
You could have planned better you would have forecasted better.
But I think that's a challenge for our teams is that we can do a better job of forecasting the business so that we can run our supply chain as efficiently with as low inventory as possible.
I think the good news is we've got better capabilities to do that than we ever had before.
And what you're seeing as inventories continue to cross the enterprise to come down and faster reaction time on our part when we do miss a demand plan.
Okay.
And then also are the curtailments meaningful beyond sort of the baby Personal Care category? Are there any other categories that are showing signs of the need for production cuts? Yes it was predominately concentrated in Personal Care and Consumer Tissue.
Basically health care and K-C Professional there wasn't much curtailment in the quarter.
And so we're a little light on Scott tissue relative to expectations and took some time out of the schedule from that standpoint.
But nothing out of the ordinary from how we'd run it quarter-to-quarter.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about how we should be thinking about marketing investment in CT in particular.
It looks like I see in this quarter is down actually we've even on this call have had debates about the ROI on marketing investments in Consumer Tissue specifically have your thought process changed at all about that the ROI your getting by marketing spend there in this environment or even broader longer-term? Well I mean I think we continue to get better at measuring ROI and allocating spend.
And I'd tell you actually some of our highest ROI events in the company have been in Kleenex facial tissue.
So we measure it we look at it across the portfolio and look to see what's the right vehicle.
We're doing a better job of being creative and channel agnostic in terms of how we bring those to market.
But we'd say particularly for the premium end of the category things that we've done with the Mike Rowe campaign on Viva has responded positively to the sales growth you've seen in our towel business.
Our Kleenex facial tissue activities that we've had going have had a high return and COTTONELLE is a pretty high margin category so there's some responsiveness there.
So we do track it and make intelligent investment decisions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But we should expect on CT particularly marketing spending to continue to go up as a percent of sales? I would say yes.
But we'd look probably for more opportunities to drive adult care drive fem care drive baby child care around the world.
If you look at the big picture Consumer Tissue is probably going to be more a North American story.
I think the other markets around the world is going to be a little bit spottier in terms of where those opportunities are.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So given that though and the kind of beneficial ROI you're getting shouldn't we be concerned that it is down this quarter? I think it's more a function of what your cycle of investment is and so the fact that we launched Cool Touch at the end of the quarter you're going to see a little heavier push on that in the fourth quarter.
As we were going through a pricing cycle you tend to wind up not as much on promotion with some retailers until you get your new prices established and so you often want to couple strategic investment with trade execution.
If you're not going to get the trade execution you'd pull back a little bit.
So I wouldn't read too much into it it's more a function of timing of innovation than anything else.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Just a quick follow-up as you all have grown overseas I just wanted to get an update on your sort of exposure to 2 raw materials one would be waste paper and the other one the pulp.
The last I had was like $2.5 million for pulp and $900 000 for waste paper annually.
I think the pulp number is pretty close.
The waste paper number is more like $1.2 million so.
Basically all you're buying would be kind of the pulp substitute-type grades the bleached kind of collections.
Yes.
I mean you're looking for a higher-quality wastepaper if that's not an oxymoron.
But kind of an office waste kind of a grade as opposed to the really cheap stuff.
Got you.
And then just another quick one.
On the charge in the fourth quarter -- sorry the third quarter for the pulp and tissue I would assume about $80 million of it was in depreciation.
I don't know if you gave that somewhere but is that about right? I don't know that we gave that level of detail but the team's looking through that.
It's basically the things tracking with our plan there.
They're giving me smiley faces so it sounds like you're in the ballpark with the $80 million so.
At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
All right thanks David.
We appreciate the questions.
And we'll just finish with a closing comment from Tom.
Well once again we're tracking executing our Global Business Plan.
We're pleased with the progress we made in the quarter but not satisfied and we appreciate your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce  today's first speaker Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our year-end earnings conference call.
Here with me today in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of our fourth quarter results followed by an update on pulp and tissue restructuring.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our full year results and our 2012 outlook.
We'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor Section of our website.
This morning's presentation also includes an appendix with the details of our 2012 planning assumptions.
Before we begin let me remind you we'll be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of forward-looking statements.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to adjusted results and outlook both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
For further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see today's news release and additional information on our website.
With that I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thank you Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 3% highlighted by 7% growth in K-C International.
Second we generated solid improvements in both adjusted gross and operating margins.
And third we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $1.28.
That's a 7% increase compared to the prior year.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales increased 2% to $5.2 billion.
Organic sales rose 3% driven by higher net selling prices of 2% and increased sales volumes of 1%.
On the other hand lost sales in conjunction with the divestiture combined with the impact of our pulp and tissue restructuring reduced sales by 1%.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Adjusted gross margin was 32.6%.
That's up 20 basis points year-on-year.
The improvement was driven by higher selling prices and $70 million of FORCE cost savings.
These items more than offset cost inflation of $55 million and the negative impact of lower production volumes.
Fourth quarter adjusted operating profit rose 9% and adjusted operating margin was 14.7%.
That's up 90 basis points compared to the prior year.
In addition to the gross margin improvement adjusted operating margin benefited from flat between-the-line spending and higher other income.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.28.
That compares with $1.20 last year.
The improvement came despite a higher effective tax rate and lower net income from equity companies.
So for the year adjusted earnings per share were $4.80 at the low end of our previous guidance range of $4.80 to $4.90 a share.
Cash provided by operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $517 million.
That compares to $948 million in the prior year.
The decline was driven by a significant improvement in working capital last year that didn't repeat in 2011 along with higher pension contributions.
Fourth quarter 2011 primary working capital levels were solid overall although receivables did increase somewhat including some impact from timing of collections.
For the full year our cash conversion cycle improved 3 days to a record low of 47 days and I expect us to continue to show improvement in 2012.
In addition we anticipate modest pension contributions this year which should help drive a substantial increase in operating cash flow in 2012.
Consistent with our previous guidance we did not repurchase any common stock during the quarter.
For the year we repurchased 19 million shares at a cost of $1.24 billion.
Including dividends we returned approximately $2.3 billion of cash to shareholders during 2011.
We'll continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways heading into 2012.
We plan to invest $1 billion to $1.1 billion of capital spending to grow our businesses and we expect to increase our dividend at a mid-single digit rate which will be our 40th consecutive annual increase.
We also expect to repurchase $900 million to $1.1 billion worth of our shares this year.
Together our plans for dividends and share purchases will total at least $2 billion of cash returned to shareholders in 2012.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 3% with volumes up 2% and net selling prices advancing 1%.
K-C International had another great quarter with 11% organic growth led by Latin America China South Korea and Vietnam.
In North America organic sales fell 5% mostly due to lower volumes.
We continued to generate solid volume growth in Adult Care.
On the other hand volumes were down in infant and child care including the impacts of category declines competitive activity and some consumer trade-down in the Child Care category.
Personal Care operating margins of 15.4% remained well below prior year.
The decline was driven by input cost inflation higher between-the-line spending and increased promotion spending in North American diapers.
We clearly aren't satisfied with margins at these levels and we expect to bring more of the 2011 U.S.
diaper price increase to the bottom line in 2012 which should help improve overall margin performance.
Now turning to Consumer Tissue.
Organic sales were up 1%.
Net selling prices rose 3%.
Product mix was favorable by 1 point while organic volumes fell 3%.
Consumer Tissue operating margins improved to 14.3%.
That's our best performance in over 2 years.
That was driven by selling price increases cost savings input cost deflation and lower between-the-line spending.
Margins were up in every region around the world and I'm encouraged by the improved profitability that our tissue teams delivered in 2011 and expect to see further progress in 2012.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other.
Organic sales were up about 3%.
The increase was driven by improved volumes and higher net selling prices.
Volumes were up low-single digits in each region despite market demand continuing to be relatively sluggish.
Operating margins of 15.5% were up 150 basis points versus last year.
It was driven by benefits from sales growth and cost savings.
Lastly Health Care organic sales were up 9%.
That included volume growth of 7% and higher net selling prices of 2%.
Medical supply volumes rose double digits led by growth in exam gloves and surgical products.
In addition our North American medical device business increased volumes at the mid-single digits.
Operating margins of 14.3% were up considerably from last year driven by significant litigation-related expenses 1 year ago that were connected with our I-Flow acquisition along with benefits from sales growth and cost savings.
So that wraps up the financial review of the quarter.
But before I turn it over to Tom I wanted to provide an update on our pulp and tissue restructuring actions.
Overall we made significant progress in 2011 and we're on track or ahead of all major elements of our plan.
Actions are underway or complete at all but one of the facilities that will be impacted by last year's announcement.
In the fourth quarter we closed our pulp mill in Australia.
We sold 2 K-C Professional facilities in Spain.
We announced the closure of our pulp mill in Everett Washington.
Earlier in 2011 we streamlined a Consumer Tissue facility in Australia.
In addition as mentioned in this morning's news release we recently made a decision to streamline an additional Consumer Tissue facility in North America that is located in Chester Pennsylvania.
Taking into account all restructuring actions both the January 2011 announcement and this additional streamlining action we now expect total restructuring charges of $385 million to $420 million after-tax over the 2011 and 2012 time period within the range we expected 1 year ago.
We incurred $289 million of after-tax charges in 2011.
So most of the restructuring charges are now behind us.
Lastly in terms of the benefits from restructuring we're ahead of plan.
Fourth quarter savings were about $10 million.
That brings full year 2011 savings to $20 million.
We continue to grow -- expect to grow savings and reach at least $75 million in 2013 and we now anticipate savings of at least $100 million in 2014.
So all in all I'm very pleased with the progress our teams are making with all our restructuring actions.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth led by K-C International.
We delivered improved margins and earnings per share and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Since Mark has already reviewed the fourth quarter I'll focus my comments on the full year and then I'll discuss our 2012 outlook.
So starting with our 2011 performance adjusted earnings per share rose 3% in 2011.
That's below our original objective for the year.
That was mostly due to 2 factors.
First we absorbed about $580 million of cost inflation and that was more than double our original expectation for the year.
And second we had soft demand in portions of our developed markets particularly in the infant and child care categories in the U.S.
which continue to be impacted by a multi-year decline in the birth rate.
So regardless of the reasons we're not satisfied with the results that we delivered in 2011 and we plan to get back on track in 2012.
Having said that we did make good progress in several areas that I'll highlight briefly.
First we launched a number of innovations including Huggies Little Movers Slip-On Diapers Poise Hourglass Shape Pads Kleenex Cool Touch facial tissue U by Kotex tweens and an improved COTTONELLE bathroom tissue.
All of these innovations are performing very well in the marketplace so far.
Our innovations and our supporting marketing programs helped improve our brands' market positions.
In the U.S.
we improved or maintained market share in 6 of our 8 consumer categories in 2011.
We also increased market share in a number of areas in K-C International such as in China and in Latin America.
Second we successfully executed our growth initiatives.
K-C International's performance was particularly strong with 8% organic sales growth and a double-digit increase in operating profit.
In China Personal Care organic growth was 20% boosted by our expanding diaper business while Huggies are now sold in more than 70 cities.
And in Latin America Personal Care organic growth was more than 15%.
In total K-C International accounted for about 36% of K-C's sales in 2011.
That's up 3 percentage points from the previous year.
Elsewhere we achieved mid to high single-digit volume growth in North America in a number of businesses including adult care feminine care baby wipes and our Health Care medical device business.
Third we took aggressive steps in response to the cost environment.
We achieved higher net selling prices of 2% and we delivered $265 million in FORCE cost savings and we tightly controlled our overhead spending.
In terms of commodities cost moderated some over the back half of 2011 from the peak levels we experienced in the summer.
At the same time our pricing and cost reduction initiatives built further momentum.
As a result our second half of the year adjusted gross margin was up 100 basis points from the first half of the year.
So I'm encouraged by this performance and I expect more improvement in 2012.
Finally as Mark mentioned we made excellent progress with our restructuring actions and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
So overall we achieved our top line goal we missed our bottom line target last year.
We also delivered a number of important accomplishments and we plan to build on them going forward.
Now let me turn to our 2012 outlook.
In short our plan is to continue to execute our global business plan to invest behind our brands and to deliver improved growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Now we expect economic conditions to remain challenging in the near term particularly in developed markets.
And while we're cautiously optimistic that portions of the U.S.
economy are improving we aren't planning for a big increase in market demand.
Category demand will remain soft in the infant and child care categories in the U.S.
and we're also closely monitoring the European marketplace and events in Venezuela.
On the other hand we anticipate another strong year for K-C International boosted by solid economic growth and execution of our growth strategies.
In terms of commodity costs we're assuming a relatively benign environment in 2012.
We currently expect an impact in the range of $50 million of deflation to $50 million of inflation.
So costs will be down slightly in developed markets but up somewhat in emerging markets.
On the other hand given the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar over the last several months foreign currency exchange rates will likely be a headwind for us this year.
We have an excellent pipeline of innovation launching across the business this year [indiscernible] activities in North America include an improved Huggies diaper a new and improved Huggies baby wipes lineup and exciting innovations in adult care and feminine care.
We also have several launches coming in K-C International particularly in infant care and in feminine care.
So we'll support our innovations and targeted growth initiatives with an increased level of strategic marketing and spending in this area should rise much faster than sales growth.
We'll also increase our investments in research and development and selling to support our future growth and to improve our capabilities.
At the same time we'll continue to manage our company with financial discipline.
We expect to deliver another solid year of cost savings and to return significant amounts of cash to shareholders again this year.
So all in all in 2012 we expect to deliver organic sales growth of 3% to 4% and adjusted earnings per share growth of 4% to 7%.
The growth in adjusted earnings per share compares favorably to our 2011 growth of 3%.
Similar to 2011 given the timing of our initiatives we expect that adjusted earnings per share will be stronger in the second half of 2012.
So to summarize we continue to execute our strategies for the long-term benefit of Kimberly-Clark.
We expect to make significant investments behind our brands in 2012 and deliver improved bottom line growth.
And we remain convinced that execution of our Global Business Plan will continue to improve shareholder value.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just a few questions.
One is obviously want to drill down a little bit further on K-C North America particularly on infant and child care being down high-single digits.
And you mentioned some drivers so category softness from birth rate competitive promotion and trade-down.
Can you help just aggregate the large decline into those buckets so we can try to figure out -- I mean can you help us figure out going forward which one of these things are going to get better? Yes I guess I'd say a couple of things.
If you looked at -- for the full year of 2011 the category for baby -- for diapers was down 2% to 3%.
Our volume was down about 4%.
So it was a little bit steeper in the fourth quarter with the count decline.
Basically we took 7% of diapers out of every bag across the fourth quarter.
Usually we don't see all of that hit.
This time we took a bigger hit from that.
So that should start to roll off as consumers rebuild their household inventory.
Second factor price.
We'd expected to realize more of that price in the fourth quarter.
More of it wound up being spent back in trade but also in couponing really to respond to the competitive environment.
Some of that was a response to our launch of Huggies Little Movers Slip-On Diapers in the third quarter where there was still a lot of noise in the marketplace.
But that should start to get better sequentially.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay if we switch gears just a second and obviously you guys are very well known for strong capital allocation giving back to shareholders.
This year I think it was $2.3 billion and I'm referring [ph] -- I think it was $2.3 billion.
Next year it sounds like it's going to be a little less than that both dividend and share buyback.
But it's been at least for the past couple of years below your free cash flow.
How should we think about that? How should we think about the philosophy there and the safety frankly of those things that people gravitate towards from the quarter 4 [ph].
And also particularly in the context that it looks like it's going to be a little bit less this year versus last year.
So last year as you'll recall we said early in the year we were going to take out about $700 million of additional leverage and that that was going to be a higher than normal year.
So I'd say this year will be another solid year.
I think it'll be the 40th year in a row we've increased the dividend.
So that's obviously a strong long-standing commitment expect to see that continue.
And I'd say maybe the challenge that lots of multinationals face is as we make more money overseas is getting that money back on a timely basis to be able to use it to fund dividends and share repurchases and we've been aggressive at that.
And you see that in the slightly higher effective tax rate next year than this year as it does cost more to bring that money back.
But it's not our plan to accumulate cash in the balance sheet long-term.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So is it your plan to accumulate debt to be able to pay the dividend and the share buyback that people are used to? No.
I think if you take a look at the cash flow we'll generate say next year round numbers let's take $3 billion you'll have $1 billion to $1.1 billion go to CapEx you'll have $1 billion to $1.1 billion go to dividends and the balance will go back to -- in the form of share repurchases.
As the business grows you want to target to be a solid single A credit.
Over time as we did this year if we can take on just a little bit of leverage and keep us right in that solid range we might make the decision to do that.
But you should think about us funding those obligations primarily out of operating cash flow.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Because that hasn't been the case for the past couple of years obviously.
So -- and then last question is is just a broader question of what you said for reaching your top line but we missed at the bottom line goal and then next year gross profit will grow faster than operating profit.
It seems like -- and this is not just a Kimberly question -- you have a broad obviously view of the whole sector but it feels like look this is just the new world we're in where you're going to have to invest more one is going to have to invest more than you used to just to grow like you used to.
Is that -- are you seeing any end in sight about this? Or is that just kind of the new view that we're going to have to have going forward here? Well I'd say the markets are certainly more competitive and there's plenty of things to worry about in the world today.
But if I look at last year and say wow we had a commodity cost spike that was double our original expectations it's tougher to get price quickly to cover that and that showed up in our numbers.
We do have a fair amount of carryover price increase coming into 2012 and commodity environment looks like it's going to be more neutral for us.
So we should see that flow to the bottom line a little bit more readily in 2012.
Next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One wanted to just go back on the Personal Care margins.
Obviously it's kind of the lowest that we've seen in a while.
So as we think about the year progressing and coming off that floor I mean what's your view? Is it more commodity is going to get better as the year progresses? Or do you see the promotional environment easing? And can you get back to that 20% kind of margin that we've been accustomed to seeing for the last couple of years? Yes I'd say a good near-term target is to say -- if you look at where the fourth quarter margin was in Personal Care it was kind of the low point to get back.
In 2012 something closer to the average for 2011 would be a good first step and that's probably more realistic given the -- at least where the price of oil seems to be hanging these days.
I'd say the things that are going to get better will be one getting some positive price realization as opposed to negative price drag.
That's the quickest and easiest as it's already in place in the marketplace.
We've just got to bring it to the bottom line.
There'll be some commodity relief but that's not going to be a huge plus for us in Personal Care.
You probably may be seeing more in the near term on tissue with lower pulp prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just shifting to my next question I think you said when we look at the cadence of earnings for the year the second half would be stronger than the first half.
Was that correct? Yes I said the profile will be similar to what it was in 2011.
So I think in 2011 the way it shook out is I don't know 47% of our full year earnings were in the first half and 53% were in the second half.
So what you tend to see is a slightly positive bias toward the back of just because cost savings build during the year.
And so you'll -- that's typically the way it plays out.
We have a couple of other business KCP and Health Care in particular where distributors tend to have a much stronger December than January.
And so there's a little bit of seasonal bias that pushes it that way as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I guess my thought was that the first half you would see much stronger gross margins just given the easier comparisons and kind of where pulp has played out in -- unless is there any change in cadence for the organic sales the 3 to 4 should that be pretty steady every quarter? Or I mean maybe the timing of innovation I'm just wondering -- that's why I was just a little curious why the second half would -- I understand the cost savings but why the second half would be stronger than the first half especially with the gross margin kind of upside coming in the first half of the year.
Yes.
The cost inflation should be much more favorable in the first half of the year especially as pulp is below our full year estimate range but some of the other factors you said timing of innovation and the -- and marketing investments related to that affected as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just the last question.
I know last quarter you talked a bit about trade destocking in the Battery [ph] category.
I was just wondering just generally speaking relationship with retailers.
Are you seeing anything in North America in particular right now just in terms of how retailers are managing the inventory especially in the category like diapers where you are seeing softer trends? I would say nothing abnormal at this time of the year.
And so retailers everywhere just like companies like us are all trying to take days out of their cash conversion cycle.
And so you see that kind of push but these are pretty high-turn categories.
So they can't afford to be out of stock either so I think that's the balance point for us.
Our next question comes from John San Marco with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was surprised you didn't call out the mix shift toward K-C International as a driver of margin decline in the Personal Care segment.
Can you tell me either how operating margins compare in K-C International versus rest of world or how much of the margin decline is being driven by K-C International's rapid growth? Or is it really just not that material? The mix shift from K-C International is not that material overall.
And so I mean we took a look at it and didn't think it was noteworthy enough to comment on.
And John this is Paul.
Actually just for the fourth quarter margins in K-C International Personal Care were up year-over-year.
So the gap is closing.
We got more price in Personal Care in the International business than we did in the -- obviously North America was negative.
So that was part of it.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then this brings me to my second question which is I was hoping to learn more about the 7% price decrease in Europe Personal Care.
Was that promotion or list price? And then I guess why make such as severe price investment when the volume growth in that region seemed to be pretty darn strong? Yes.
It's really more of a timing of promotion in Europe.
As to when you're on deal you typically have bigger discounts and higher volume spikes and it's more of a function of how the trade in Europe wants to run the category.
So when you're on promotion you're going to see that kind of a relationship.
If you look at the full year you wouldn't see as big of a shift.
It just happened that more of it was in the fourth quarter of this year compared to last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last just one quick housecleaning.
Did you say how much advertising was up for the quarter or for the year? For the year it was pretty flat in absolute dollar terms and I don't know Paul if you've got the quarterly numbers.
Similar I think if...
It's the same for the fourth quarter pretty similar to year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
This is James Armstrong filling in for Chip.
First question why did the diluted share count increase at the end of the year? Was there something abnormal with the options or was something else going on? Well we hit a all-time record stock price so there was higher option exercise than normal in the fourth quarter.
So that was the primary factor.
Yes and we didn't buy shares in the fourth quarter which we expected.
Okay perfect.
And then the other question I have is on tissue and pulp restructuring you saw a $20 million benefit in 2011 and expect $30 million in 2012.
First am I right in assuming that that is an incremental $30 million for 2012 for a total of $50 million? And then second why is the improvement this gradual specifically given the Everett mill is a giant discrete item why wouldn't you see more of $100 million in 2012? Yes good questions.
The answer to your first question is yes the $30 million is incremental to the $20 million.
And the answer to the second question is we -- given we knew where this was going we really started taking steps to reduce spend at Everett in 2011 which is why we probably got more benefit in 2011 than maybe we were expecting at the time we started the restructuring.
So cutting maintenance spending things like that that wouldn't have a benefit when you knew the facility was going to be closed or sold were -- we were able to get more benefit there in 2011 than we expected.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
One I think that Mark made a comment that you were looking to realize more diaper pricing going in 2012.
And the question is what needs to happen because we understood that the Slip-On Diaper introduction the couponing you probably already knew it and basically we should have seen a more positive mix in the fourth quarter given that you reduced the diaper count.
So I'm kind of like confused how come we see diaper pricing deterioration in the fourth quarter but at the same time Mark mentioned that you are looking for more pricing realization and the volumes are so weak.
So I'm confused about your guidance and the way you are looking at the category in the U.S.
No I think in the fourth quarter we wound up spending more on coupons competitively to make sure that we had the right value equation.
Some of that was in response to our Slip-ons launch.
Some of it was just the other activity that takes place in the category from time to time.
So we didn't realize as much of the price increase as we thought we would.
We expect that to be better overall in 2012 as the pricing is in effect longer and we would expect to see a more -- competitors line up to that over time.
We'll see what happens in the marketplace.
LLC</strong> Yes but if your volumes were so weak with less pricing what give you confidence that you can realize more pricing? Shouldn't volume even worsen if you take more pricing? I mean if volumes were down so much in the quarter why is it that if you take more pricing volumes are not going to deteriorate? Yes.
I mean our share overall was flat in the quarter.
So we'd say -- we picked up some share with Slip-ons and in our Super Premium segment.
We've got some innovation coming in 2012 that will obviously strengthen our product line up across the board and we believe that in the end mom wants the best diaper for her baby and she'll choose Huggies with the product lineup that we have in place.
LLC</strong> And finally on the planning assumption of pulp averaging $940 to $960 per ton into 2012.
Our pricing the thing that we see in the spot market is well below that.
It's nearly or over $100 per ton in January.
So 2 questions here.
Why is it that you are forecasting such a conservative pulp budget number? And secondly coming back to the question whether your earnings progression should be front-end loaded instead of back-end loaded just because of given that the cost environment is such a -- you have the carryover of the pricing in 2011 and then you have -- you're lapping very high commodity increases last year.
So I'm still also confused about how much of advertising spending you need to increase in order to make these earnest progression back-end loaded again in 2012? Yes good questions.
From a pulp forecasting standpoint we look at the 3 major industry forecasters and average those and that's basically what our process is.
We don't try to outsmart the experts in this area.
And so the experts are expecting China to come back and be a stronger buyer and that's going to lead to higher fiber prices as 2012 progresses.
We'll see if that takes place and we'll update you on our actual assumptions as we go through the year.
We don't buy a lot of spot tonnage but the current market price is below that.
And so that will be a factor that will help the first part of the year.
But there are other factors that will push it the other direction and I think as we said overall our guidance is to be slightly back-half loaded not easily [ph] so but a profile looks similar to what we saw in 2011.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you.
On the other income line we saw a big favorable swing.
I think it was about $0.13 or so this year.
And just wondering as we look to map that out next year it's going to be a relatively tough lap again sort of more in the back half of the year which would argue for a little more of a front-end loaded year.
But how do we think about that line item not just for 2012 but also sort of longer term to try and map that out a little bit better? Yes.
I mean the primary thing that goes in there on a normal basis is currency exchange or transaction gains and losses on currency hedges that we have in place.
And so we had more gains this year which was a big driver.
Our guess is as we look at swings in the currency market late in 2011 we'll likely have more losses on those lines in 2012.
And we also had a onetime effect.
We sold a small healthcare joint venture that went in the fourth quarter.
So that kind of stuff will pop in there from time to time when we have those small gains or losses on things.
This year they happen to be gains but in our guidance we don't assume that any of those will take place in 2012.
So that'll also be a factor in the year-on-year earnings growth rate.
We won't have as much good news on that line for sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we're probably better off just going in predicting something closer to flat or plus or minus low singles and then kind of going from there.
Is that the right way to look at it? I'd say that sounds about right.
Research Division</strong> And then you guys talked about the working capital improvement that you're projecting out.
And can you walk us through? Is that can be something we should see relatively quickly? Or is that something you think it's going to be sort of a slow build over the course of the year? No it'll be a slow build across the year.
Inventories will be the key driver.
We do have a lot of innovation coming to market which is depending on which business is launching you're going to see some ebbs and flows as we build inventories to get ready for launch.
But you should think of it as more gradual and it's -- order of magnitude 2 to 3 days over the course of the year.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Going back to inflation a little bit.
Can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of -- and expecting in terms of both waste paper and resins? I mean the white pulp if anything waste paper seems to have come off even sharper.
Are you expecting that to rebound as you are with pulp? Yes I mean I think our full year forecast for waste paper is higher than the current spot and that's one that -- we hit an all-time record in September and then it dropped way off in the -- late in the fourth quarter.
And so we're currently seeing prices in the market that are below our full year average.
And that one we don't have ramping back up probably quite as much as pulp this year but there is still -- the forecast for that is to have some upward pressure as the year progresses.
And resin I'd say the -- our current outlook for the year is slightly higher than the current prices we're paying.
So we're really calling for oil in that -- how does it fall $90 to $100 a barrel kind of range or...
Yes $95 to $105.
$95 to $105 yes.
Polymer for the full year shouldn't be a big factor in the year-over-year comparisons pretty similar to 2011 average.
But as Tom mentioned it's starting off the year a little bit lower than our full year expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about demand trends that you're seeing in K-C Professional around the world anything that makes you feel maybe a little bit better entering 2012 or a little bit worse given how economically sensitive it is? Yes.
I guess a couple of things.
I mean our businesses in emerging markets is a place we're putting a lot of focus.
So we've got some aggressive growth plan in Latin America places like China and Russia.
So we're putting more sales people on the ground and we're really -- we're aggressively growing those areas.
So we're certainly taking share and in some cases pioneering new category spaces.
I would say Europe for lots of reasons that all of you are likely aware of we would say is probably one that's looking like it's going to have a tougher economic growth year in 2012.
We already have strong share positions there but the economic growth and the pricing environment in Europe is going to be tough.
North America a mixed bag.
I think we're cautiously optimistic.
We saw some progress in the fourth quarter in our washroom business and we've got a lot of innovation coming in 2012.
So we'd probably expect to see a fairly benign economic growth so very low single-digit and we could hopefully do a little bit better than that in the North American market particularly in places like safety and healthy workplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
You mentioned the trade-down in infant and child care and I'm wondering one was that mainly in terms of product or was it private label? And was that something you're seeing in any of your other product areas? Private label shares actually for the full year were pretty flat and I think they were flatter down in all categories but one.
And in diapers what you saw more was Pampers lost a little bit of share to Luvs and we picked up in our Super Premium segment behind the launch of our Slip-On Diapers.
And we gave it up out of our tier 4 business or our mainline business but private label shares were fairly flat.
I don't know Paul if you've got the data there but...
Yes just to build on that.
In the fourth quarter private label picked up about 1 share point in the training pant category.
In training pant but not in diapers.
Diapers they were -- it was flat.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But did you see anything across any other product areas in tissue or anything else? No.
As Tom mentioned for the full year private label was up in only 1 category and that was about 0.5 point in feminine care.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Just a couple of more questions on your outlook for commodities.
It strikes me also that natural gas is at a decade low.
And I think electric rates might also be lower than they were in the last year.
Is it -- can you tell us what your outlook on those is? And if costs come in better than your forecast is it your intention to reinvest it or to drop it to earnings? Yes good question.
So I mean natural gas I think our outlook is what Paul $3.50? $3.00 to $3.50.
Yes and so that's a little higher than the current spot prices.
Obviously we also buy a lot of gas around the world.
And so it's -- those are -- that's just the U.S.
price and there is more variability around that.
For every dollar and MMBtu it's what $16 million or something on a full year basis.
So that can be a big impact.
Now we are at least partially hedged going into 2012.
And so we're typically hedging 12 to 18 months out on a rolling basis.
So not all of that will drop directly to the bottom line and part of it we will have locked in to protect against spikes.
And from a pricing standpoint I mean it's our intention to take the benefit of the commodity costs where we can.
Obviously if it shifts too much you'll start to see market pricing adjust in some categories and that can be an offset.
We already have our strategic marketing plan laid out for the year and know where we want to spend it and what we are going to spend it on and so we'll focus on that.
But if we have benefit from commodity costs over that we'll risk surprising you on the upside.
Okay.
Can you describe how business [ph] does in terms of demand or takeaway or market straddle when the balance of strategic spending [indiscernible] promotion versus tilted more to advertising? Again I'm not -- the question was broken up just a little bit Connie.
Were you asking how is the business plan looking at it with strategic marketing versus trade? Yes it's not how it --  it's more what's your experience in terms of demand or market share when the plan is [indiscernible] more towards advertising versus promotion.
Well I think that one of the exciting things about the plan is that it's not just advertising by itself.
It's advertising coupled with some great innovation aimed at a specific consumer need area.
And so we've got great innovation in the market that we're supporting now.
We've got more coming in 2012.
And so we're going to spend behind those big ideas.
And what we've seen is when we do that you have stories like you buy Kotex where you can pick up  share in the marketplace.
And so that's what the plan is in 2012 is to continue to invest behind innovation invest behind our brands in emerging markets.
And that's a more sustainable way to create growth going forward.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
So first was just on the businesses in Personal Care that aren't infant and child care.
So I know wipes tend to be a bit choppy depending on timing of promotions and such.
But both fem care and adult care decelerated.
Adult Care I would've thought you would have kind a follow-on benefit of the Poise launch at the end of the last quarter and it's the first time we've seen fem care volume down slightly.
Comp has been tough for a while.
So any additional color you can add there would be great.
Yes.
Probably it's timing of innovation.
We've got a lot of innovation coming in fem care in 2012 and so we probably had a little lighter promotional calendar than normal.
And we're saving up our dry powder for that activity which is going to hit later this year.
And in Adult Care I'd say overall shares look good and promotional calendar was a little lighter.
It was around some of the same phenomena.
We've got some innovation coming particularly in North America on that front.
So both businesses had a solid year overall and look like they've got great growth planned for 2012.
Research Division</strong> On the fem care piece was U by Kotex volume still up or was that part down as well? [indiscernible] Yes.
No U by Kotex was still up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Adult I'm just curious though because the Poise launch happened at the end of the quarter.
So was there any kind of shifting of promotional dollars also because of the competitive dynamics in child and infant care? Was that part of it? No no really not.
I mean we laid up a plan for those businesses and executed the plan.
And I think despite the challenges in infant and child care one of the things our North American team did a great job on this year is really insulate the key innovations.
So whether it was Cool Touch or some of the new COTTONELLE variants or some of the things that we launched in independent Poise we did those really per the plan that we tested.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then K-C International I mean it did -- I know the growth is still quite strong especially relative to developed markets but there was a pretty significant deceleration sequentially.
So just what were the biggest win factors there?  And the comp wasn't particularly tough.
You had Venezuela in the numbers last year.
So as we look forward are we thinking high single digits or just go back to being double-digit growth? No.
I think that's the right range.
If you look at our business in China and Latin America those did very very well.
There's other parts of the world that aren't as strong.
Australia for example had a relatively soft volume quarter.
Korea still is quite strong.
So there was nothing fundamental in the numbers that I saw that was driving that.
I don't know Paul if you've got any other color for Lauren.
Yes just the one another thing that happened in Q4 Lauren was we started to roll off a little bit of some of the price increases that helped boost the numbers in the third quarter.
But volumes continue to grow nicely and high single-digit growth overall for the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on restructuring.
So the additional North America tissue piece can you just tell us a little bit more about what that facility is? Is it more private label or is it branded capacity? No the -- Chester is a large tissue facility in the Northeast that has served the heritage Scott tissue and Scott towel business for many many years.
And it's really a testimony to our Consumer Tissue  supply chain team that as Dave currently leading [ph] the organization and freed up capacity they were able to take some capacity out of that facility and still service our business with our remaining assets.
And so we challenged them to continue to improve margin and find ways to improve their cost structure and they've served up some really exciting ideas for us this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And my final thing sorry was just on share repurchase.
So I mean my memory is that last quarter when you talked about making the bigger pension contribution and holding back on repo in the fourth quarter that the expectation was a sort of above-normal year for repurchase in 2012.
and just the numbers you've laid out strong but fairly typical actually.
So what's changed in your thought process on share repurchase for this year? Yes Lauren I think on a typical basis we might buy back 700 million to 800 million of shares.
We're at 900 million to 1 billion this year.
If we have additional cash that we can bring back effectively we'll probably -- there's a chance we could buy it -- be a little bit above that.
But it's consistent with the plan we laid out in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have a follow-up question about your first half versus second half guidance.
I think you said the year is going to be second half weighted similarly to 2011.
So that means the year-over-year increases in earnings are likely to be even throughout the year? Yes similarly.
Yes that sounds about right.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And your guidance is for an increase in your SG&amp;A ratio driven largely by intensified marketing it sounds like.
Is that going to be weighted entirely to Personal Care? We had in the fourth quarter spending between-the-line in tissue was down and promotions were also not a factor off the top line for tissue.
So I'm just wondering if the increase in spending is all weighted to Personal Care in 2012.
It's probably heavier weighted to Personal Care.
We've got more innovation coming in baby child care and adult care and feminine care in 2012.
But where we have innovation on COTTONELLE or Kleenex around the world we'll spend behind those ideas as well.
I think on the selling expense front we are also adding selling expense capability for our K-C Professional and Health Care businesses as we grow those businesses internationally especially.
So you'll see a little bit of a push in that line.
And we're trying to manage the rest of our G&amp;A to grow at a slower rate than sales if we can.
Inc.</strong> Should we assume that SG&amp;A in tissue is up versus 2011 the ratio? In terms of including strategic marketing? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> So that intensifying SG&amp;A ratio applies to both Personal Care and tissue? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And my final question is about margins for Personal Care.
I think you said that in 2012 you should get to the average margin for 2011.
Does that mean that we should see for all of 2012 the same or similar margin for Personal Care as the entirety of 2011? Or are we only going to get to the average of 2011 by the end of 2012? No I think for a full year basis that's the right target.
And so that's what we're aiming at.
Inc.</strong> And the idea is margins might be down in the first half and up in the second for Personal Care? Certainly the comparisons will be tougher in the first half.
That's for sure.
And so you should expect to see more of the year-over-year quarterly improvement happen in the second half just because the comparisons will be a lot easier.
Inc.</strong> And then since we've got even EPS increases through the year overall now does that mean that operating margins might be up more for tissue in the first half than the second as sort of an offset to what happens in Personal Care? Well you -- with the lower pulp cost you're going to get more benefit of that in tissue in the first part of the year.
That's for sure.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we've sort of got reverse trends in terms of margin comps in tissue from Personal Care? In the first half of the year that's probably correct.
Our next question comes from Todd Duvick with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Greg Hessler standing in for Todd.
Just one quick housekeeping item.
You guys have the February 2012 maturity of $400 million.
Have you identified whether you plan to retire that with excess cash on hand or if you'd to look refinance that? It would be a combination of cash on hand and short- and long-term debt.
We'll make that call in February.
We exited the year with no commercial paper outstanding so we got lots of flexibility.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to get a little bit deeper into the reinvestments you're going to make right? So I guess if I look at marketing research G&amp;A as a percentage of sales I guess it spent a lot of time historically around 17% crept its way up to 18.6% in 2010 came back down again in 2011.
And I guess for your guidance to work right for operating profit to grow 3% to 6% and for gross profit to grow more than that -- in other words if we assume your guidance on gross profit and for your EPS guidance to make sense you need mRNA basically MR G&amp;A to be that kind of at historical highs in 2010.
And I guess can you talk a little bit about that? And is that right? And is that maybe why we're seeing the organic sales guidance at plus 3 to 4 which is essentially an acceleration in a pretty tough environment? Yes well I think you're directionally right on the level of spending and if we spend all that money and don't get any top line lift I'm going to feel really bad about it.
So yes we are -- we do have a lot of innovation coming.
We're going to invest behind it at appropriate levels.
We've got exciting growth plans in our emerging markets around the world where we're building out our platform.
And we've got -- we're going to continue to invest despite the challenging economic environment and we believe this is a great opportunity for us to drive our business and pick up share in some of these markets.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
And I guess can you just give a little color around I guess the disaggregation between launch spending and I guess you made reference to capabilities building capabilities in the press release [ph] too.
And I think you said something about building up in Latin America.
Can you just talk I guess about how you might think about the breakout between those 2? You mean in terms of how much of it is onetime versus how much of it is part of long-term plan? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Essentially yes.
I mean how much is advertising right behind new product launches? And how much of it is just building up a sales force in places where you want to be more aggressive? I'd say more of it is strategic marketing and a much smaller percentage of it would be building up sales capability.
And so it is one -- if you said we -- a healthy model is we're bringing margin-accretive innovation to market enhancing our gross margin and reinvesting a part of that every year in higher strategic marketing spending.
We haven't always been able to do that because of the commodity volatility we face and the difficulty we've had in getting price increases to offset that.
And so this is another step forward in that direction but it's one that we think is a journey that if we continue to drive innovation at the right level we'll be strategically investing in the business long term.
Research Division</strong> Right that's helpful.
And I guess one last thing can you try to help us out I guess directionally on what you think pension expense year-on-year in 2012 will be and what you think the FX drag from a profit perspective would be? I mean even if you had it in basis points gross margin grade EPS pennies either way would be...
Yes.
The pension should be pretty flat.
We put enough money in the plan last year and as you know we took some action several years ago to really wind up or freeze our DB plan so that we don't have as big of an impact.
We moved everybody into a defined contribution in the U.S.
So that isn't as big of a factor as it may have would have been in previous years.
And FX I don't know Paul if you've got any color on that from a percentage drag? Yes if you look at just translation it could be a couple of points of operating profit headwind and transaction is harder to quantify precisely but it's probably in that ballpark as well.
So overall currency is going to be a mid single-digit drag on results next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And from the profit side some of that's I suspect in gross margins or in COGS and some of it's also in between-the-lines is that right? Right.
And some of it might wind up in the other income expense line or the transaction part where we had gains this year we may have losses next year.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I know you talked about private label trends in diapers this year but if you look back to like 2008 till now it looks like private label took about 4 points of market share.
Do you think that's cyclical?  Or is that a change in consumers' mindset in the diaper side? Because obviously that's a lot of volume that's going away.
Yes our total category view would not be that significant.
Actually it spiked up in early '08 when the -- by a couple of points when the economy turned south and then it has shifted back down.
So you might be looking at some of the measured outlet data might look a little different.
But on an all-outlet basis that we look at I don't know.
Paul's got the numbers in front of him but...
It's about 1.5 points increase Bill from 2008 to today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean that's a big increase though right? I mean especially because it's such capacity utilization game in diapers? Yes.
I mean I would say it's not a trivial increase but it is one that we continue to be focused on.
We've got to be competitive across all spectrums.
So I would say if you look back to a little longer perspective when I was running the diaper business in the early '90s I think private label shares were up in the mid-20s.
And so they actually have come down over the long term even though they have spiked up a little bit in recent terms.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just on pricing again.
Broadly it seems like it's really schizophrenic.
So I mean if you look in the U.K.
and it's only a quarter of data but it seems like you guys had a 12% price decrease in diapers.
I mean is that really just timing of promotions? But you kind of do it category by category tissues use was way up Procter's [ph] was flat.
I mean can we read anything in terms of like is there going to be a consistent pricing across the industry? Or kind of what's going on there? Because you've got both trade as a reduction of sales and consumer coupon values as a reduction of sales we add all of that up into a net plus or minus price number.
You're going to have more volatility there.
And so there really wasn't any list price changes in Europe.
It was all a combination of trade and couponing and the same is true in the U.S.
So you're going to have more volatility in those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I mean so we shouldn't -- it doesn't suggest that there's a change in strategy in Europe.
I mean you want to optimize get to that double-digit operating profit number and then take it from there.
Is that still the MO in Europe? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the tax rate because like you said before you're generating all this cash overseas and you're going to continue to repatriate it to pay the dividend and whatnot.
I mean is the tax rate for next year the new base? Or will it kind of go up every single year because more and more cash is coming in from overseas and has to be repatriated every year? And the reason I ask that is if that's the case because it looks like the sort of evergreen 6% to 9% EPS growth [ph] algorithm it's still in place but you lose kind of 2 points on tax.
And is there going to be a 2 point tax hit every year now going forward? No I don't think so.
I think what you typically see is probably -- and Mark's looking at me so I'll let him correct my estimate here but I would say we've assumed in our plan something like a 30 to 40 basis point increase in the effective rate over time makes sense.
And actually we came in at low end of our range this year.
Next year is more kind of the normal level that you'd expect and so we've got to go do tax planning and see if we can improve on that.
We don't have the visibility of those at this point.
But Mark maybe you want to add more color to that.
No.
I think that's right.
If you look at the last 10 years tax has been a help to our algorithm.
Looking forward it's probably going to be a little bit of a drag.
But I think the good news is from an operating standpoint the business we've got between innovation and marketing support we should be able to have more of an operating earnings-driven plan.
But -- and we're -- our tax team works hard.
We've worked hard to get to the bottom end of the range this year and we'll work hard to get to the bottom end of the range next year.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick things.
Can you tell us what's going on in Mexico and what you think the outlook is for that? And also just elaborate a little bit on the Venezuela risk.
And then I just want to clarify are you -- is there very little risk of a down first quarter? Because again it seems like you did say it's going to be a back-end loaded year.
I just want to understand what the risk is in the first quarter if you could help.
Yes sure.
On Mexico I assume you're talking about Kimberly-Clark de Mexico and so we've got a very strong business there.
They had a little tougher finish to the year where they got hit in the fourth quarter with a weaker peso and high commodity costs and they didn't get much price realization.
They're expecting a better year in 2012 as the peso should improve a bit on a relative basis and they should be able to get some pricing.
So we're expecting that to be a positive.
Venezuela is one that -- obviously with a presidential election this year it's difficult to say what exactly will happen there.
It's only about 1% of our sales and about 3% of our operating profit.
And so it's not a huge factor for us and it's one that we're watching and managing very closely.
And with regard to the first quarter we don't really give specific quarterly guidance anymore and so we'll give you a full year guidance and a little bit of a perspective on the profile and then every quarter we'll update you on how we did.
And so that's really the message we have going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just sorry a follow-on.
The retail environment when they see pulp prices down as much as they are are you -- you tend to encounter some pressure to withdraw pricing or to fund sales in any other way retailer-driven? I mean even at our current pricing levels the current level of pulp cost would support that.
And so we never really were priced up for the peak and much of the pricing went into effect at pulp price levels that are pretty similar to where they are now.
And so that doesn't mean they don't call and ask but we have a very good story when they do.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry are you in any way hedged on pulp? Or do you tend to just buy in the open market? No we tend to buy at a market-based price.
The next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
It's actually me this time.
I'm having -- I just wanted to -- I have a little difficulty in reconciling the year.
If we look at your pulp forecast which is spot on to what Reese [ph] said 2011 was for NBSK 951.
And so we just made a simple extrapolation that the 2 tissue segments were roughly flat '11 to '12 and I'm not saying that but just roughly that would mean that the Personal Care business would have to really surge back in 2012 to like a record like $1.8 billion in terms of EBIT to get you there.
And so it just seems like if I take your pulp forecast and assume nothing else heroic happens in K-C Professional or Consumer Tissue you're going to have to see quite a turnaround from the rate of earnings that you saw in PC in the second half which was actually under $1.5 billion.
So is that -- is there a different way you would encourage us to think about that? Yes.
I would say assuming that K-C Professional and Consumer Tissue were flat year-on-year would probably be an incorrect set of assumptions.
So we wouldn't think that was an acceptable plan and the people that we have running those businesses wouldn't either.
So yes no we would expect to have a decent growth year in both KCP and Consumer Tissue in 2012.
We got lots of cost savings coming through.
We got more restructuring savings coming through.
We've got lots of brand activity going on.
So I'd expect to see a positive growth year in both those segments of the business.
And so even if they both were up about 10% which would be $130 million you would still have to have a number that approaches the 2010 level for Personal Care to get to at least on my calculations to the low end.
So I guess even then you're still saying you expect a nice recovery in Personal Care during 2012.
Yes.
And as we talked I mean getting back -- we've got a lot of innovation coming lots of investment behind that but getting back to a margin that is roughly equivalent to the full year segment average in 2011 would be a big turnaround in that business this year.
Okay.
And then the second little question I had was I noticed on the -- well 2 things on the -- do you actually disclose or can you tell us much natural gas you use at least in the U.S.
and maybe outside the U.S.
every year? Yes natural gas we use about 16 million MMBtus a year.
So every dollar of MMBtu is about $16 million in cost and that's really just North America.
We don't have -- I don't think we've given statistics outside of that.
But I don't know Paul if you've got any other rules of thumb for him.
The global number including the U.S.
would be about twice that amount.
Yes.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned I don't have it in front of me but the other fiber that you use beyond pulp I believe was 1.4 million which was a lot higher than what I think we'd have been using in the past.
And I didn't know if that is just -- I would imagine most of that kind of is reflecting the growth outside of the U.S.
in Consumer and K-C Professional.
Is that basically it? Yes that's basically right.
I'd say that number's been kind of creeping up.
I mean it was 1.2 million not that long ago but now it's up to about 1.4 million.
And so it just reflects growth in KCP and in some cases recovered fiber is a pretty significant source of fiber for our consumer business as well in some markets.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I have a question with regards to again to the Personal Care business the diaper business in North America.
Number one if you can tell us how much of the decline in volumes has to do with the changing diaper count? And also whether this allocation or this change in inventory for retailers that $30 million that you commented in the release is disproportionately allocated to diapers.
I'm just trying to understand what is the underlying industry growth in diapers given that you are saying that you didn't lose share but again high single-digit volume growth is pretty high.
So I don't think that -- I just trying to reconcile this.
No the $30 million was really a cost of downtime in the quarter.
And so that was our -- the cost of idling facilities and that was spread across our business in various places as our teams really -- they focus on hitting inventory at a target level and if they're at target level then they shut machines down whatever business that is in the world.
And so some of that fell on our Baby Child Care business as our volumes underperformed expectations.
As it relates to the reconciliation of our volume in the quarter versus our share I mean there's a lot of factors that affect those I'm sure you know.
I mean our mix was positive and so that helped us from a share standpoint but other than that we really haven't got the analytics yet to unpack everything that happened from a volume standpoint.
So some part of it's trade inventory some part of it's consumer household inventory et cetera.
LLC</strong> But the reduction in diaper count does it have an impact on your volume growth or in the way you measure volume growth or not? No because we're measuring thousands of diapers in our volume count.
But if you think about it consumers buying a package with 7% fewer diapers in it.
And so on average in their home their household inventory drops.
But usually you'd say maybe about half of that and based on historical count reductions would be the impact that you'd have in the period that you did the cut reduction because if you said "Okay on average consumer's got a half a bag in their household that bag has 7% fewer diapers so half of that would be 3.5." But this quarter we had a bigger volume drop and so part of that was about the count change and probably part of it was mix some part of it was retail or inventory changes.
It's hard to digest which piece of that exactly took place here.
LLC</strong> Let me phrase it differently then.
What is your assumption for underlying diaper growth or contraction in North America going into 2012 down 2% down 3% because of the lower birth rate? What is the industry growing at or declining at? If you looked at full year 2011 it was down 4%.
And I would expect it to be less negative than that in 2012.
So down 2% is probably a reasonable expectation.
At this time we have no further questioners in the queue.
All right.
Thanks David.
We'll wrap up with a closing comment from Tom.
Okay.
Well once again we're not satisfied with our 2011 performance.
We're going to get back on track in 2012 and have another year where we successfully implement our Global Business Plan.
Thank you for your support at Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first speaker Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call: Mark will begin with a review of our first quarter results; Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and our full year outlook; and we'll finish as usual with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our website.
Now before we begin let me remind you we'll be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of forward-looking statements.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to adjusted results and outlook both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
For further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see today's news release.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines: first we delivered organic sales growth of 6%.
It was highlighted by 13% growth in K-C International; second we generated strong improvements in both our adjusted gross and operating margins as well as double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share; and third we reinvested significantly behind our brands with higher levels of strategic marketing and R&amp;D investment.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales increased 4% to $5.2 billion.
Organic sales rose 6% driven by higher net selling prices of 3% increased sales volumes of 2% and favorable mix of 1%.
On the other hand lost sales in connection with our pulp and tissue restructuring as well as changes in foreign currency rates each reduced sales by 1%.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Adjusted gross margin was 33.2%.
That's up 250 basis points year-on-year.
The improvement was driven by organic sales growth and $60 million of FORCE cost savings.
On an adjusted basis first quarter operating profit rose 12% with an operating margin of 14%.
That's up 90 basis points compared to the prior year.
Between-the-line spending increased versus last year including a $45 million step-up in strategic marketing to support our product innovations and targeted growth initiatives.
Additionally administrative and research spending increased as we continue to build capabilities to support future growth.
First quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.24 as compared to $1.09 last year.
The improvement came despite lower net income from equity companies.
And in terms of the tax rate our adjusted effective rate for the quarter was 29.3%.
That was similar to the year-ago quarter.
We continue to expect our full year rate to be in the range of 30% to 32%.
Cash provided by operations in the first quarter was solid at $585 million.
That's up nicely from $250 million in the prior year.
The increase was driven by lower pension contributions and higher cash earnings.
So our balance sheet and cash generation remain strong and we continue to allocate our capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
In February we announced our 40th consecutive annual increase in the dividend.
The 6% increase should help us maintain our top-tier dividend payout ratio in the CPG space.
In addition during the first quarter we repurchased 6.3 million shares of KMB stock at a cost of $460 million.
We continue to expect full year share repurchases of $900 million to $1.1 billion.
Altogether full year share repurchases plus dividend payments should total at least $2 billion returned to shareholders for the second consecutive year.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 9% with volumes up 6% and net selling prices advancing 3%.
Volume performance benefited from strong growth in K-C International including double-digit growth in each of our major regions.
In addition our European business delivered broad-based growth in the quarter.
The increase in net selling prices was driven by K-C International as well as our Infant Care and Baby Wipes businesses in North America.
I'm encouraged by the price realization in our North American Diaper business which as you know is a key focus for us this year.
First quarter Personal Care operating margins of 16.9% were 90 basis points below the prior year.
Nonetheless our margins did improve 150 basis points sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This bodes well for our expectation that full year 2012 Personal Care margins will be similar to the 2011 full year average.
Turning to Consumer Tissue.
Organic sales were up more than 2% net selling prices rose 4% and product mix was favorable by 1 point while organic volumes fell about 2%.
Price realization was excellent in both North America and across K-C International.
Consumer Tissue operating margins rose 410 basis points versus last year.
And I was really pleased to see that our global tissue teams continue to capture the benefits from our strategies to improve revenue realization and drive cost savings.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other.
Organic sales were up about 5%.
The increase was driven by improved volumes of 3% higher net selling prices of 2% and slightly favorable mix.
Volumes were up high-single digits in K-C International while North American and European volumes were up low-single digits.
Operating margins of 15.7% were up 220 basis points versus last year.
That was driven by benefits from sales growth and cost savings.
And lastly our Health Care organic sales were up 4% driven by volume growth.
Medical supply volumes rose mid-single digits led by growth in exam gloves and surgical products.
In addition medical device volumes advanced low-single digits with solid growth in our airway management business.
Operating margins of 13.1% were in line with last year.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth that was led by K-C International.
We delivered improved margins and earnings per share and we're reinvesting in the business to support our growth strategies.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll share my perspectives on our first quarter and I'll focus in on K-C International and then I'll briefly recap our outlook for the year.
So let's start with the first quarter.
Our results were very good.
We're off to somewhat of a better start to the year than we planned 3 months ago and that's mostly due to better top line growth in K-C International.
Mark's already reviewed the key financials for the quarter.
So let me just add that I'm encouraged by our top line growth by our gross margin improvement and by the investments we were able to make behind our brands.
And then finally we had a terrific bottom line performance.
So we got more work to do and the comparisons will get tougher as the year progresses but I'm very optimistic about the state of our business coming out of the first quarter.
Since K-C International is a key part of our overall growth strategy I thought it'd be helpful on this call to share some of the details about the actions that we're taking and the results that we're delivering in this business.
So first quarter organic sales growth in K-C International was 13%.
And that was highlighted by an 18% organic growth in Personal Care.
Now some of you may know this business is now larger than our Personal Care business in North America.
So we got scale and we got terrific growth prospects in this business.
We continue to deliver strong results in our key geographic priorities.
In China for example organic sales grew more than 45% in the first quarter.
And Huggies diapers have now expanded into nearly 80 cities and we're in the process of launching a new diaper-pant in this market.
In Russia our organic Personal Care sales are up about 25% and that included benefits from the Huggies diaper upgrade we began supporting in the first quarter.
In Latin America our organic sales increased by nearly 25% and that included 20% growth in Brazil where we're launching Intimates Explosion which is a premium feminine care line extension that's very similar to the U by Kotex launch that we've had going in the U.S.
From a product standpoint we continue to drive strong growth in our biggest Personal Care businesses in K-C International.
In fact in the first quarter organic sales were up 20% at infant care and more than 10% in feminine care.
But I think it's also important to note that we're making good progress with some of our smaller investment businesses in K-C International.
For example we had organic sales in adult care grew 25% in the quarter.
And baby wipes were up about 20% in the quarter.
In the past these 2 businesses were largely North American.
And now we're starting to make them truly global and we're leveraging our strong brands the favorable demographic trends and the investments that we've made behind these areas over time.
If you look elsewhere in KCI we saw good growth in our K-C Professional business in the emerging markets.
In first quarter organic sales for KCP increased 10% within KCI and that included 20% growth in Latin America.
And so we expect KCP's momentum in emerging markets to continue as we make strategic investments where you see industrialization and economic development occur.
And lastly our Consumer Tissue business in K-C International continues to drive revenue realization improved mix and cost savings.
Our teams delivered a solid step-up in margins in the first quarter and that further built on the progress that they made in 2011.
So that's just a little bit of a deep dive into our K-C International business.
Overall our strategies are working our categories are healthy and we continue to be very optimistic about our prospects for this business.
Now before turning to the outlook let me just touch briefly on our market positions in the U.S.
While the U.S.
market is very competitive we're in solid shape overall from a share standpoint.
Our market shares are up or even with the year-ago period in 5 of our 8 consumer categories.
And that's true in 7 of 8 if you look at it sequentially compared to last quarter.
So our businesses in the U.S.
remain fundamentally strong and we've got more innovation coming to further improve the health of our brands.
So now let's look -- move to the outlook.
Regarding the global economy our views are similar to or perhaps slightly better than what we talked to you about in January.
We continue to expect that conditions will remain healthy in emerging markets overall and we're not seeing any slowdown in our categories at this point.
In Venezuela where we had a solid first quarter results are likely to soften a little bit going forward given the price controls that recently have gone into effect.
In the U.S.
the economic environment seems to be improving rather modestly.
As a result we aren't planning for a big pickup in market demand in the near term and we expect the baby and child care categories to remain soft.
And finally in Europe we expect the marketplace to remain challenging although through the first quarter our European team is off to a solid start on executing its 2012 plan.
So in this environment we'll continue to pursue our targeted growth initiatives.
We'll leverage our strong brands and we'll continue to bring innovation to the marketplace.
In K-C International we'll continue to expand diaper-pants premium fem care and adult care offerings into more markets.
In North America we have several launches currently underway or that will happen in the near term and that includes our Super Premium Depend Briefs the latest fashion execution on Huggies diapers new U by Kotex products some health care pain management offerings and several new K-C Professional innovations.
To support our brands and growth initiatives we'll continue to increase strategic marketing and research and development spending at a faster rate than sales will grow this year.
Now we mentioned in this morning's news release we reconfirmed our key planning assumptions from January.
In terms of cost inflation our total expectation for the year is unchanged.
Although most oil-based costs are tracking a little higher than we expected that will be likely offset by somewhat more favorable pulp costs.
Nonetheless most commodity costs are expected to rise sequentially from first quarter levels so we'll continue to focus on cost savings and revenue realization strategies.
In short we're executing the plan we laid out 3 months ago.
And we're continuing to target full year adjusted earnings in the range of $5 to $5.15 per share.
So to summarize our first quarter performance was encouraging.
We're well-positioned to deliver on our full year 2012 plan and we remain convinced that our Global Business Plan will continue to drive improved shareholder value.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll be happy to begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A few questions.
It was actually helpful that you spent some time on the KCI business and then particularly in Personal Care wanted to get a sense from you guys of how much of the growth is distribution growth or driven by distributive gain versus sort of same-store sales.
Because that will tell us a little bit about the sustainability of that growth rate.
And I guess a subpart of that question is just around the margin impact of that growth in the emerging markets.
I know it used to be that your margins there were pretty darn close to the developed world so love to get a sense of that as well please.
Yes good questions.
I'd say -- we would say we took share in most of the emerging markets at the kind of growth levels that we saw.
In a market like Latin America for example where we're up 25% in Personal Care I mean we've gotten most of the distribution in place that we need there.
So there's some places in Brazil that we're expanding.
In the Northeast that's sort of new territory for us.
But other than that we're pretty fully penetrated.
Russia we've got great distribution in and around the Moscow region but we're expanding more to the East and into the balance of the country.
But we also would say we had some share gains behind innovation there.
China was the one that was -- is a big number.
And I think we went from I think 72 cities at the end of last year to 80 cities now.
So part of it is distribution-related.
But we also have moved into Tier 3.
So we're expanding our offering and we're just in the process of launching diaper-pants.
So there's probably a little bit of pipeline fill there.
So yes some share growth but a lot of innovation and some distribution expansion.
And it's tough to break those down but I'd say probably in China in particular was more -- we were expanding into new categories and new markets and Latin America was probably more of share growth.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just -- before I get to the follow-up on the margins part.
So if you were to say kind of the Personal Care business 19% I think is the organic growth number you think 2/3 same-store sales-ish 1/3 distribution gain is that a fair gut check? I'd be guessing.
I would say it doesn't sound wildly out of bounds but we don't have good data to really track it at that level of detail.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and then I had a second part of that question...
Yes on the margin front we saw some good margin improvement from KCP as well.
So we saw double-digit profit growth in many of these markets as well.
So good cost savings performance good price realization probably nearly half of the price realization in dollar terms from a total corporate standpoint was in K-C International.
So yes no they're off to a good start this year on top line and bottom line.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears a little bit to free cash flow.
And I've asked this question before but I just want to continue to get comfortable maybe I'm just too old fashioned about this stuff but your free cash flow is again less than the dividend and stock repurchase or basically the payment to shareholders.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how I can feel comfortable with that especially when you're not getting -- we're not being hit as much by restructuring charges turning to cash.
So how should we feel about that? Okay.
I'll let Mark talk to that one.
Ali we look at it on an annual basis.
So our cash flow isn't going to be consistent.
It'll -- our operating cash flow will grow over the year.
We knew we were going to come out of the gate strong with share repurchases.
We were out of the market in the fourth quarter so we wanted to start strong.
We've got about half of the low end of our share repurchases in the bank already in the first quarter.
Built a little bit of debt but that'll come down as the year progresses.
For the full year I think you'll see probably $3 billion of operating cash flow with about 1/3 going to capital spending 1/3 going to dividends and 1/3 going to share repurchases.
So for the full year we're not looking to increase significantly our debt.
To back up strategically over the last 10 years I think in '07 and then last year we made a choice to increase our debt.
But other than that we're funding share repurchases.
And our goal is to fund them out of available operating cash flow.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question if you would is around the increased marketing spend $45 million this quarter for example.
Can you give us a sense of how you prioritize that? So I guess what I'm getting at is how much of that is spent in the emerging markets to grow the brand to grow education et cetera versus new innovations in the U.S.
versus competing in Western Europe? Because it looked like it was somewhat competitive.
How do you break that up? I know you mentioned your innovation and other projects but how do you prioritize that spend? Yes each of our teams around the world we really own the P&amp;Ls on a geographic basis.
So they'd put together a plan.
They'd work with our global brand teams to make sure that we're resourcing the plan in the right way and that we're looking at the relative ROI in each of these markets and the opportunity there.
We have a series of global planning sessions where we work through and say "Yes this one makes sense this one you need to go do a little bit more work" and rinse through that as just part of our ongoing business planning process.
And so as you can imagine it's a mixture of some center view of the market and some local view of the opportunity.
And those usually come together in a business plan that then we go execute.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So no so I understand the process but when you roll it all up obviously you kind of look through and say "Are we tackling the right stuff?" So again how much of that can you tell?  Or do you not maybe do this in the end these emerging markets versus developed world versus defending those kind of buckets? Yes we do do it at that level but there isn't a big calculator at corporate that's got that level of scientific view.
So you look at China and say the opportunity is huge.
And so the question is how can we go even faster? Then you know that -- you don't look at a 1-year payback and compare that around the world.
It's what's your relative competitive position what's the strength of your innovation what's it going to take to communicate that message to the consumer.
And you look at those opportunities and decide which of the opportunity set that you have balances against your strategy and attack those.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Can you comment on why you're holding to your guidance and what kind of deceleration your guidance assumes in the second quarter as opposed to the second half.
But I mean you beat so much and I know that the gross margin you've already said the gross margin will be up less in the second half than the first.
But I think you indicated that the first quarter was an upside surprise to you too.
So why hold to this guidance? Yes I think -- we're 3 months into the year.
So it's relatively early in the plan.
There's still lots of things to worry about and lots of competitive activity happening in the marketplace.
If you look at the earnings beat $0.03 of it was really related to a little lower effective rate.
That was in our guidance for the full year.
It's just that the individual settlement happened in the first quarter.
So if you looked at it from that standpoint on a normalized tax rate we're not that far ahead of what we said.
And so I still think it's the right level of guidance.
If we're sitting here 3 months from now and things -- the momentum continues we'll take another look at that and give you an update at that point.
You just cited -- or said that there was a lot of competitive activity out there.
Could you tell us which category and which region you think competition will be heating up? Yes.
Well sure I mean in fem care P&amp;G has got a major relaunch coming in the U.S.
In diapers they've got a relaunch coming midyear and they've got a big Olympic program in the third quarter.
They're going to drive that globally.
So yes there's plenty of stuff to react to and we are off to a good start.
We're encouraged by that.
We're certainly going to keep -- I mean my goal Alice is to deliver terrific results and not necessarily be the most accurate forecaster that you've ever had.
Okay.
And then my last question is to circle back to the emerging regions what percentage of your revenues in emerging regions comes from baby care roughly? Paul have you got the split of that? Yes we don't break out precisely but if you added up infant care and child care it would be at least half.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with the CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Incredible acceleration in growth fourth to the first quarter.
I'm just sort of looking at my notes from K-C International and the fourth quarter was only up 7.
And so again just trying to get behind what Alice was getting at do you think this was an anomaly this kind of 19% growth in those markets? And then also just to understand because I think Europe was very very soft in the fourth quarter so can you tell us what programs are working to turn that around? And I think price was down 5% in Europe but your volume growth of 11 more than offset that.
So just helping us understand if any of this is one-off and why it wouldn't be sustainable.
Yes sure.
No I think the first quarter is probably a little easier comp for us.
So we're -- the growth rate looked a little bit better from that standpoint.
But we had a little lighter first quarter last year.
So that's probably part of it.
I'd say in emerging markets the momentum has been pretty good.
And so we're seeing that continue and even accelerate a bit.
We've got more investment behind it more innovation happening in the first quarter than we had in the fourth quarter.
And we'd expect that pace to continue as the year rolls out.
It's also encouraging to see some of our investment businesses like adult care and baby wipes that really have been predominantly North American businesses.
We're investing in those.
We're putting the right resources behind them.
And we're seeing those really start to take off in emerging markets.
And I think we're still very early days on that front.
And in Europe what we're seeing right now is it's a very competitive market and Tesco's had some challenges in their home market in the U.K.
They're wanting to promote and drive foot traffic heavily.
That's part of what helped our business in the diaper side in particular in the first quarter.
Tissue is a little soft in Europe.
And as we were trying to take a little bit of price increase and the category wasn't moving.
So we lost a little bit of momentum on Andrex in the first quarter but are looking to get that back.
Southern Europe particularly Italy you've got retailers advertising private label pricing right now and really talking about the economic crisis and how consumers have to be cautious.
So there's a lot more promotion spending in the marketplace.
And that's showing up in some of the negative price.
And we're getting some positive volume lift from that which is good.
But it comes at a cost.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you mentioned your non-branded business in Europe.
Do you supply some of that private label? We have some.
A small amount of our sales -- less than 10% of our sales in Europe is private label.
And we picked up a couple of additional contracts and you saw that in some of the volume numbers in the quarter.
But not a big factor in our overall effort at this stage.
Research Division</strong> So the bigger question for me just taking a longer-term view is the birthrate declines in U.S.
and Europe.
And is there any chance that you see that the volume actually picks up in these markets without the birthrate recovering? I think that if the birthrate doesn't recover I think that'll be tough because consumers are pretty much using 5 diapers a day.
And if they don't have babies being born that's going to fall off.
I think as we look at the U.S.
birthrate at least and look at some of the underlying causals being employment rate household formation you're even seeing it in some of the housing data that's starting to emerge there are some reasons to believe that the birthrate will turn from being slightly negative to slightly positive later this year.
The category in the U.S.
will still be down a couple of percent just because of the fact that over the last several years the birthrate's been down.
And so as those children are still in diapers this year we won't have the benefit of their participation in the category.
But we would think going forward the birthrate starts to turn neutral or slightly positive.
Again the big growth story is going to be K-C International where the category penetration is quite low and there's a big opportunity there as the category builds out.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Just a last question in the U.S.
did you gain share then in all of your major categories this quarter? We were up in 5 out of 8 -- up or flat in 5 out of 8 year-over-year.
And if you look sequentially we were up or flat in 7 out of 8.
And so in diapers in particular we were relatively flat sequentially and year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with the Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So the first question is who thought it was a good idea to name a fem care product Explosion? Bill they don't let accountants like me name anything.
We have a whole army of marketing people that do a fantastic job of that.
And I'm sure in Portuguese it's a fantastic expression that consumers love.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was there any help from the leap year this year in the quarter? No not that I know of.
Somebody pointed that out to me and I said "Oh yes it was leap year this year." I don't know.
We probably had an extra shipping day somewhere but I don't think that was a big enough factor to drive anything significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a last one on the Personal Care business is there any way to sort of disaggregate the margin softness between just a mix shift both between emerging markets and U.S.
markets and the slowdown in training pants and then just commodity inflation? So is there just like a rough metric to kind of see what's driving that margin contraction? Yes although you look at it sequentially and the margin was up nicely.
And so a good chunk of the sequential improvement was price realization particularly in North America.
And a good chunk of the commodity cost the oil-based inflation did hit Personal Care a good -- a fair amount of that in emerging markets.
So they were able to get price to offset some of that so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean it's not -- it doesn't sound like it's that material the geographic mix shift and then the training pants mix shift? No I would say there was very modest if any impact from a geographic mix shift.
Yes commodities was the big factor.
Yes.
Commodities and price realization were the big factors.
Yes.
In fact though our margins in K-C International were up significantly year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Bill (sic) [Gail] Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Sticking on International for a second it looked like K-C International tissue volumes even excluding restructuring were pretty weak.
Is there anything one-off there? Is there something that we should be like looking at or thinking about? Yes what you saw there was positive price really positive mix and negative volume.
And part of that is how we count unit volume.
So as we de-sheet and put shelfs is one way we get price.
We show that as positive price and negative volume.
And so we've been driving that business to drive mix shift and sell more premium products and move from one-ply commodity to two-ply premium around the world.
And you really saw that come through with the numbers.
So it really sort of belies the progress we're making in terms of consumer share by those statistics.
But we've been doing it that way from a -- consistently.
And so we just try to be transparent on what's actually happening.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And kind of sticking on demand and volumes you mentioned in the release seeing some improvement in your washroom business in North America.
Can you give a little bit more color? And was that trend consistent through the quarter getting stronger or weaker as you exited the quarter? Yes I mean I think KCP usually starts out a little slow just because some distributors will take a little bit more inventory before the end of the year just so they've got -- to tide them over.
And so -- but I'd say things have been picking up throughout the quarter.
And we had some distributors in recently and they were pretty bullish on their outlook this year in the U.S.
market.
So they were talking about high single-digit low double-digit growth pretty broad geographic distribution in the U.S.
You're starting to see it in office buildings and lodging and some of the occupancy rates are ticking up a bit.
I'd say manufacturing is an area that's been a little slow that's starting to pick up as you're seeing more employment there but still some room to go there.
And we've had some innovation that we're out talking about as well.
So part of it has been positive as we're out talking about a healthy workplace and with some new dispenser programs and things like that in that market.
So we're feeling pretty good about KCP.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of quick questions on inflation.
Can you give a sense of what you're looking at for natural gas? I guess it was $3.00 to $3.50 last quarter and I'm assuming that's changed.
Yes I mean our outlook for it is in the what $2.00 and change -- $2.25.
And we're partly hedged.
As you know we were probably 60% hedged last quarter.
And we've got hedges in place on a rolling basis for the next several quarters.
So we don't get the full benefit of that.
But for every full dollar per MMBTU that gas changes it's about $16 million in operating profit in North America and -- just from a rule of thumb standpoint.
Before any impact from hedging.
Right before hedging.
Just on a raw number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess your real inflation was coming from kind of other raw materials.
Can you talk about kind of -- I know you said you expect inflation to be up sequentially but just what that trend was.
Is that just recognizing increases through the quarter and things have stabilized? Or are you still seeing inputs within that category still rising? Yes I mean most of the ROI [ph] stuff is polymer.
And you're seeing it in some of the shortages of things that are popping up.
You saw it in the gasoline market in the first quarter and it's just been real volatile.
And I think if you look at a lot of the resin pricing that we buy that's probably been the biggest single driver and expect that to tick up a bit in the second quarter.
Pulp is expected to move up.
We've seen a couple of moves already.
That'll probably be the biggest dollar impact on some of the sequential changes.
And there's a question will -- there's some expected pulp capacity in Brazil that's supposed to start up later this year.
Whether or not that happens is still I think weighing on the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But pulp I mean we're starting to see Asia kind of roll off right now.
There's certainly a lot of the capacity coming on over a 6-month period starting later this year.
Reports indicate that discounts are up.
I mean your forecast continues to be even though it's down significantly above where we are year to date.
I mean is there really anything you're seeing in terms of securing supply that...
Well we saw -- we've seen eucalyptus price went up I think it was $70 a ton in the market last month and they're talking about another price increase coming up in May or June.
So there is some upward movement on pulp price.
On the other hand we'd say secondary fiber price has been a little softer than we expected.
So we'll see.
A lot of it depends on Asian buying and what happens there.
And if the Chinese are not in the market you could see a little sloppier pulp market in the second quarter.
We'll see.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just talking about the diaper business in the U.S.
and last quarter we saw a lot more promotional spending out there and it didn't really kind of drop to volumes.
I guess can you just put a little color around what you saw the last 3 months on the competitive side even from -- on the retail side as well? I know the trends don't look all that great but I'm just wondering if this kind of came in line with your expectation.
And do you see more the focus on price realization going forward as opposed to a little bit more price investment coming back as we saw in the fourth quarter? As we talked on the last call some of the activity in the fourth quarter we believe was related to our launch of Diaper-Pants and our competitors were responding to protect as they would typically do in a major launch situation as we would do if it was the other way around.
And so some of that rolled off.
And in the first quarter we were pleased to see where we got really no price realization in North America in the fourth quarter we had a couple of points of price realization in the first quarter.
So that's a positive sign.
The price increase appears to be in place across all the major retail channels in North America.
There's still a fair amount of promotional activity out there but it is a reduced rate from where it was in the fourth quarter.
So we feel pretty optimistic about how it moves from here.
And there's lots -- we got innovative products in the marketplace with our mainline Huggies.
We got more innovation coming so does P&amp;G.
So -- but the good news for CEO mom is that there'll be lots of news in the diaper category over the next couple of quarters and then that makes it that much more challenging for private label and others in the category.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about training pants? I mean that seems to be one of those categories that's kind of taken the hit over the last couple of years.
How do you re-engage the consumer? I know we're probably not there yet.
We have to wait until birthrates go up.
But how do you kind of manage that business right now? And what do retailers talk to you about the shelf space that you have? Well I mean it's a terrific category still and it's a very good category for the retailer.
Now the reality of it is we have 3 years of a declining birthrate that totaled close to 8% decline in live births in the U.S.
That's essentially piled up in the training pant category because that's about where toilet training occurs is around age between 2.5 and 3.5.
And so we've gotten good visibility on that with our retail customers.
We're driving lots of innovation.
We're launching some new products around that space.
We got a terrific GoodNites business that's in that space in the aisle.
We're launching a new GoodNites bed mat that'll be out there for overnight use for children in that space.
And so I think while everybody would like it to grow faster they also understand the reality of what's happened in the demographics for the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Consumer Tissue with the U.S.
just given where pulp prices have been have you seen any changes from your competitors out there in terms of trying to take down price or get a little bit more promotional there? Not really.
I mean I think the pricing has gone in and the -- as high as pulp got we never really even fully recovered the highest level of pulp price in the finished product selling prices.
And so I think there's a sense that we're still probably behind from where we were.
So I think so far again that market has been relatively rational as well in the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question was a clarification.
I think Mark you were talking about the Personal Care margins.
Did you say they were going to be equal to kind of 2011 levels? Equal to 2011 full year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Full year.
So you're talking just -- so it would be a slight decline from where you ended the first quarter which I think you were...
I'd say ballpark we were around 17 for the full year.
I would think we'll be around 17 as the right target for 2012.
We would say we're in that ballpark.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Jason's pricing questions actually.
So pricing in U.S.
facial tissues number [ph] in Q4 private label kind of hasn't come around.
Are they near that now there so pricing's in line in that category? Yes I mean I think so.
I'm not -- we took price in facial tissue through sheet count change.
And so it is kind of a complicated question.
So I'm not sure you'd see it at every account but we have seen it in some accounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other piece also following up from Q4 was the pack count change in diapers in North America I think hurt volumes.
And you'd expected kind of the household like the pantry inventories to recover in Q1.
So was that a little bit of a benefit?  Because the volumes sequentially in North America -- it sounded like Personal Care's were a little bit better.
Yes that's probably right.
We talked about that in the last call where we had -- we took the full hit of the pantry low.
And we usually don't even see that much of the pantry destocking effect of lower count.
And so probably our volume was more reflective of what's actually happening in the category in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Or is it better maybe to look at sort of an average of Q4 and Q1 or not really? It really is more Q1 you think is reflective of category.
Yes I would think that most of the pantry and retailer ordering pattern stuff should be flushed through by now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and then the final thing which is paper towels you mentioned distribution gains.
So was that Viva in particular regaining some distribution or is it Scott? A little bit of both.
Actually both brands had a pretty solid first quarter.
So that was encouraging to see.
Research Division</strong> And what do you think is driving it? Because I feel like Viva -- there was when you go back it was a bit like you guys were pushing on the revenue realization this great high-margin high-priced product you have at the time when unfortunately consumers were going other direction.
So do you think regaining shelf space there is any sign of kind of confidence on the retailers? Well I think shelf space I think as you know many of the retailers some large ones in particular had gone to a much more streamlined shelf set.
I think much of that has been rolled back as the consumers wanted to have a bit more selection.
We've had a terrific creative campaign with Mike Rowe behind Viva and that's really resonated well and driven a lot of interest in the brand.
We've had some innovation in news as well and that -- all of the collection of that has led to better volume and results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my final question was just on K-C Professional because you did mention on -- that growing in international was a big focus.
So about to the degree you can talk about it like ballpark how big or small is that business today? How do you really go about expanding that business? Is it kind of the high-margin very big-city-focused? And how much do you expect that to play into the growth story over the next couple of years for that business? Yes I mean we're already in a lot of markets already.
But I'd say if you looked at Russia China would be -- and maybe India would be the new growth platforms over time that we'd be looking at where we're maybe not as well represented.
Latin America we've got a pretty good-size business but we're really putting more dedicated resource against it and driving it.
I don't know Paul if you've got a geographic split of that in terms of emerging markets versus developed markets but...
Yes Lauren if you look at total K-C Professional about 25% to 30% is in KCI.
Yes and so that would compare to 37% of the total company.
So it's a little underweight.
And on Health Care it would be even more underweight.
So that just gives you some sort of perspective on it.
Research Division</strong> And the bulk of it sounds like then is in Latin America at this point.
Latin America will be the biggest piece reflecting the strong footprint we have in Latin America.
We've got a lot more tissue in Latin America and that tends to be a good host to get some of our KCP business started.
But we've got a terrific lineup of safety products and wipers that we're taking to global manufacturers around the world.
So we can go to Ford or we can go to any other big company and say "We can give you the exact same wiper solution to drive a consistent manufacturing process in every one of your facilities around the world." There is really no other company in this space that can do that today.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple quick ones.
First of all the $45 million in incremental marketing spending can you break that out international versus U.S.? Yes if you look at -- let me see if I've got that here handy.
It was roughly about 1/3 in KCI and another...
Yes it's pretty proportional to the size of the business.
So you'd say KCI got at least its fair share and probably Personal Care was a little heavier than tissue which would reflect the launch of innovation both in North America and in emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and then the 1% hit on the top line from the lost sales the -- whatever product line exits you're doing is there any way to quantify the impact on the tissue margins that came from that initiative specifically as opposed to commodity prices or other things? Well I think the total cost savings from all of our restructuring in the quarter was about $5 million.
And so within that I think some of the advantage of that would be reflected.
So not big.
And it was about a 1-point drag overall for the lost sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
And then my last question -- and I don't mean to sort of beat a dead horse here but just going back to the diaper market in the U.S.
and looking at sort of the pricing trends and the market share trends and that's the only category where it seems that fairly consistently but particularly here in the first quarter 2012 private label is gaining I think 200 basis points of market share.
And so I'm wondering if the spending that you're doing the innovations you're trying to bring to market -- I mean I look at Procter's shares and even with Dry Max and hey it was poorly executed whatever.
But all the innovation that both of you guys are bringing to the market both of your shares are still way off their peak and yet private label is way up.
So is there...
I think you might be looking at 3-outlet data because if we look at all outlet data I'd say private label shares were down 1.1 points sequentially and they're down 6/10 of a point year-over-year in infant care and this would be  diapers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that may do it because I'm just looking at the Nielsen data.
So if a -- data is different in Wal-Mart that's good to know.
Well that would reflect Wal-Mart club dollar which wouldn't be all in your database.
And so...
This category in particular is far over-indexed to non-measured outlets.
Yes I think probably the Nielsen database may only be 1/3 or less of the total category.
Research Division</strong> So the risk of any price pullback or anything like that or increased promotional spending on the diaper business not in the future for you.
Well I think we would like to.
We watch the relative price gaps versus private label.
Usually there's about a 6-month lag between when price goes in on branded products and when private label pricing takes place.
So that's something that we will be watching to see what happens in the second quarter if there is a price movement in private label or not.
And so -- but I think it looks like at this point across the branded players the price increase has gone in across all of the major retail outlets.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back just to make sure I understand on the EM Personal Care discussion.
It sounds like you're suggesting that that level of growth in Personal Care in KCI is sustainable.
Am I getting that right? Well I mean I'll tell you it was a very good quarter.
So it's been above where we've been.
But I also think we've got an aggressive plan put together.
And it was a little ahead of plan but it wasn't a lot ahead of our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then I guess the marketing spending I was wondering if you could try to just break out a little bit the cadence or the pace of what the year-on-year incremental investment's going to look like and if you can layer that into what the innovation pace looks like.
Because I understand that Q1 has been a big innovation quarter.
That's obviously going to continue through the year.
But how do we think about the year-on-year change in marketing as we go through? Yes if I look at that strategic A&amp;P relative to sales we -- if you go back to like 2010 we were at a higher rate than we were in 2011.
And if you look at our first quarter numbers we're kind of coming back up close to those 2010 levels.
And so I'd say that's probably the right -- more medium-term aspiration is how do we get back on the trend line to have a P&amp;L where we're delivering innovative margin accretive growth and are able to reinvest in strategic A&amp;P to build brands around the world.
And so I'd expect to see as we said on our January call a faster level of growth in A&amp;P this year than sales growth.
And the first quarter was certainly representative of that.
But you will have a pretty strong first half spend rate and then we'll see how things progress in the second half and give you a better look at that in July.
Research Division</strong> And one last one I actually caught a piece of your interview on CNBC this morning.
And I know you mentioned it a little in the presentation here but you sounded reasonably optimistic about the channel.
And I think you might have said something to the order of sales got better over the last month or the retailers looked more optimistic over the last month.
Can you -- did you say that? Yes they were asking about the U.S.
economy and we've been with some KCP distributors recently that were North American-based.
And these are folks that would sell to medium-size businesses would be in the lodging office supply even some manufacturing space.
And these are some of our best customers.
So these are folks that are really doing great things.
And they're expecting high single-digit double-digit growth had a solid start to the year.
And so they were more optimistic.
I think the question was related to "Are you concerned about the U.S.
economy?" And certainly there's plenty of things to worry about.
But there's also some signs of growth that are happening here.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know you had said something earlier in your comments about Venezuela and I didn't quite catch what you said.
Can you comment again whether you're affected by the price controls there? And also can you remind us what your percentage of revenue and profit is in Venezuela and just the philosophy about what do you do in this situation? Do you just kind of suffer lower profitability or just what's the philosophy going forward? Yes that's great.
Venezuela is a very low single-digit percentage of our sales and profits.
I think last year we announced it was 1% of sales and it was 3% of profits.
We're in that ballpark kind of range is our expectation as to where that can be.
And price control went in.
And we were on the list.
We've worked through with our customers and with the government on how that's going to be executed in the marketplace.
And our team is in the process of -- or it's in place.
It was effective April 1.
And so our primary concern is to make sure that we can serve our consumers and our customers.
So we want to make sure moms have diapers and our consumers have fem care products and bath tissue and facial tissue and all the things that they need to take care of their family.
And we want to do that in a way that complies with the rules that the Venezuelan government has passed down.
So I think we said in my remarks that the first quarter was a little bit more positive than we're going to see in the remaining 3 quarters but it's still going to be a profitable business for us.
And it's one that we're managing carefully.
Obviously getting foreign exchange to be able to pay the bills for imported raw materials and for imported finished product is key and that supply of foreign exchange has been uneven at times.
And so that'll be a key to our back half plan so that we can continue to operate the business successfully.
Our next question will come from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Just to follow up on Venezuela what is the average price decline you have to absorb? And how strictly do you think the authorities are going to enforce the regulations? I think the price change varied by category.
In some cases it was double digits.
In some cases it was less than that.
And I think like anywhere else we operate Connie I mean our goal is to fully comply with whatever the rules are in the country.
And if we can't operate there and make money then we'll re-evaluate why we're there.
But we want to make sure that we're complying.
We assume that the government will put compliance measures in place.
But I think our goal is to make sure we're in compliance.
And then we'll let somebody else worry about if they can get away with playing games with the price list.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions here.
The first is if I look at your raw material guidance it's dollar-based as opposed to unit-based.
So the volume appears to be coming in better.
You seem to be relatively optimistic.
Can we read into it that better volumes with the same level of cost inflation implies a little bit more gross margin upside? So that's the first question.
And then the second just to sort of follow up on Wendy's question which is it seems as though the diaper business in particular is better suited to this channel fragmentation particularly in terms of online.
So I guess as we look at something like diapers.com which has a lower level of private label presence should we expect the branded competitors to take more share as the business moves to that channel? And then secondly it would seem as though if you don't get the consumer before she buys her first set of diapers you run the risk of losing her because you have fewer opportunities to switch her brand preference.
And I -- so is -- I guess I'm looking for some thoughts you have in terms of that channel dynamic.
Yes that's great.
Yes on your first question I'd say our growth isn't that much higher in our outlook than planned and I think we'd attribute the same level of overall inflation assumption to a significant change in margin.
I mean it probably would be 10 basis points or less kind of thing.
So broadly I'd say we're a little bit ahead of volume.
That should give us some leverage on the operating side.
Obviously if you're putting more high-cost materials through you'd have potentially more inflation.
But our inflation guidance for the year was plus or minus $50 million.
So we're pretty close to a neutral cost perspective from a inflation standpoint.
So I don't see a big gross margin impact relative to inflation materials related to our higher volume.
So on that side.
On the second question on the channel fragmentation issue and the growth of e-commerce and clearly I mean point-of-market entry is a key strategic entry point for the category.
So we want to own that in every channel.
And then obviously the subscription services for moms that are on diapers.com and Amazon and others you absolutely want to be a part of that.
You want to -- that's from a marketing standpoint.
A key strategy is to make sure you have the consumer signed up and you make it just an easy choice for her to want to buy your brand.
And so we're making sure we're focused on that and getting at least our fair share of consumers in that space.
And we're putting more resources against e-commerce both with our pure play e-commerce customers as well as with our bricks-and-mortar retailers that also have e-commerce activities to make sure we're getting our fair share of that growing channel.
I think there's also key events in a consumer's diapering experience around size change where they'll sometimes will try a competitive product.
And so we want to make sure we're relevant and have the right offer in place at those key moments as well.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that I mean is that a channel where you'd say the quality of sales goes higher again? Because it seems as though it's going to be less about the discounts and more about sort of being able to leverage your marketing spend.
So even if you have to spend more money online to attract her you'll spend less in terms of price promotion going forward.
Is that...
Yes absolutely.
You want to look at the total ROI of the whole channel including trade funding.
And so I think everybody's looking at it that way and making sure that -- and quite honestly moms are pretty savvy shoppers.
And you're finding more consumers than ever that are taking their smartphone to the store and scanning the bar code and finding out what the price is online relative to in the store.
And so there's greater price transparency of that on every category these days including ours.
Our next question will come from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I actually would like to go back to the 3 emerging market China Brazil and Russia that you highlighted.
You provided a growth rate in this quarter.
Wonder whether you have the growth rate for the fourth quarter.
I'm trying to assess this inflection point in growth.
And also if you don't have it basically I would like to understand even if you -- the horizontal growth versus the pipeline field right? Because it seems like you increased the number of cities in China by 10%.
And I understand that this 45% growth includes this pipeline field.
But at the same time you are going to have much greater -- 10% greater points of distribution theoretically.
So that would be the case of China.
In the case of Brazil you are mentioning that you already have an infrastructure but we also know that there was a wage increase in January.
To what extent this wage increase is boosting on the underlying category growth and that would be an explanation.
And also if you can help us understand also Russia.
You didn't say how many more distributions cities or distribution points you gained in Russia.
I'm just trying to understand again what is the new underlying growth in these 3 key emerging markets? If you can help us with that that would be great.
Yes I can give you a little bit of color about that Javier and I'd say the growth in all 3 is going to be a step up from where we were in the fourth quarter.
Paul may have more precise data but...
Yes I mean at a minimum they were all up double digits in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
So -- but it's up another gear from that.
And if I looked at the 3 of them I'd say in China it's probably more driven by new distribution but also going into new segments of the category.
So going -- adding a Tier 3 diaper which is the biggest segment in China we were really only there in the Super Premium area.
We've now gone into the mainline part of the category.
So that's -- it's not so much the new cities it's that we're now swimming in the widest part of the river here.
And so we've got more growth from that on top of the new cities and then adding some innovation like diaper pants.
So China is probably more -- we're expanding in other parts of the category and expanding geographically.
In Russia we had a improved -- diaper product improvement going in place.
And so that's probably more innovation-driven than new distribution-driven I would say.
And Brazil would probably be a similar story to Russia.
We've had some good innovation coming on fem care and diapers.
We are expanding into the northeast part of the country which is more new geography for us.
But I think the bigger part of the growth in Brazil is going to come from innovation than from geographic expansion.
LLC</strong> All these initiatives seems to me that they were known basically when you provided guidance at the beginning of the year.
And it seemed kind of like  growth rates to at least double in your largest key markets was surprising to us.
So it's just -- I'm just trying to see if there is any other improvement in the underlying growth rate of the market.
Because Brazil has been accelerated for a while China too.
So I wonder whether in addition to these initiatives that I would imagine you knew about them when you provided guidance if there is something else happening in the underlying market? Is it that the consumer in -- are emerging markets back after the slowdown in the past 2 quarters? Yes I think it's probably too early for us to really have enough good data and analytics to give you an accurate answer to that.
But I would also say the rise in consumerism across emerging markets has been an ongoing trend.
And despite what you might read about it if China is slowing down from 10% to 8% that's still a pretty aggressive growth rate.
And their incomes are improving.
And they're wanting more and more of the types of products that we make and sell in those markets.
LLC</strong> Yes but Brazil decelerated to 1% GDP growth.
And China is China but Brazil which is larger for you decelerated to 1% GDP growth in the fourth quarter.
That's why the question.
Finally the clarification on -- one clarification on the U.S and I know that everybody has been asking on this but -- and it still -- it seem unclear to me.
You basically said that your market share in the U.S.
is flat.
And at the same time you are growing -- your volume growth is mid- to high-single digits.
So does it mean that the category volume are declining 7.5%? Is that what shall we understand it? No.
Our volume was down mid single digits in the U.S.
and we realize price and toss that part of that.
And our share I think was up 3/10 of a point sequentially and it was down 2/10 of a point year-over-year by our all-outlet measure.
So that was flat [ph] overall.
Research Division</strong> But that would be infant care but you said that child care was down high-single digits.
Yes the child care the category is down and our volume was down high-single digits.
Our shares in child care were up 7/10 sequentially and down a couple of points year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
I just wanted to ask you about the higher marketing spend.
You mentioned the $45 million in the first quarter and if that's sort of a pace we should annualize to $180 million as being an increase that we should see for the full year.
I think that would probably be a little higher than expectation.
But we'd said it would grow faster than sales.
And we want to try to get it back on the trend line that we have been on through the 2010 numbers.
We took a little step back in 2011.
So you'll see a nice uptick at a faster pace than sales but maybe not quite to the level of multiplying by 4.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And are there any special strategies or at least any indications of what you plan to do as we get these 6 or 7 new private label machines starting up later this year and especially next year that are largely new people in the industry? And just your thoughts on how you are preparing for that.
Yes well I mean I think we're actually more optimistic about the overall tissue operating rate.
I mean there's been a lot of capacity that's gone out of the market including our Everett mill is now down.
And that was 175 000 tons that's out of the market.
We will be taking some capacity out of Chester.
Some of the other competitors have done so as well.
So we actually have seen the tissue operating rate be pretty high in the high 80s low 90s and would expect that to continue for a while.
And as we see the continued growth in the category as the ability to absorb a couple of new tissue machines a year and we haven't had that for a while.
So we're not as concerned about it.
I think we've got a -- in COTTONELLE we've got a differentiated branded offering with a good innovation plan.
And it's a lot tougher to make a product like that even as you bring on new thru-air dry capacity than you'd think.
Scott Tissue is also a differentiated sheet with a unique position and  strong loyal brand following.
And so we believe that one's well-positioned as well.
So we've got good strategies in place to continue to execute our plan and focus on driving that for the benefit of our consumers and our customers.
Got you.
And just 2 quick additional follow-ons Tom.
If you could -- I know that the Everett closure was quite substantial like a couple of hundred thousand tons.
Close to that.
Can you give us a feel for how much more it will be coming out just order of magnitude in tons in Chester.
And then switching gears you noted in the slides that your volumes in diapers in China were up 45%.
I believe that must be a year-over-year number which is phenomenal.
And could you talk a little bit about how much of that was the market and how much of that could have been market share? Yes.
On the first question we'll probably take one machine out of Chester and it'll be a smaller number by far than what was done at Everett.
So you can probably get the ballpark on that.
In China we talked about that a couple of times on the call where I mean I'd say a good chunk of it was us expanding into new segments of the category going into the more mainline part of the diaper category in China.
We've also expanded from probably 72 to 80 cities.
72 have been in the last year to 80 at the end of the first quarter.
And my guess is we also picked up some share.
But it's probably -- we're still a relatively small player in China overall.
We're getting to scale in the major cities that we've been in for a while.
And with the fuller lineup of products we'd expect to continue to drive that.
So we're enthusiastic about the progress so far.
At this time we have no further questioners in the queue.
All right thanks David.
We'll wrap up with a closing comment from Tom.
Well once again we're off to a great start and we're making the right investments to support the initiatives that we've talked about in our global business plan and we want to make sure that translates into terrific value for our shareholders.
So thank you for listening today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call: Mark will begin with a review of second quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on results through the first half of the year and also our full-year outlook.
We'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor Section of our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We'll also be referring to adjusted results and outlook this morning both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
For further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP please see this morning's news release.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we delivered organic sales growth of 5% as highlighted by 9% growth in K-C International.
Second we generated strong improvements in both adjusted gross and operating margins as well as double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
And third we reinvested significantly behind our brands with higher levels of strategic marketing and R&amp;D investment.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Overall sales of $5.3 billion were even with the year-ago period underlying organic sales rose a healthy 5%.
It's driven by higher net selling prices of more than 2% and increased sales volumes of 2%.
On the other hand changes in foreign currency rates decreased sales by more than 3% and lost sales in conjunction with our pulp and tissue restructuring reduced sales by an additional 1%.
Moving down the P&amp;L adjusted gross margin was 33.6%.
That's up 240 basis points year-on-year.
The improvement was driven by organic sales growth and $70 million of FORCE cost savings.
Although we benefited from input cost inflation of $30 million this was mostly offset by unfavorable currency translation effects.
Let me spend a minute on our FORCE program.
Our teams around the world have been working hard to identify and implement additional savings programs so that we can fund reinvestment and improve our margins.
They've made excellent progress in the first half of the year in particular by leveraging our global procurement organization and continuous improvement capabilities.
As a result we're increasing our 2012 full year savings target to at least $250 million up from our previous estimate of $150 million to $200 million.
This new guidance our 2011 and 2012 combined total savings are now projected to be at least $515 million.
So we'll exceed our existing 3-year target of $400 million to $500 million after just 2 years.
Now turning back to our results.
On an adjusted basis second quarter operating profit rose 8% with an operating margin of 14.7%.
That's up 110 basis points compared to prior year.
Our investment between the lines increased including a $35 million step-up in strategic marketing to support our product innovations and targeted growth initiatives.
Administrative and research spending also increased as we continue to build capabilities to support future growth particularly in K-C International.
Second quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.30 compared with $1.18 last year.
While we benefited from a slightly lower adjusted effective tax rate that effect was mostly offset by lower equity income.
Cash provided by operations in the second quarter was a solid $740 million.
That compares to a strong year-ago performance of $771 million.
In terms of primary working capital I'm encouraged that we're on track with our plan to reduce our cash conversion cycle by at least 2 days this year.
We continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
During the second quarter we repurchased 2.5 million shares of KMB stock at a cost of $200 million.
We now anticipate full year share repurchases of $1.3 billion up from our previous target of $900 million to $1.1 million (sic) [$1.1 billion] for the year.
This reflects our expectation for additional excess cash flow including proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
And the last we're now expecting a more moderate year-on-year decline in our diluted share count than we previously anticipated.
That's mostly due to the accounting impact of option exercises.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 7% with volumes up 4% and net selling prices advancing 3%.
We had another quarter of strong volume growth in K-C International including high-single digit growth in each of our major regions.
The growth initiatives performed very well.
In fact in the Diaper category specifically China volumes grew by more than 40% and Brazil and Russia volumes were each up approximately 20%.
Elsewhere our European business delivered solid volume growth in the quarter while our North American volumes were down slightly.
The benefit of improved net selling prices in Personal Care was driven by K-C International and our Huggies brand in North America.
Second quarter Personal Care operating margins of 16.8% were pretty similar to both last year and the first quarter this year.
Turning to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up more than 1%.
Net selling prices rose 3% while organic volumes fell about 1%.
We continue to deliver excellent price realization in both North America and across K-C International.
Consumer Tissue operating margins rose 340 basis points versus last year and I'm really pleased that our teams continue to capture the benefits from our strategies to improve revenue realization and drive cost savings.
Lower pulp costs also helped our tissue margins.
Moving to K-C Professional &amp; Other organic sales were up 3%.
The increase was driven by improved volumes of 2% and higher net selling prices of 1%.
Volumes were up 5% in K-C International while North American and European volumes were up modestly.
Operating margins of 16.4% were up 120 basis points versus last year driven by benefits from organic sales growth cost savings and lower input cost.
And lastly Health Care organic sales were up 7% as driven by volume growth.
Medical device volumes increased double-digits with strong growth in both our digestive health and airway management businesses.
In addition surgical and infection prevention volumes rose mid-single digits as led by growth in exam gloves and surgical products.
Operating margins in Health Care of 13.6% were in line with a year ago.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth led by K-C International delivered improved margins and earnings per share and we're reinvesting in the business to support our growth strategies.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Since Mark has reviewed our second quarter results I'll just add that I'm encouraged by our overall performance and by the execution of our Global Business Plan strategies.
About halfway through the year we've made excellent progress in a continued volatile environment and our business fundamentals are strong.
So let me share some of the highlights of our results from the first half of the year.
On the top line our organic sales were up 5% and that's ahead of our original full year target for growth of 3% to 4%.
K-C International has been a key driver of that growth and our organic sales there are up 11% and that includes 15% growth in Personal Care which is a significant pickup compared to the 10% organic growth this business achieved last year.
And we're delivering strong results in several key priority businesses.
For example in China our Diaper volumes so far this year are up more than 45% and that's driven by benefits from product innovation and distribution expansion.
Our Diaper business in Russia is also performing very well.
We've got 20-plus percent volume growth there.
An upgraded Huggies diaper has been key to our success in this market.
And in Brazil we've launched premium diaper pants.
Our diaper volumes there have increased by more than 15% so far this year.
And then finally volumes in adult care and baby wipes across Kimberly-Clark International are each up about 15% and we're making these businesses become truly global.
So I'm pleased with K-C International's performance so far this year.
Our categories are healthy we're generating better-than-expected growth and we're very optimistic about our future prospects for this part of our business.
And it's good to know that K-C International has even more innovation coming in the second half of the year.
That includes the relaunch of premium adult care pants in Brazil premium fem care offerings throughout Latin America and a diaper upgrade in South Korea.
Now turning to North America.
We delivered mid- to high-single digit volume growth in feminine care and adult care in the first half of this year and both businesses are benefiting from strong marketing programs and product innovation.
And on the innovation front we're optimistic about our Poise brand's recently announced entry into the feminine wellness category.
Our other businesses in North America are generally performing in line with our plans although category demand in baby and child care is tracking at the low end of our previous expectations.
We've also seen some modest trade down in these categories but nonetheless our market shares are holding steady in these 2 businesses.
And looking more broadly at our market shares in North America our positions remain solid overall as we're up or even with year-ago market share levels in 6 of our 8 consumer businesses.
And finally in Europe conditions remain challenging particularly in Southern Europe.
With that said our market shares are generally stable overall and our European team is on track to achieve its 2012 plan.
So overall organic top line growth has been very good through the first 6 months of 2012 and our brands are in great shape.
To drive this growth and support our brands we've been investing significantly including an $80 million increase so far this year in strategic marketing.
And our research and development spending was also up at a double-digit rate in the first half of this year.
Now turning to profitability we've increased adjusted gross margin by 240 basis points in the first half of the year.
That's been driven by our focus on organic sales growth and cost savings.
Our adjusted operating profit has grown by 10% in the first half and that's led to a 12% increase in adjusted earnings per share and that's ahead of our original plan for the year.
We continue to run the business with financial discipline.
Our balance sheet remains strong our cash provided by operations is up 30% through June.
So while we're only halfway through the year we've got more work to do but we're tracking ahead of our previous expectations in a number of areas and I'm encouraged by our progress.
So let me move to the outlook.
Our plan is to build on the momentum that we've had going in the first half of this year.
We'll continue to focus on our targeted growth initiatives innovation brand building cost-reduction and shareholder-friendly capital allocation.
There are a number of updates to our full year planning assumption in this morning's news release.
We're now targeting 2012 adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $5.05 to $5.20 per share and that range is about $0.05 per higher -- $0.05 per share higher at each end of the range than our previous estimates.
The key drivers for the increased outlook are our higher organic sales growth and increased FORCE cost savings.
While we've lowered our commodity cost estimates we expect that those benefits will be largely offset by more unfavorable currency exchange rates as commodity cost and the U.S.
dollar continue to generally move in the opposite directions.
We've also taken up our strategic marketing and G&amp;A investment plans to support our growth initiatives and I'm pleased that we're able to increase our near-term outlook and increase the level of investments we're making for our future success.
So to summarize our performance in the first half of the year was excellent.
We've increased our expectations for our 2012 organic sales growth cost savings and adjusted earnings per share and we remain convinced that our Global Business Plan will continue to improve shareholder value.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess want to talk about volumes a little bit specifically the growth that you posted in European Personal Care as well as North American Tissue.
Is that just because of easy comps or was there something else going on? I think in Europe Personal Care a couple of things.
We had double-digit growth in our baby wipes business.
We had high-single digit growth in DryNites and Pull-Ups and we had low-single digit growth in branded diapers.
And so it's good to see we've got good innovation and strong brands in some of those categories that are delivering growth.
We also picked up a couple of private label contracts which also helped and then I think the comps were a little easier in second quarter last year.
So lots going on there.
In Consumer Tissue in Europe was your question or was it in...
Research Division</strong> And North America.
In North America you saw kind of a mixed bag.
The second quarter facial tissue volumes were down just a touch.
Our shares were relatively stable overall.
COTTONELLE volumes were down but Viva and Scott Towels volumes were up.
Some of the -- most of the COTTONELLE volume decline had more to do with promotional timing at a key customer.
Last year we had a big promotion it didn't repeat this year.
So that would explain most of it.
But the shares overall in tissue look pretty decent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just sticking with volume and demand a little bit can you offer any incremental color? You mentioned a little bit of the trade down in baby care.
I'm just wondering as you move through the second quarter any changes incremental changes reflective of the macro environment or has it been kind of as you've been seeing for the last couple of years? You probably saw private label shares ticked up in several categories 1 point or 2 sequentially and so diapers was one of those.
I think it was up a point sequentially.
Our shares were flat but that's one that you probably would look to.
Now you have other ones.
You look at our adult care shares our private label is down a couple of points.
And so it's probably just one that we've watched sequentially but infant care was up I think 0.9 point.
Fem care private label share was up just under a point.
Facial tissue it always goes up sequentially because it's the weakest quarter so that one was fairly normal.
And then in the dry bath category private label was up a couple of points.
So as we would say we'd look at modest category trade down those were areas we'd probably focus on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one -- couple quick questions on commodity cost.
Looking at your forecast for NBSK that's kind of in line with the first half average yet prices seem to be falling in the second half.
Are you expecting some sort of pickup or again are you just basing this on forecasts that are out there? Yes we're basing on forecasts that are out there.
So we're down probably about $35 a ton on average per NBSK versus our last update for you.
I think in April we talked about $915 to $930 a ton.
We're now calling it $880 to $895 a ton on average for the year.
Current spot is about $880.
So we think that we're in the ballpark but we'll see what happens.
I think the northern softwood market has maybe gotten a little bit more slack in recent weeks so there may be a little bit more downside there.
But the hardwood market where we probably buy more eucalyptus than anything else seems fairly firm at this point.
So I wouldn't see a lot of opportunity on that part of our fiber mix.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So strategic marketing up about I guess it looks like it's about 25% or so in the first half.
I guess I want to try to understand the need to continue that pace.
To what extent is this increase structural versus in response to heavy new product activity? I guess -- so could you talk about that and the need for this pretty fast pace and increase to continue over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
I guess I would say if you kind of look at the percent of sales we're back pretty close to where we were in 2010.
So we had ramped up and gotten up to a little over 5% of sales.
In 2011 it flattened out and we really had a better year of sales growth and didn't increase strategic marketing in fact it decreased a little bit.
And so we're more back on the trendline and kind of back to where we probably ought to be from a percent of sales basis.
We really look at it more market by market and are we competitive with our share of voice and are we investing appropriately behind the innovation.
And so most of the incremental funding is going to drive Personal Care growth in emerging markets and so you're seeing -- with the kind of growth we're seeing in China Russia Latin America you're seeing a significant uptick in spend there.
In North America when we launch our new Poise and Depend products we're doing that behind a full up A&amp;P program.
Same will be true with some of the new U by Kotex experience.
We had a relaunch of the mainline Huggies diapers that we supported this year and so we're investing behind innovation that we think will drive top line and margin ultimately and then that's showing up so far this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess on another note this $20 million drag I guess to operating profit this quarter on I guess on production downtime can you talk about what the full year run rate would be in order to generate the 2 days of cash conversion cycle improvement you're talking about? Are you already there or do you think you're going to have incremental downtime for the rest of the year that will affect operating profit? We still would say that the amount of downtime we're going to take is going to be pretty similar overall this year to last year.
Last year was probably more heavily back-end weighted so I think our comps are going to get easier on that score in the back half.
Pretty much all the downtime has been focused on North America and baby and child care where the category's softer than we thought.
So we're taking downtime to make sure we don't build inventory in that environment.
And maybe Mark you can talk about cash conversion cycle but we're pretty close to running at the rate that we need to run at and I think we just a little bit of opportunity in the back half as we get past some of the launches that we've built some inventory for in the first half.
Yes I would say Chris that the teams are as our rate of innovation has picked up obviously that throws a curve at the supply chain that teams are getting much better at planning for inventories executing the launch and pushing inventories down.
So now this has become more a normal cycle in our business op but we're right on track to meet or potentially exceed our cash conversion cycle goal for the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just I guess thinking about price as it comes through the sales composition.
Last quarter was 3 this quarter I guess maybe a touch over 2.
Just from the area of competitive activity that you're seeing in North America and even to Europe to some degree are you seeing any risk out there of price rollbacks? Can you just maybe talk about the -- I mean I know there's always a timing of when some of the pricing kind of anniversaries but I guess I was just wondering about the competitive landscape and then should we expect that the pricing benefit that is built into this year's expectation starts to I guess decelerate over the course of the year more than anniversary-ing it but just because there might be a little bit more promotional element coming through? That's always a risk especially as you have a weaker commodity environment that someone will spend it back.
I think our primary competitor has been pretty transparent on where their focal point is for pricing investments and so you guys have read all that I'm sure.
So the areas that they highlighted I'm sure we'll continue to see activities that we'll be focused on.
And from our standpoint we're focused on driving the business with innovation and driving a better mix overall.
We will anniversary a lot of the pricing in the back half of the year particularly K-C International but also in the U.S.
So the pricing comps will get tougher.
And in the meantime if we can continue to drive innovation we'll make it that much tougher for everybody to compete.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at this point you're not -- even with pulp kind of below the forecast you're not -- and I kind of feel that pulp is at the level now where you took pricing maybe or the lesser on the pricing so it feels like things are fine at retail but maybe if you can provide a little color of any discussions with retailers if they're looking for any incremental trade support just obviously paying attention to how commodities are trending for you.
Yes.
I don't think they've seen a big enough commodity pullback in any area that would -- that that alone would drive a major pricing action and I think most retailers would like to be advantaged as opposed to just seeing a broad industry decrease.
So they would like a special offer that's lined up with their particular strategy and are more focused on that kind of a discussion than in trying to get you the rollback industry prices which just takes dollars of the category and hurts their same-store sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just the last question would be I think last quarter we were hoping to see some stabilization in just North America child care then just maybe some updated thoughts.
I mean how prolonged do you think this will be that I mean hopefully we won't see continued mid-single digit declines year-over-year as you head into 2013 but just your research your intel just a sense of where we are in the category when do you think the category could stabilize? I mean obviously we're feeling the full effects of 3 years of low birth rate declines and the birth rate looks like it's going to be fairly flat this year.
And so you'll start to see that roll into the child care category as those children graduate from diapers and move into Pull-Ups and so we would expect that you'll still see relatively soft category comps this year but it should start to stabilize next year.
Our next question will come from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just another question on pricing.
I see that in -- you said in Personal Care International your pricing was up about 4 I think and you said driven by increases in Latin America.
Can you comment on how the pricing works in other emerging markets besides Latin America when you have these currency devaluations? Do you take price? And how does that work? And is it harder or not harder like I guess Russia would be an example or maybe some of the Asian emerging markets where there has been some currency devaluations? Can you just kind of comment on the pricing in International outside Latin America? Yes I mean as you can imagine it's a fairly complex -- the question depends on the amount of the material that's imported in that particular market versus what's produced in-country.
So if a good part of your cost base is in a foreign currency and your home currency devalues you're going to see pricing happen a lot quicker.
So for example in Russia as we have moved to producing in-country now more of our cost base is in ruble so you can handle swings in the ruble a lot easier than if you were importing all the diapers from Europe or from somewhere else.
And so in Russia for example there has been some price improvement but not to the extent that you'd see in the ruble devaluation.
And so I think broadly you'll tend to see pricing changes when you have big swings in currency when you've got a high level of imported content.
And beyond that if it's mostly local you won't typically see a lot of price swings at that point just because the commodity costs are maybe offset -- the commodity benefit may be offset by currency weakness.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Want to go back to emerging market growth in KCI in particular and of course the trend looked pretty good this quarter but I'm trying to figure out the trajectory.
So last quarter sequentially I guess Personal Care at 19% organic or 18% 19% in '12.
Consumer Tissue at 10% I think now it's about 4% organic or thereabout.
So there's a deceleration and I just want to get a sense of because it didn't look like comps were much different.
I want to get a sense of how you think about that in the context of some of the distribution gains you had gotten I think in China which drove some of the 40% growth this quarter.
But also in the context of the overall macro environment that we're hearing about in emerging market so if you have any thoughts about that given this sequential deceleration I think it'd be helpful.
Yes and I think we talked about last quarter where it was probably -- the comps are going to get tougher as the year progressed and so you saw a little bit of that in the second quarter.
If you look at our sales on a sequential basis they were pretty similar in dollar terms and there wasn't a lot of new pricing.
And so if you factor out the currency effect you'd say you had some sequential volume improvement and so even though you had a deceleration on the rate of growth year-over-year you still would see the size of the business growing broadly.
And so you looked at Personal Care volumes in KCI they were up 12 in the first quarter they were up 8 in the second quarter.
Yes there are some things that were a little softer.
Venezuela was a little softer in the second quarter partly because of some of the price controls and things that went in caused a little bit of disruption there.
But I'd say broadly in the big markets like China Russia broadly across Latin America we didn't see much change Q1 to Q2 and the momentum still feels pretty good.
And obviously those comps will get tougher as the year progresses but we're not seeing a big slowdown across the board yet at this stage.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in the context of kind of cash conversion or working capital from before how much of a -- should we expect that the higher level of working capital and that's what we've seen over the past few quarters because of the bigger entry into the emerging markets this kind of distribution or whatever.
Is there kind of just a step-up we should expect or should we expect going back to historical levels of working capital going forward? Ali you mean absolute dollars invested? LLC.
Research Division</strong> No.
Like I guess ratio-wise.
We're at close to -- we're not at the best all-time but we're under 13% of sales and we think we can continue to improve off of that.
Our cash conversion cycle is about 46 days.
I'd love to see us closer to 42 and improving beyond that but we're not planning on significant increments of working capital investment.
As our mix of business shifts overseas supply chains get a little longer but hopefully benefits from lean and better planning activities can offset that.
So significant increases is not part of the plan.
In fact we'd like to continue to drive -- we expect to continue to drive improvement.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So just the distribution chain in the emerging markets won't drive it too much higher it sounds like.
You can get benefit out of...
Yes hopefully our capabilities offset that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me at least is around pricing and competition.
What are you seeing in the environment? I think you've touched on it briefly in a couple geographies but broadly are you seeing any changes? Are you anticipating any changes from your retail discussions? There's a question before about increased trade spend request doesn't sound like that's happening but how are you planning for that going forward at all if that were to change? I mean retailers are trying to drive their business overall so they -- I was walking stores with a major retailer earlier this week and they're looking for how do you get the right innovation in the store with the right insight on the shopper to drive my category.
And so it's not just about an item price discussion with most of our strategic customers.
They want to talk about the insights about the shopper and the total relationship that you're trying to build with the consumer.
And so that's really where we want to play as well where we're bring innovation things like the fem wellness category that we launched on Poise; we're getting great support.
We want to bring totally new dollars to their category.
That's very exciting for them.
If you're the fifth guy bringing an idea to them that's already on the shelf then you wind up having the item price discussion.
But where you've got news and real innovation they get excited about it and want to support you.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have a handful of brief questions.
Could you give us market share or at least the direction in China Russia and Brazil? Yes.
I mean I think broadly the shares would be up just given our outperformance but I also would tell you that the market shares there are usually sample data.
And so like in Diapers I think if you looked at our national share we're probably high-single digits low-double digit something like that but it would be up sequentially.
Russia we're probably in the high 20s diaper market share which would be the key one that would be up slightly and Brazil in Diapers we're probably what Paul mid-30s? Coming up on that.
Coming up on that.
But again in most of those markets we're actually looking at -- as much at category penetration and category growth as much as share in those markets because if we can take a mom who's using 1 diaper a day to using 2 diapers a day we double our business and that's what's exciting about many of these markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm just mentioning this in the context of people being very worried about a slowdown in China and a lack of ability for moms to buy diapers so I just wondered what your huge volume growth if you think it's share or you think the category really is expanding despite fears.
Well I think for us it's -- we were in about 70 cities at the end of the year we're in 80 cities now.
So part of it is we're just expanding geographically.
We were in the Super Premium tier and we moved into the mainline segment last year.
So in the first half we're getting better comparisons by participating in the broader part of the category and so those are probably 2 bigger factors that ultimately will translate into an improvement in our national share but it was more of we're participating in more of the category and that's driving our growth at this point in time in China.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great.
The second thing is can you -- I don't think you did this.
Just give us a sense of how much currency how much worse currency might be in the back half and for the full year.
Yes I'll let Paul give you the highlights on that.
Yes for the full year Caroline currency is going to be a drag of about 3% on the top line and previously we were expecting about a 2% drag for the year.
All of that is coming essentially in the back half.
Research Division</strong> And it skews to the third quarter I'm guessing.
I mean currency rates adjusted pretty late in the second quarter so yes we're going to feel it pretty quickly in the third quarter here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at the bottom line does it tend to have a more significant impact? I think we said our commodity inflation was better about $50 million and the effect of currency translation and transaction is probably worse about $50 million.
So they roughly offset each other this time in our guidance for the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
But obviously higher quality if it's currency that's eating in there.
In your European volume growth which was extraordinary can you break out how much came from the nonbranded? Yes I think we said we had high -- we had double-digit growth in branded wipes and high-single digit growth in branded DryNites and Pull-Ups and then had low-single digit growth in branded diapers.
And if you look at the private label business in Europe it's still only about 10% of our overall sales so we picked up some additional contracts but we had solid growth in our branded portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And how do you explain that because Europe's been so horrible for most people? Well we've got a strong business in the U.K.
and that's doing well.
And actually a lot of the innovation on wipes was pretty strong across Europe.
And I was just in Europe a couple of weeks ago with Mark and some of our other leaders.
And yes Southern Europe is tough but there are other markets.
Our KCP business in Germany for example is doing quite well.
So there are other pockets where it's maybe not as bad as you might read in the newspaper.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then 2 last question is major launches for the third quarter you did strive [ph] a couple of ideas you're supporting and some companies have reported softness in the kind of grocery channel the more traditional distribution channel and I'm wondering if you're seeing that like there are certain areas of retail that are particularly weak and others that are strong.
Yes I think you're still seeing growth in e-commerce.
You're still seeing growth in a lot of small format retail so I would not be surprised to see good numbers from dollar stores and drugstores.
And then obviously the big-box retailers they'll be reporting their numbers soon.
You're going to see those on a monthly basis.
So I think in many ways traditional grocery winds up being the donor for a lot of that growth.
So we'll see how that plays out.
I mean a lot of our categories have been shifting for many years out of grocery and into other channels.
And I wouldn't say that's accelerating by any stretch but it's still occurring.
Research Division</strong> Just the product launches? Yes product launches we've got a lot of things going.
We launched some things in the second quarter on Depend and Poise as well as in our -- under our U by Kotex brand.
Those will continue in the back half.
Got a lot of activity coming on diaper pants around the world where you'll see that hit in a number of markets.
And one of the things I'm excited about is we're getting to our international markets much faster with our innovation so things like the fem wellness platform will be in multiple markets and it actually it started in Chile and it is moving to other markets rapidly around the world including the U.S.
So you'll see that show up.
Our U by Kotex approach to the fem care category will be in more than 30 markets by the end of next year so we're getting out with our innovation around the world much faster which is exciting.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> If you don't mind coming back to this issue with U.S.
pricing for tissue categories like bath tissue and paper towels.
But hopefully from a different angle what are you seeing with private label as all the data we have access to suggest that retailers may be using these categories as profit centers as opposed to loss leaders? Do you think that retailers have achieved enough stake in these categories in terms of market share as to become supportive of -- is structurally more attractive margin profile for these categories? No.
I think it's a true statement that many retailers use private label as a more consistent source of margin because it can't be -- it doesn't have to be comparison price or -- some retailers particularly on things like branded diapers will want to have the best diaper price in a market.
And so as a result their margin sometimes erodes because of competitive pricing comparisons.
They don't feel the same obligation to do that on private label so it does in a category management strategy typically plays a more consistent margin generator.
But I also would tell you talking to many retailers they want brands that their shoppers want on shelf at a competitive price and at a good value.
And so it's just understanding how do we make sure we make our brands and innovation so powerful that moms come in and want to buy us every day and that's our task as marketers and as brand builders.
LLC</strong> Understood but what I meant Tom is whether you think that the floor the pricing floor for private label is going up so therefore you are going to see a more -- a structurally more attractive category going forward just simply because of these categories are key for them to manage their own profits are maybe using diapers for instance as loss leaders instead? Yes.
I think that we haven't seen much of that yet in any of the data.
The private label hasn't followed the last diaper increase that the branded players took and so sometimes it takes 6 months or more for that to take place.
We'll see if that happens this time.
It hasn't happened yet.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Just 2 quick questions.
What's the split between your developed and developing markets business as a percent of total sales these days? Yes what we would call developing and emerging markets which is everything except North America and Europe is high '30s Paul I didn't...
Yes it's between 36% and 37%.
Of our total sales.
Okay.
And then on the increased outlook in the second half is this coming more from the change in commodities or a pickup in sales growth? And if it's coming from sales growth why should there be greater momentum in the developed market? Yes I guess a couple things.
We'd say there's a lot of moving parts in the guidance.
So we'd say better volume overall was part of it a lot of that from emerging markets.
So we factored in -- we're doing better in emerging markets but categories are a little weaker in some places in North America.
The net of that is about a point better volume growth and we're on that track so far this year.
So 6 months in we'd expect us to deliver that.
So that's part of it.
Our cost savings number we took it up from a range of $150 million to $200 million to be more than $250 million and so that on average is about a $75 million increase.
That's a good chunk of it.
And then 2 other factors that kind of offset each other were lower commodity costs and weaker foreign-currency rates.
And then the final drag was we've got our share count was slightly higher because we're not buying back as many shares due to the price being higher and as well as option exercises in the first half caused our diluted share count to go up.
So that's about $0.05 a share that was a drag.
So this may be more of an analysis than you were looking for but those are kind of the big factors.
Our next question comes from John San Marco with Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> Did you say 10% of Europe Personal Care is private label for you? And then is that number just Personal Care? And I guess the question is are you picking up new contracts in the U.S.
as well? In Europe about 10% of our Personal Care sales are private label and in the U.S.
we have -- it will be a much smaller number than that and we have very few private label contracts in Personal Care.
We just do a couple of things in training pants and in diapers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess how does the trade down that you referenced in North America and Personal Care how does that change your strategy or your way of thinking around private label particularly in the context of the downtime costs that you had apparently the last couple quarters? Yes I mean in the U.S.
the strategy has really been to drive our branded business so we delivered a product improvement on Huggies mainline in the second quarter.
We're starting to see some momentum from that.
We've also got product news coming in the back half of the year.
We've actually seen some uptick in our Super Premium segment behind some of the launch of diaper pants and other things.
So we're really focusing on driving our branded business with innovation across the spectrum and more of the issue is in the category weakness generally is probably more of the reason for the downtime.
And then at the margins we're seeing growth in some private label which is mostly coming out of our competitor's share at this point.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is on the Consumer Tissue segment.
You mentioned in North America the volumes overall were down 4% but if you look at the individual components none of them seem to be down that much.
I just didn't know what the disconnect was.
and you did breakout the loss and the restructuring as well.
Yes I mean probably the biggest one that was down was COTTONELLE year-on-year which is kind of mid-teens but a lot of that was promotional timing whereas Viva was up mid-teens or high teens actually and Scott Towels was actually up a bit more than that.
So I think probably the bigger size business that drove the downturn was more the comp on COTTONELLE with the year-over-year promotion timing being a big part of that.
Okay.
And then looking at the -- you mentioned that the share count probably will be a bit higher despite the increased buyback which of course is tied to options.
And what I think is interesting it looks like you've been granting about 2 to 3 million a year in options and yet you ended last year with the amount that were exercisable sort of at about half what it was at the end of 2010 or 2009.
So I guess the question is with the stock up and people exercising it looks to me that after this year you might have a very low number of unexercised options.
Is that fair? And should we see an increase in grants given the profitability this year? I think the other thing is we're granting a lot fewer options Chip than we have in the past.
So if you look at the structure and makeup of our long-term incentive program 75% of the value of grants now goes in performance-based restricted stock.
So it would only vest based on performance for our 3-year average sales growth and our 3-year improvement of return on invested capital.
And then 25% of that mix is in the form of options so we're driving it more to pay for performance-based restricted stock and less on options which we think aligns us better with shareholders over time.
Got you.
And then just last as you look at your -- at the K-C Professional business over the last 3 to say 5 months or so are you seeing any clue as to sort of what you sense is happening on the broader economy based on your customers in that business maybe within certain segments? Yes I mean I would say I was pleased with the volume performance in the last quarter so washroom was up a couple of percent and we were up 1% overall.
Safety and wipers were a little lower than that.
So I think I would say anecdotally that talking to distributors they were more bullish early in the year on the outlook for the U.S.
economy than they are today.
I just think that's natural given all the things that have happened since the first of the year that I think everyone's outlook for growth in the U.S.
has slowed a little bit and so you're seeing that.
And so at this point I think they're all still projecting growth but not as much as they were expecting at the beginning of the year.
Got you.
And one last quick one Tom.
When you talk to your retailing customers as we see several players First Quality Clearwater and others bring on capacity that's aimed at private label do you sense that the customers are going to dedicate more shelf space to the tissue categories than they had in the past or are they -- do you think they might be cutting back on some of what they carry in the brands the more national brands? Or how do you think that's going to shake out? Well if anything I think it's going the opposite way where we have a lot of retailers that did SKU reduction and probably felt like they went too deep and ultimately they want to carry on their shelves the products that their customers want to buy.
And so where customers clearly have a strong preference in this country for brands they want to carry those brands in the right mix at the right value and then find ways to differentiate themselves from how they bring that to life in the shopping experience.
And so we're probably doing more shopper research than we've ever done to bring those insights to our customers to be able to talk about the kind of events that we ought to have and how do we make sure we convert the shopper when she's in the store.
And so I think just because somebody built a machine doesn't mean that a retailer's going to want to sell more private label.
I think it is more about they want to make sure they're hitting the sweet spot of what their shopper wants to buy.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
First is on the share repurchase.
So you definitely said in the release that you expect the share count to be down year-over-year but are we talking kind of like a 1% decrease? I mean is that sort of in the ballpark? Yes I think that's about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the new private label contracts in Europe I just want to check you'd mentioned that last quarter as well so I was wondering if there were new additional contracts this quarter or if this is just a continued benefit of the wins from Q1.
That's a continued benefit of the wins in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on SG&amp;A so outside of the increase in strategic marketing and R&amp;D like I'd estimate maybe year-to-date other SG&amp;A is up probably $100 million.
And so I know of course there's a piece of that that rises with sales but that also suggests maybe some increase in other sort of admin and selling.
So if you could -- if you're willing to talk a little bit about where some of those extra dollars are going that'd be great.
We just talked about the incentive comp program.
And so a good chunk of it is actually incentive comp increases year-over-year.
So as you update your outlook for your next 2 to 3 years that swings your payout levels for your incentive comp programs.
And so that's probably -- if you strip that out of our G&amp;A in the second quarter you would see an increase that was more like inflation.
So I think -- so that's part of it and not an insignificant amount.
We're having a better year this year so it swings those numbers higher and last year it was swinging the other way a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with that true-up then have sort of been taken care of this quarter should I think about that also being higher year-over-year for the balance of the year? I'd say it will be higher for the full year than 2011 but I don't think it's going to accelerate from here.
I think the other place you'd see -- we're investing in K-C International so you'd see a little -- you'd see faster growth in K-C International.
You'd see relatively flat G&amp;A profile on the direct front in North America and Europe which you'd expect.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally just on adult care you mentioned kind of globalizing that business.
And historically I remember you talking about one of the challenges with globalizing adult care was it was largely an institutional business outside of the U.S.
So [indiscernible] how that's changed just from a big picture standpoint or how your approach to the business has changed so that you're overcoming that kind of structural hurdle? Well it's mostly an institutional business in Europe but it's not in the emerging markets so just the category hasn't been developed yet.
And so we're in the process of changing that.
So we've got dedicated resources in numerous markets around the world to launch Depend and Poise and other brands that relate to those and make sure we get that innovation out as quickly as we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And I guess one other thing would just you mentioned Poise going into sort of the female wellness.
Admittedly it was like if there was a release I missed it.
So if you wouldn't mind just quickly elaborating on what that really means.
It sounds like it's a new category almost.
Yes.
As we're talking about it a lot of times women talk about the first conversation that moms have with their daughters as they're entering puberty.
And this is the second conversation as women enter menopause and no one has this conversation with them and yet women all over the world suffer from all kinds of menopausal symptoms.
And so this is a line of products that would help deal with that.
It could be a cooling wipe it could be vaginal moisturizers things like that that would be sold in that part of the store.
We've actually launched it in other markets around the world and it's been a nice add to the Poise brand and helped fuel our overall Poise brand growth in those markets.
And it's really aimed at having that second conversation with our consumer so that they know that there's a brand out there that's taking care of them.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with the Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Was there any change in the tenor of growth throughout the quarter because you're getting all these data points that things slowed towards the middle to end of June.
Do you see that in either North America or globally? No I wouldn't say so.
I mean it was pretty consistent from a top line standpoint throughout the quarter.
No big swings anywhere that I would point to.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then is there a competitive response to the big diaper initiative that one of your competitors is maybe planning on launching in the back half of the year? Is that going to be a big line? And will you change your sort of promotional activity in response to it? I think that we would say we always want to make sure we're competitive and we -- but we also would say we've got strong innovation plans of our own that we want to make sure we're going to execute against.
So you could argue it's their response in response to our Huggies mainline improvement that launched in the second quarter and so there's lots of things going on back and forth.
They're in the middle of radiant launch on fem care.
We've got improved U by Kotex products out there and I'd say when both major brands are innovating that's good for the consumer right and that makes it tougher for private label.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then this is sort of like a broader longer-term question.
But if you kind of look at your profit growth over the last 4 years like 280% of that growth has come from the KCI business.
So how does that change over the next call it 4 years? Well I think the exciting part is that we're getting scale in KCI in lots of markets and that's just building a franchise for us there that we think will continue to grow for the future.
And I think if you talk to our KCI leaders in many ways they feel like we're just getting started.
I mean we're still in growth mode in China.
We're still in an aggressive growth mode in Russia and Eastern Europe.
And I was in Moscow about a month ago and that team is excited and they're going into all kinds of new geography in Eastern Europe and are really just building businesses from the ground up.
And so I do still think there's a lot of room to run in our overall KCI size and scale of that business.
Research Division</strong> But the question was more how do you get the profits up in the U.S.
and Europe? Because like I said those 2 businesses had declining profits over the last 4 years and if you look at your aggregate profit growth over the last 4 280% of it came from KCI.
I'd say if you looked at Europe in particular that one's going to be probably more of a stable cash generator for us.
I think in North America we still have pockets of North America that have got decent growth.
If you looked at fem care and adult care those categories are growing nicely and we're seeing good responsiveness and there are pockets of growth in our Consumer Tissue business.
Some of the things that we're doing behind facial tissue as well as moist perineal cleaning and bath tissue those are growth pockets for us.
We've got a good portfolio of growth options in KCP in Health Care that will help in the U.S.
market.
So we still think there are pockets of growth that we can improve our profitability in North America overtime as well.
I think Bill if you just look at the macro landscape since '09 those geographies have been much slower growing.
And particularly in the Diaper categories if you look at birth rates you see it directly reflect and impact kind of our largest profit contributors.
So there is a macro overlay here but we're doing -- within that doing all that we can to drive both category growth and profitably.
At this time we have no further questioners in conference.
All right.
We'll turn it back to Tom for a closing comment.
Well once again we're pleased with our execution in the first half.
We're off to a great start and our Global Business Plan is delivering the kind of shareholder value that we'd expected.
Thanks for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first speaker Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of third quarter results and our full year outlook.
Tom will follow Mark and focus his comments mostly on the strategic changes we're making in Europe.
After that we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor Section of our website.
Let me remind everyone that we will be making forward-looking statements today.
There can be no assurance that future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
I'd also like to point out that we will be referring to adjusted results and outlook today both of which exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The news release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we delivered organic sales growth of 3% highlighted by 9% growth in K-C International.
Second we significantly improved adjusted gross and operating margins with both reaching 2.5-year highs.
And third we're raising our outlook for 2012 adjusted earnings per share for the second consecutive quarter.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Third quarter sales were $5.2 billion down 3% versus last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 3% driven by increased volumes of 2% and higher net selling prices of 1%.
Unfavorable currency rates were a 5% drag on our top line and lost sales in conjunction with our pulp and tissue restructuring further reduced sales by 1%.
Third quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.2% up 290 basis points from last year.
The increase was driven by organic sales growth $85 million of FORCE cost savings and benefits from input cost deflation.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Adjusted operating profit rose 8% with an operating margin of 15.5%.
That's up 140 basis points compared to the prior year.
The growth in operating profit came despite a pretty significant currency headwind and continued investment between the lines.
That includes a $25 million step up in strategic marketing investment and higher administrative and research spending to build capabilities and support future growth particularly in K-C International.
The third quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 31.8% toward the high end of our full year target of 30% to 32%.
Compared to last year the third quarter rate reduced it -- reduced adjusted earnings per share by $0.05.
All in all third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.34 up 6% versus last year.
Cash provided by operations in the third quarter was strong at $844 million.
That's up from $750 million last year despite higher pension contributions.
Speaking of pension let me comment briefly on the move we're making to reduce the size and potential future volatility of our U.S.
pension obligation.
This month we offered about 10 000 former employees a one-time option to receive a lump sum distribution of their pension benefit.
The benefit obligation associated with this offer is about $570 million.
That's 15% of our total U.S.
pension obligation.
The payments will be funded from our pension plan assets and will occur by the end of the year.
Depending on the amount of participants who choose this option it could trigger a one-time non-cash settlement charge in the fourth quarter.
If that happens we expect to exclude it from our adjusted earnings per share.
Further details about this action are included in this morning's news release.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 6% with volumes up 4% and net selling prices advancing 2%.
K-C International had another quarter of strong volume growth with high-single to low double-digit growth in each major region.
Our key growth initiatives continue to perform very well.
In fact in the diaper category China volumes grew about 45% and volumes in Brazil and Russia were each up approximately 15%.
Elsewhere our Personal Care volumes were up high-single digits in Europe.
In North America although volumes were down low-single digits market shares were up or even with year-ago levels in every category except baby wipes.
Third quarter Personal Care operating margins of 18.1% rose 150 basis points driven by organic sales growth cost savings and input cost deflation.
Moving to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up more than 1% driven by higher volumes.
Overall net selling prices were flat as gains in K-C International were offset by higher promotional spending in developed markets.
Consumer Tissue operating margins continue to be up year-on-year with 150-basis-point improvement in the third quarter.
Turning to K-C Professional &amp; Other organic sales and volumes were even with year-ago levels.
Organic volumes were up in K-C International and in the washroom category in North America.
On the other hand volumes were down in southern Europe and in our safety business.
Operating margins of 17.5% were up 280 basis points driven by cost savings and input cost deflation.
And lastly Health Care organic sales and volumes were down 1%.
Volumes in both surgical and infection prevention and medical devices were off slightly compared to strong year-ago performance.
Operating margins of 14.9% were up 110 basis points driven by lower input cost.
Now let me shift to our full year outlook.
We expect to continue our momentum for the first 9 months of the year.
We'll stay focused on our targeted growth initiatives investing behind innovation and brand building cost reduction and continue to allocate our capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
On the top line through 9 months we're at nearly 5% organic net sales growth so we're right on track with our full year target range of 4% to 5%.
Our FORCE program continues to perform very well.
With $215 million of savings in the bank year-to-date we're tracking to exceed our full year target of at least $250 million of savings.
In terms of commodity costs our outlook has improved slightly.
We now expect deflation of $100 million to $150 million for the year.
As a reminder our previous plan was for deflation to be $0.00 to $100 million for the full year.
So adding it all up we're now targeting 2012 adjusted earnings per share in a range of $5.15 to $5.25.
As a reminder our previous guidance was $5.05 to $5.20 per share.
We're pleased with the performance of the business and we continue to invest for our long-term success.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth led by K-C International.
We delivered significantly higher margins with healthy levels and cost savings and we've increased our full year outlook for adjusted earnings per share.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Since Mark has reviewed our third quarter results and our full year outlook I'll just add that I continue to be encouraged by the progress that we're making this year.
We're delivering against our growth initiatives.
We're reducing our costs aggressively and we're reinvesting for the future all while generating strong cash flow and returning significant amounts of cash to our shareholders.
So while the environment remains challenging our plan is working.
Now let me turn to the changes that we're making in Europe.
These actions will allow us to better focus on our strongest market positions and growth opportunities will improve our underlying profitability in Europe and now enable more sustainable returns going forward for us in this part of the world.
And just to be clear these changes only impact our Western and Central European business.
Our Consumer business in Eastern Europe is managed as part of our K-C International team and will not be affected by the changes that we announced today.
We will be exiting the open diaper category in Western and Central Europe with the exception of the Italian market.
We'll also be divesting or exiting some other low-margin or slower-growing businesses in certain markets and most of these are in the Consumer Tissue segment.
These businesses have not been able to meet our growth or return targets and unlike the rest of our European businesses they've not been earning their cost of capital.
Now most of you that have followed us for a while have been investors for a while know that we've been in the European diaper market for more than 20 years and we have made a number of attempts to find a winning business model there.
So despite all these efforts we have not been able to deliver sustainable profitable growth or earned acceptable returns on capital.
In fact even with some relative progress this year we're still operating this business at basically break-even levels.
So after we've completed a comprehensive review of our business and our strategy we've concluded that we can create more shareholder value by getting out of this business rather than by continuing to try to turn it around.
Now our diaper business in Italy generates solid cash flow and acceptable gross margins.
So staying in Italy will maximize the efficiency of some of our assets that are shared with our child care operations there and enable our scale as we go to market in Italy.
Beyond our moves in the diaper market we're not in a position today to identify what specific markets or products we'll be divesting or exiting and we're in the process of communicating with our employees and our customers and we want to get that behind us first.
To win our cost structure with these moves we'll streamline our manufacturing footprint and our administrative organization in Europe and this will include the sale or closure of 5 manufacturing facilities and the transfer of some production to other facilities to improve our productivity.
Total workforce reductions are expected to be in the range of 1 300 to 1 500 positions.
Restructuring costs for these changes will be incurred through 2014 and are expected to total about $250 million to $350 million after tax.
The businesses affected by today's announcement generate annual net sales of about $500 million and a very modest operating profit.
About 75% of the sales are in Personal Care and most of the rest are in Consumer Tissue.
We'll be moving quickly to implement these changes.
More than half the charges are expected to be occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the lost sales associated with these moves will commence beginning in the first quarter of 2013.
We expect the European market to remain challenging going forward so our teams there will continue to focus on improving our profitability and generating solid cash flow and returns on capital.
At the same time we'll be placing more focus on our strongest branded positions particularly in the U.K.
Italy Spain and Switzerland.
We'll also be investing in those areas where we can deliver profitable growth like our Child Care business our Baby Wipes business our moist bathroom tissue and facial tissue businesses.
And I would like to recognize the accomplishments of our European team this year.
They are on track to achieve their full year plan in what we all recognize as an extremely challenging environment in Europe.
And I'm confident that they will execute these changes that we're talking about today with excellence.
Today's changes are another example of our financial discipline and the portfolio management approach that we use to run our company every day.
So to summarize we're encouraged by our continued strong execution this year.
We're optimistic that the strategic changes we're making will further improve our portfolio and we're convinced that our global business plan will continue to deliver shareholder value.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess sticking on Europe for a moment.
Can you just give a little bit of color on what your remaining sales will be in Western and Central Europe? And any sort of color on initial conversations with customers that will continue to buy other products? Yes.
I mean our total consumer business in Europe is a little over $2 billion and so this will bring it down by about $500 million.
We also have obviously a Health Care business and the K-C Professional business as well so our total sales in Europe are over $3 billion.
And from a customer standpoint those contacts are underway as we speak.
And so it'd be premature to give any additional color on that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And switching gears a little bit I guess feminine care volumes in the U.S.
and North America were a little bit weaker in the quarter.
I'm just wondering if you can offer some color there? Yes.
I think fem care -- a couple of things going on.
I mean first of all our overall share is relatively stable sequentially and so we're not seeing a lot of movement there.
And we are seeing -- there was a lot of promotional activity in July and August.
That probably hurt our Kotex Natural Balance business.
Our U by Kotex line continued to do very well in the quarter.
But other than that I'd say there was a little bit more promotion in July and August.
It abated a bit in September and so hopefully it'll be a little more stable in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and K-C Professional.
I realize there is the tissue impact but volumes seem like they were a bit weaker than they've been trending.
Was there anything kind of incremental going on there? Yes a couple of things.
In North America in particular our washroom business was fine.
It was up about 3%.
The areas that were probably hit hardest were things that more -- closely associated with manufacturing like safety and wipers.
Part of that may be distributor inventory destocking near the end of the quarter because it seem like things slowed down a little bit in the end of September.
It could also be a little bit of softness in manufacturing so that was part of it.
Europe was a little light in KCP.
Part of that was the comps last year.
They were up 6% or 7% last year in the third quarter so they had a little tougher comp.
And I also think that if you talk to those guys anecdotally yes Germany is slowing down just a little bit.
The U.K.
is slowing down a little bit so you saw some of that.
Other than that I would say though the rest of that business was pretty much on track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just broadly speaking when you look around the world you're still posting for instance 45% growth in China.
If you're looking at kind of a same-store sales-type basis the markets that you've been in were there any changes there? And any incremental changes in consumer behavior I guess in either Western Europe or North America? No.
I would say it felt like there wasn't a big shift.
I don't think anything got hugely better sequentially.
And so -- I was in China not long ago and we're still doing well in established markets.
And I'd say the category is still probably growing mid-single digits mid- to high-single digits so that might be a same-store sales equivalent.
We're getting growth because we're participating in a broader part of the category moving from the premium to the mid-tier and building that out.
We're also expanding our distribution into more cities.
And so we've really got 3 growth drivers in our China business; the category itself and greater penetration participating in a broader range of the category and then driving our distribution into more cities.
And I was in Europe not long ago as well and I saw some of the same things.
I mean despite all the headlines that you read I mean people need diapers and bathroom tissue and facial tissue every day and so you aren't seeing big trends in consumer behavior there.
I think the U.S.
is much the same where we've had good innovation.
Mom is still willing to pay more for a better product.
If you've got the same product as somebody else there's a little bit more price competition in the market maybe than there was a quarter ago.
But that's maybe the only subtle shift that you've seen.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could give a little more detail on the European exit right? So it sounds like using your percentages that the cash costs of the exit are somewhere like $125 million to $220 million.
Can you give a little more color on the returns on that spend? Right? Because -- what might be the opportunity to drive a more efficient structure right on the European business in general in that exit right? Because the cash costs again -- I mean just trying to understand what the benefit is over time or even in the near term.
Yes Chris.
I think about this maybe more as a divestiture where we're not getting a lot of proceeds.
And actually we have to pay some severance to -- which is most of the cash costs of the charge.
And really part of it is as we're shutting this $500 million in sales we got to shut all of the overhead that goes with it.
So our team over there has gone through all the back office processes to say "Look we've got to streamline and exit all of that." And this was roughly 20% 25% of our sales in Europe and so you've got to shed 25% of your back office costs.
For those of you who have gone through that that's not an easy thing to do.
And so the team has come up with a plan to do that and actually improve our margins in Europe going forward by exiting these businesses.
But it's not a classic restructuring where you'd spend this money and you get these cost savings that you might have seen in other areas.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So does that mean that this is a cost drag in the near term? Because your point -- I mean it's hard to eliminate stranded overhead that quickly.
And then also what do you bake in as prospects to getting cash on some of these your ability to sell these plants and facilities? I mean is anything baked into your assumptions right now? And how do you assess the probability of being able to get some real proceeds on this stuff? If you look at the range built into the restructuring charge that -- the variable and the range is really the range of proceeds that might be available.
And so the -- you look at the diaper business which isn't profitable at this point there's not a lot of EBITDA there to get a multiple on.
So we may have some facilities that we'll look to sell and we'll get some proceeds from some of the activity.
But I don't think it's going to be a huge driver of value creation.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just following up on that I mean what pushed you over the top to make the exit as opposed to just milk the business? I mean did you guys expect a continued deterioration? Or was milking it not an option really in these competitive categories? Well we brought in a new management team in Europe late last year and we challenged them to go pull together a plan that will help us be successful in Europe and that all options are on the table.
And rather than give us an incremental change that restructures it one more time and makes it a little better then 2 or 3 years later we're going to go back at it again we just fundamentally had to ask ourselves is -- we've been in the diaper business 20 years.
We really haven't been successful yet.
How much more can we do? And do we have a chance to win here or can we free up some resources to really win in some of the other good businesses we have in Europe and maybe even free up some resources to invest more aggressively in emerging markets? And it really -- it came down to that call is do you want to spend more chasing the European diaper opportunity? Or do you want to go harder in China Brazil Russia Eastern Europe? And I think the team made us a strong recommendation and we're going forward to make it happen.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we just stay in the diaper stuff in Europe for a sec? Sure.
Research Division</strong> So would you be willing to license the Huggies brand to a third party? Or would you just be selling assets if it was a divestiture? I think that we'll look at what those alternatives are when we go into a sale process.
I think the thing that will be a little tricky is given that we're still in eastern Europe and we're still in Turkey and we're still in a lot of the other adjacent geographies still in Italy that that gets a little more challenging to manage inside the EU.
But we'll take a look at that when we get into the sale process.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And what if someone said "We'd want the wipes business too." Is that a non-starter? The wipes business has been a phenomenal growth for us.
And so -- and we've got good margins in that business.
And so we do believe that that's an opportunity for us to continue to drive and grow.
And so we still believe in the businesses that we're in in Europe.
Our Child Care business our DryNites business our Baby Wipes business are doing phenomenally well very profitable with good margins.
And those are core businesses for us.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And how about fem care? Because it wasn't really mentioned in the prepared comments.
Yes we don't have much of a fem care business in Europe today so there's really no change in the status of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving to a different topic should we be concerned about acrylic acid prices and super absorbers given what's happened in Japan with the fire at the factory? We haven't seen that yet.
Obviously everybody's watching that.
But we've -- we're not affected and the Nippon Shokubai wasn't our supplier.
We're starting to watch that very carefully but it hasn't spiked in the marketplace.
Obviously you've seen some weakness in commodities lately generally that's maybe helped.
But that's something that we'll have to see how that plays out.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one I guess for Mark.
If you look at your payout ratio and your dividends and also on the share repurchase activity can you guys still fund that with your U.S.
cash flow? Yes well Bill I think the answer is we're generating more cash outside the U.S.
than we need to grow as fast as we are.
So we've got to continue to repatriate.
And you've seen our -- some pressure on our effective tax rate and part of that is driven by the costs of bringing that money back to the U.S.
So we need to repatriate to continue to fund -- to some amount to continue to fund dividends and share repurchases.
Yes.
And we routinely repatriate somewhere in the $500 million to $1 billion level every year and have been for a while.
Research Division</strong> Does that impact your thinking on the payout ratio? I mean trying to take it higher just because obviously there's an EPS impact with the tax rate? Our dividend payout ratio is about where we targeted it to be.
So it's not a specific goal we have but we want to be a strong dividend payer top-tier dividend payer in the CPG space.
We're -- that's a place where we're at and I'd expect us to continue to be there.
I wouldn't expect over time to increase the payout ratio significantly.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
My question is about price mix in the U.S.
in Consumer Tissue.
It was I think negative 1%.
It had been 5% to 6% in the first half of the year.
Could you give us a sense of where that is going in the fourth quarter maybe into 2013 given that raw material cost pressures aren't so onerous anymore? Yes.
We saw -- we've annualized all of the price increases and de-sheeting effect that would have driven positive price in the last several quarters.
And we saw a little bit of price softening in the third quarter predominantly in the premium bath segment around our Cottonelle business and it was really responding to competitive pricing levels in the marketplace.
So -- but it's hard to tell at this stage whether that's retailer-led or manufacturer-led but it's more just trying to make sure we're -- we had to spend a bit back to be competitive on shelf.
I would say that's probably likely to continue in the fourth quarter based on what we've seen in promotional plans that are in place.
And obviously pulp prices just went up a tick but they're still down year-on-year.
And so we're in a kind of an equilibrium point where you're not seeing huge swings in pulp either way that's going to drive pricing to a great extent I think.
What about pricing in Personal Care? What should -- what do you think that will look like going ahead? Is that -- it was 2% in this quarter.
Does it stay at 2%? Or does that slow as well? Most of the pricing in Personal Care was really taken in overseas markets in response to big currency swings.
So places like Brazil where we had the big currency shifts you had more price being generated.
So I think I'd look for the big -- where you have big currency swings you're likely to have some price offset in either direction.
And so I'd say that's probably the best way to measure that.
No I understand that.
I'm talking about North America Personal Care.
North America price was 2%.
Yes.
I think we pretty much annualize all the price changes in North America as well.
So I wouldn't look for a lot of price movement in the fourth quarter.
[indiscernible]...
So that might be 0 in the fourth quarter? Well it really is when the pricing went in like midway through the fourth quarter last year.
So we may get a little bit of benefit but not much.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of things on the European changes.
One is when we -- you talked about this before or this option before.
We used to hear things like "Look it's too integrated; they're too many dis-synergies " but it doesn't read that way.
So is there anything that had changed leading up to this that sent you [ph] to this conclusion about look there just aren't that many dis-synergies in breaking this up number one.
And number two on Europe still is given the cash charges -- it's one of my favorite topics.
What should we expect from a change in buybacks or dividends going forward given what you're going to have to do and given the earlier question about where your cash is actually generated? I guess a couple of things.
It is difficult to unbolt a business and it is very difficult to shed the overhead that goes along with it.
And so that's not a trivial exercise and the team has spent a fair amount of time being very thoughtful on how you do that and still run the business.
And so it's an aggressive move and I give all the credit to the European team for working hard to come up with an aggressive plan that we think works.
And so I think that it's -- we've changed the leadership team as we talk came in with a fresh perspective and challenged a lot of previous assumptions and came up with a way that we think will work for us and then give us a chance to be successful in Europe.
On the cash question we've got plenty of cash.
And actually particularly as it's generated internationally it gets collected in an in-house bank in Europe and we've got the ability to use those funds in Europe to fund those.
So it won't have any significant impact on our stock buybacks or dividend payments going forward.
So this is relatively a couple of hundred million dollars on a company with $3 billion in cash flow.
It's not going to wiggle it much.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
But now on commodities the number the new number is generally much better than expected.
It doesn't all flow to the bottom line obviously and of course there's some volume deleverage that's there in some of the categories some of the businesses.
But to try and understand how much of the reinvestment in some sense you have to make is volume delevered versus pricing investments versus marketing investments versus other types of things and kind of what's that gap? If you can help us quantify that might be helpful.
Yes.
Maybe if you think about our overall plan for the year Ali and where we're better or worse you'd say we're certainly better on commodities but we're worse on currency.
And actually if you look at it we'd say it's $100 million to $150 million of commodity benefit and we're probably going to have $75 million of translation hit on currency and probably nearly an equal amount of transactions.
So commodities and currencies are going to kind of wash relative to our original planning assumptions for the year.
And so we're actually a little bit better on volume overall than our plan for the year.
And so most of that's in K-C International.
We're spending marketing at about the rate -- maybe even slightly ahead of what we thought.
And where we really have over-delivered is on our cost savings number.
We've taken that guidance up a couple of times and have had good performance on cost savings this year.
And that's -- a little bit more volume and much better cost savings is why we're -- been able to raise our guidance twice this year and are going to outperform our plan for the year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is just Personal Care sustainability.
Clearly that's been doing really well especially driven by international.
Have you seen any relief in the North American market? The numbers you're reporting don't suggest that but are you seeing any interesting signs about growth rates number one? And then number two China in particular you mentioned is growing very well and you kind of just aggregate it in terms of leaking buckets [ph].
But if you give us a sense of when you start lapping some of the distribution gains in China so we can kind of think about the transition going forward to a more normalized growth rate.
Yes.
That's a fair comment.
In the U.S.
-- I mean I think the -- our original plan for the birth rate in the U.S.
was for it to be up slightly this year more second half-driven.
It looks like it's going to be probably flat.
So it's negative in the first half positive in the second half.
We'd expect it to be slightly positive in 2013 based on that.
But -- so if you look at the category on a units basis we thought it was going to be down 1%.
It's probably going to be down 2% for the year in the diaper category.
If there was any bright spots for us in the third quarter our Child Care business did quite well driven by our GoodNites brand which we've got a strong offer there.
We also had some innovation with some new products that were launched into that market.
It was also a hot dry summer in the U.S.
so we sold a lot of Little Swimmers.
And so that helped our third quarter performance as well.
But it also showed that mom is willing to spend a bit more for innovative terrific products in that space.
In China we just keep adding cities and keep growing over there.
So I don't think we can keep growing at 45% or 50%.
But we've got an aggressive growth plan to -- if that business in total today is $400 million it could be $1 billion by 2015.
And so we do see significant growth still coming in that market.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> My question goes back to Europe.
And I guess the bigger-picture question the new guy who's I guess maybe putting himself out of a job was it contemplated that you should exit Western Europe in a bigger way kind of like P&amp;G did with the tissue towel business? Because just running the numbers quickly if you take away the $500 million of revenues and no profit the business even still is going to have I think a high-single-digit EBIT margin which is better than it's been but it still drags down the overall.
So was there a contemplation that maybe there's a bigger action that should be contemplated? Well I guess the first thing I would tell you Wendy is that the guy is actually a girl.
And so Kim Underhill has done a great job with her team in Europe and she's not putting herself out of a job.
She's actually going to take the $1.6 billion business that we have in Europe that we think will be a little bit better than the high-single-digit margins that you've delivered and put together a plan to grow those businesses and get it to the point where it is accretive to the company overall.
And so we won't do that and these restructuring actions will take a couple of years to go.
And in places it takes a while to take capacity out in Europe.
But that's certainly the vision is to get Europe to be a contributing part of the company with growth prospects and the opportunity to launch innovation and really run it like the rest of Kimberly-Clark long term.
And that's what's exciting for the team over there.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about kind of what -- more specifically what you see? Because in that tissue towel business I've always thought that that in and of itself is a hard business to make a lot of money in given private label.
Do you think innovation makes it different? Is it just your cost structure? Is it the fact that the Procter brands are gone? What makes Europe from a consumer tissue perspective so much more attractive today than it's been for a while? Yes.
I guess it's a couple things.
First of all it's launching innovation -- you're absolutely right that the bath tissue category is highly private label-penetrated and is not necessarily the place that we're going to win.
We've got a great brand in Andrex.
We're going to continue to maintain that and invest in it.
It's more about how do we drive Kleenex facial tissue more aggressively in markets around there? How do we drive Moist? We've just launched Andrex Moist and relaunched that in Europe in the U.K.
with great success.
So how do you start to build out with the great brands that we have into adjacencies that have got a better margin structure? We also see that in our Personal Care space.
Are we going as hard with DryNites and Baby Wipes and Pull-Ups as we can? And in some ways by being in the diaper business that was constraining funds to invest in these other categories.
We haven't put our best foot forward always.
And so this frees us up to be able to invest more aggressively behind those growth opportunities that we do have in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I just had a quick follow-up on China the phenomenal growth that you're seeing there.
Number one can you give us kind of what category growth is? And I know your strategy historically in China has always been I think to compete kind of at the high end and be very selective about where you distribute in and what price points.
Is that strategy still in place? Or is there a chance that because you're getting so much bigger you're going to go more down-market and compete at multiple price points? Well I mean we're in the top 2 tiers.
We've got all we can handle to drive that aggressively at this point in time.
There are some very good companies that compete at the lower end and it's tougher to differentiate in that space.
So we're going to go at the mid to top end of the market.
We actually think the market is moving in that direction anyway as consumers are trading up in China.
And so that -- we're on trend and that's helping us as well.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> The insight on China that's very helpful.
A couple of things.
Are you able to give us an outline of -- in how many categories you gained share in the U.S.? Yes.
I mean if you look at -- versus a year ago I think we were up in all but Baby Wipes.
Up or flat in all but Baby Wipes and maybe paper towels.
Is that fair? That's correct.
And that's the same -- on a year-to-date basis actually we're up or flat in 7 of 8 categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And moving on to SG&amp;A.
I'm assuming your advertising marketing was up.
That was the $25 million increase? Is that right? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And what percentage increase is that? Yes we don't disclose that but it's well above...
A little faster than sales yes.
Well above the organic sales growth.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And you referenced some investment spending in the G&amp;A line.
Can you help us understand that a bit? Yes.
I mean as we're growing in our emerging markets building capability in those areas -- so we've opened research centers in Colombia and Korea for example where we've spent some money to get those up and going.
And as we're building marketing capability and our teams around the world we're having to add some resource.
So as we go into China for example when you're growing at the rate that we're growing we've just got to build some infrastructure to be able to support that.
So that's part of the increase there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you -- are you able to give a sense of what the impact to EBIT and earnings was from currency? Yes I think we've disclosed some of that.
Paul do you want to give some of the details? Yes.
So on a translation standpoint that should be in the news release.
It was about a $25 million drag.
And then if you also add in transaction impact it's about an $0.08 drag on the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then the final one is if you could just run us through the puts and takes of the major commodity inputs as you see them now.
Yes.
In the quarter -- I mean the biggest swing was fiber which was what $45 million positive? And that's across virgin fiber as well as recycled fiber were both positive in the quarter.
Our other material buckets were about $25 million positive which is mostly polymer and super absorbent and things like that.
And then we had some distribution expense in part because of the high diesel cost in the summer that swung the other way $10 million or $15 million.
Research Division</strong> And your assumption for the balance of the year is sort of more of the same or even more favorability? Is -- when you say...
Yes.
Going forward I think the biggest shifts in our commodity cost assumptions was in pulp which is probably about $20 a ton lower than what we would have had in our last guidance and that accounts for most of it.
Oil is tracking pretty much where we thought it would.
Now obviously it has come down a little bit in the last few days but we're expecting oil to be in the mid-$90s.
And I think most of the commodities that we buy that are based on oil are kind of targeting that kind of a price.
Research Division</strong> And the pulp price you assume then? Pulp price I think for northern soft was like $870 a ton something like that.
Yes.
That's the midpoint of our full year range.
Yes.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just was curious what percentage -- or to what degree the downtime you guys have taken every year has actually been in the European diaper business or even in the -- some of the tissue areas that you may be exiting.
I wouldn't say Europe was a disproportionate part of that.
I mean if anything probably just because of the sheer size of the U.S.
business more of the downtime has happened in the U.S.
Europe has had probably its fair share but I wouldn't say it was a disproportionate part of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's not a swing factor going forward in terms of how we think about downtime? Actually in the quarter I don't think we've talked about this much but downtime was actually a slight positive in the quarter which we talked about last year.
We took more of the downtime in the third and fourth quarters and that continued a bit into the first and second quarters.
Our inventories are pretty much tracking to where we need them to be and so we're in a reasonable shape from an operating rate standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- another question on sort of how you manage the brands going forward in Europe.
So is -- are GoodNites and wipes really not marketed under the Huggies brand? Well I mean the brand in Europe is actually DryNites and the wipes is marketed under the Huggies brand name.
And so we'll absolutely do that.
In fact it's probably -- you have to be around for awhile to remember this but when we went into Europe we actually launched Pull-Ups before we launched diapers so we could be a first mover in that market.
And you have lots of wipes players in the market that aren't in the diaper category.
J&amp;J is there Beiersdorf is there.
So you've got -- there's other examples where you've got a consumer-recognizable brand that -- and a differentiated product and we can be successful in that space.
And I think as many of us know wipes are also used in lots of non-diapering households for various uses.
So it's -- we just think it's an exciting category with a lot of growth opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so sorry just to be -- the Pull-Ups is also -- is under the Huggies brand but it's...
There's probably a Huggies parentage on the packaging.
I haven't looked at it in a little while but I'd be surprised if there wasn't.
But it's big Pull-Ups little Huggies.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
First is just a couple of questions about Europe.
I remember -- I believe when Darwin pushed the company there the U.K.
was your first entry point.
And then I think you bought Mon Bebe´ in Iberia and Linostar in Italy and it looks like you're going to keep Linostar.
And I was just wondering what has been different about that business than the other regions in Europe.
And secondly could you just verify are Linostar's revenues somewhere in the I guess $100 million $150 million range a year? Yes I don't think we've used that name in a long time Chip.
So it's a -- I think the Italian diaper market we just think the margin structure is different.
The retail trade structure is different.
It's much less concentrated than other parts of Europe and so it just makes more sense for us to go to market from that standpoint.
But I think your sales are probably in the ballpark.
I don't know Paul if you...
It might be a little bit high but...
A little high yes.
Got you.
Okay.
Yes.
I think it's a -- the market in Italy is about $600 million and we're...
We're at low teen share.
Low teen share.
So...
Got you.
Got you.
And then of the 5 facilities that are going to be sold or divested is -- I mean I'm guessing -- we're obviously -- it looks like your tissue footprint really isn't changing that much over there.
I'm going to guess on the consumer side 10% to 15%.
And would that therefore mean this is just -- one of the facilities is actually a tissue mill? I think there will be several tissue mills as well as some personal care mills.
And that -- obviously we're still in the process of notifying all the teams today so we're not going to give more specifics than that at this point.
But there could -- particularly associated with some of the market exits that we're talking about.
Okay.
And obviously what you're not giving us -- I mean obviously you're -- there are some upfront cash costs and I know people have asked about this but are you -- I mean are you just being conservative and not assuming a proceeds number for some of these divestitures? Or do you just don't think they're going to be material relative to the cost? Yes.
I'd say the proceeds that we expect are the real variable in driving the range that we've provided in the guidance.
So there's some proceeds at the low end of the range and there's more proceeds at the high end of the range.
Okay.
Got you.
And last question.
As you look at the U.S.
market for tissue we're looking at like 7 or 8 restarts or new machines that are either ATMOS or TAD that -- some are private label.
I mean -- sorry some are away from home and some are private label.
And I just heard last week that the biggest guy out there First Quality is adding a third machine in South Carolina in '14 and I'm assuming that they must be getting some support from the retailers.
And I'm just wondering if -- are you seeing any impact on your business from this increase in private label capacity? Yes.
I would say not so far and there's also been capacity that's come out of the market that I think you know we've done some of it with the Everett facility coming out as well as some of the work that we're doing at Chester.
And there have been other closures by other players in the market.
So at this point you'd say boy for the year in dry bath I think private label shares are up slightly." But it's maybe like a point I think -- I think it's up -- it's up 2% and it's up 1% in towel.
So it's something that we're watching but I wouldn't say at this point that it's had a huge impact on the business.
Yes.
And from our standpoint Chip our shares are about flat in all categories in tissue this year.
So that share gain from private label is not coming out of us.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Listen.
On 2 follow ups one on North America tissue pricing and the other on Europe itself.
On tissue you talk about a more assertive or aggressive promotional calendar going into the fourth quarter.
So at this point how would you characterize the promotional environment given that pulp prices are down in the low teens? Is it as aggressive as you would expect there? Or is it the behavior by cost industries and Procter? How would you characterize the promotional environment thus far? I would say we have seen some hotter promotional price points in the third quarter and we've spent some to be competitive and to obviously protect share which we were able to do.
We -- it's difficult to tell whether that's retailer driven or manufacturer driven and so we'll obviously watch that in the fourth quarter and see how that plays out.
LLC</strong> With regards to Europe then basically could you help us understand the impact on the earnings progression in 2013? Because you're going to be taking charges in the fourth quarter my understanding is that when this stuff is done it's going to be $500 million in sales being lost.
So to what extent the costs associated with these sales are going to be matching these sales these foregone sales? So should I be worried that there's going to be a deleverage early on as we enter in fiscal '13? How -- if you can give us some preliminary thoughts about how this decision of exiting Europe is going to impact the earnings progression of next year.
Yes that's a great question and it's one the European team is intensely focused on right now is to get the cost out quickly to get them out in the fourth quarter so that as we go into 2013 we don't see a dip in our profitability in Europe.
I wouldn't expect a lot of growth from our 2012 results but that we shed that $500 million in sales and hold our profitability in Europe.
And so that's the goal and the plan.
We'll obviously give you more color on that when we provide guidance in January.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Most of my questions have been answered so I'll ask my usual on Venezuela.
Could you tell us what the impact of a 50% devaluation would be given the price declines in your categories? Yes.
You want to know the balance sheet number or the kind of ongoing business number? Both.
So the balance sheet number I think Mark we've got what a couple of hundred million in the...
A couple hundred million dollars.
In the financial assets in current U.S.
dollars.
So you'd have about a $100 million hit if you had a 50% devaluation.
And from an ongoing business standpoint I think the correct answer is it really depends on what happens to pricing.
If you have that kind of a deval and pricing controls stay in place at the levels that they're at then I think that's a big problem for everybody.
And so we'll have to wait and see.
But for perspective it's low single-digits percent of our sales and operating profit at this point.
And so we'll have to see what happens as we get more clarity on what's going on down there.
Is there any discussion with the authorities to get some pricing relief? Because it does them no good to have suppliers pull out of the market because they can't make money.
Yes.
I think obviously given that the elections just happened down there I don't think there was a lot of discussion leading up to that.
They were kind of focused on other things and trying to figure out who was going to be in charge.
And now that that's been decided we'll have to see what happens.
I think clearly the government understands what the impacts of their policy changes are and they'll have to work with the manufacturing environment to make sure they can provide for their -- for the people in Venezuela.
And so we're going to try to work with whatever rules are there and find the business opportunity that works for us and for our consumers.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll even make it shorter just -- most of the questions have been answered.
Just going back I think to Javier's question 2 ago.
So as we think about '13 is it your thought right now that the impact to '13 EPS will be minimal from the exiting of the business? Yes on an adjusted basis.
So we'll still have whatever charges will flow through.
But on an adjusted basis I wouldn't see any -- a dip in profitability.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then I guess the other question is just as you think about the organic sales and -- the first 2 quarters of the year you guys beat expectations out there in the top line.
This quarter I felt like maybe some of the B2B businesses slowed a little bit or had some tougher comparisons.
So I guess one can you talk about how organic sales kind of shaped up relative to your internal expectations and maybe where was some of the shortfall? And then two was there any change in cadence over the quarter July through September? I mean we've heard about retail seeing some week September numbers out there but -- and this is staples.
But I was just wondering if there's any type of differentiation over the course of the quarter.
Yes.
I would say if you kind of go around the businesses I'd say North American consumer was pretty close to on track in the quarter from our expectations.
B2B was a little week.
It tended to soften more late in the quarter and so some of that may be distributor inventory-related issues.
Or you had a little bit more manufacturing weakness that might have affected KCP.
KCI generally had a solid quarter and outperformed expectations pretty much everywhere was at least what we thought or even a little better.
So overall I would say it was pretty close to expectations with a bit of the over-delivery in KCI and a little softness in KCP and Health Care.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then was there any change just over the course of the 3 months? And how does October look? Yes.
I mean again I would say September was a little lighter particularly in the B2B businesses.
And it's -- October so far looks fine.
But again we'll have more visibility of it when the month is actually closed.
So...
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was a little surprised that the Consumer Tissue operating margin kind of went -- it went down sequentially if I've got my numbers right here.
Yes it's down about 40 basis points sequentially I think.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and because the volume performance was about the same as last quarter and of course the pricing was less positive.
But that was true of the Personal Care segment as well and yet the profitability in Personal Care looked quite good.
So what am I missing here? Were there more cost saves in Personal Care than Consumer Tissue? Or...
Yes.
I'd say we had more positive price in Personal Care and we actually had negative price in Consumer Tissue which we talked a little bit about.
And so that was probably the biggest single difference.
I mean I would say we still got good year-on-year margin improvement in Consumer Tissue and would expect to see that continue through the year.
And we also would say we're not satisfied with the margins where they're at that we'd like them to be closer to the mid-teens.
And so we still have work to do and have got aggressive cost savings programs going there as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Because I would think that your fiber costs actually kind of sell further sequentially.
Right? From the segment in the third quarter? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then in the fourth quarter...
Well there's been some pulp prices increases announced in the fourth quarter.
So sequentially you could see a bit of cost pressure from pulp.
And we still think it's going to be a competitive promotional spending environment out there.
So we've got to deliver the volume we've got to deliver the cost savings to get the margin improvement that we're looking for.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> A quick question for you which is you talked about sort of stepping -- new leadership stepping into this business and taking a look at where the structural advantages disadvantages are in making that decision.
You guys have been a little more static with your portfolio it seems over the past couple of years.
So can you talk to us as you look out and I'm not looking for sort of specific examples of which businesses you'd like to jettison and what have you but just sort of what percentage of your portfolio you think you need to have to sort of continual [ph] a review on? And is this something where if we look at your results over the past 12 to 18 months you've been a little bit more successful I think than some of us anticipated? Top line has been strong.
How much of this is sort of taking advantage of a little bit of a tailwind to make some tough choices? Yes.
I mean I guess I would say John we're all -- we're looking at all parts of the portfolio all the time.
And so it's not one that -- we're doing regular strategic reviews and tracking how individual businesses are performing against the plan.
And so -- and making a decision to exit the diaper category in Europe was a tough call for us.
It's one that's a business that we're in all over the world.
It's a core business for us.
But we also had to look at the harsh reality and say we've been trying to be successful over there for 20 years and we've haven't made any money.
It's not a hobby.
We've got to find a way to make a profit or we've got to think about whether we can redeploy our effort elsewhere.
And so I do give the team credit for having that conversation and framing up the discussion with us and we're going to make the decision to move forward.
And so -- but again I don't see huge chunks of the portfolio that we're unhappy with.
There's individual category/country combinations that you want to go work on and problem solve but I don't see there's huge chunks of it that I'm concerned about at this point in time.
At this time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right.
Thanks David.
We'll wrap up with a comment from Tom.
Once again we were pleased to be able to raise our guidance for the second quarter in a row and continue to deliver on our investor expectations.
There's a lot happening at Kimberly-Clark today a lot of great innovation and we're taking the right actions consistent with our global business plan to run the business for a successful future.
So thank you very much for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's call.
You may disconnect your lines now.
And have a wonderful afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding we now have your speakers in conference.
Please be aware each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you'd like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first speaker Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Here with us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with the review of fourth quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our full year results and also our 2013 outlook.
We will finish with Q&amp;A.
There is a presentation of today's materials including our key planning assumptions for 2013 in the Investor section of our website.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the risk factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook today.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The news release has further information on these adjustments and also reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 5% highlighted by 9% growth in K-C International.
Second we delivered adjusted earnings per share of the $1.37 that’s a 7% increase compared to the prior year.
Third we generated an all-time quarterly record of $1.1 billion in cash from operations.
Now let's cover the details of the quarter.
Fourth quarter sales were $5.3 billion up 3% versus last year underlying organic sales rose 5% driven by increased volumes of 3% and higher net selling prices of 2% unfavorable currency rates and lost sales in conjunction with our pulp and tissue restructuring further reduced sales by 1% each.
Fourth quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.3% that’s up 170 basis points from last year.
The increase was driven by organic sales growth and $80 million of FORCE cost savings.
For the full-year FORCE savings were $295 million.
That’s well above our original target for savings of $150 million to $200 million for the year.
We also surpassed our three-year savings target of $400 million to $500 million after just two years.
We are making great progress leveraging our global procurement organization and deploying lean continuous improvement throughout our company and I expect that momentum to continue in 2013.
So moving now to P&amp;L.
Adjusted operating profit rose 5% with an operating margin of 15%.
That’s up 30 basis points compared to last year.
We continued investment between the lines including higher administrative and research spending to build capabilities and support future growth particularly in K-C International.
In addition strategic marketing rose $10 million in the quarter.
The fourth quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 30.6% in line with our full year target of 30% to 32%.
All in all fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share were at $1.37.
That’s up 7% versus last year.
As I said before cash provided by operations in the fourth quarter was an all-time quarterly record of $1.1 billion.
That is more than double our year-ago performance driven by improved working capital and lower pension contributions.
Cash provided by operations for the full year was $3.3 billion.
That is up $1 billion compared to the prior year.
Our working capital cash conversion cycle improved two days in 2012 to a record low of 45 days for the year.
We expect to make further progress in 2013.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 3.8 million shares of KMB stock at a cost of $320 million.
For the year we repurchased 16.4 million shares at a cost of $1.3 billion.
Altogether we allocated $2.5 billion dollars of cash to share repurchases and dividends in 2012.
Now I will highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In personal care organic sales rose 9% with volume growth of 6% and net selling prices up 3%.
K-C International had another strong quarter with organic sales up 12%.
Our key growth initiatives continue to perform very well.
In fact in the diaper volumes in China grew 50% volumes in Russia rose 15% and volumes in Brazil were up 10%.
Elsewhere in personal care volumes were up mid-single digits in Europe and low single digits in North America.
Fourth quarter personal care operating margins of 17.6% rose 220 basis points driven by the organic sales growth and cost savings.
Now moving to consumer tissue.
Organic sales were up 1% driven by higher net selling prices and volumes.
Volume gains in North America were mostly offset by modest declines in Europe and in K-C International.
Consumer tissue operating margins were down 30 basis points compared to a strong year ago although they were up 50 basis points sequentially versus the third quarter.
During the quarter we also completed our pulp and tissue restructuring charges on schedule and in line with our expectations.
Our consumer tissue team did a terrific job executing a multiyear plan.
I am pleased to the operating profit margin benefits we have generated so far from these restructuring actions and I expect benefits will continue to build over the next two years.
Turning to K-C Professional organic sales were up 3% driven by improved volumes and pricing.
Organic volumes were up high single digits in K-C International down slightly elsewhere.
Operating margins of 16.7% were up 120 basis points driven by organic sales growth cost savings and input cost deflation.
Lastly health care organic sales were down 2% driven by slightly lower volumes and pricing.
Operating margins of 14.9% were up 60 basis points driven by lower input costs in between the line spending.
So that wraps up my comments on the quarter.
To recap we achieved excellent organic sales growth led by K-C International.
We delivered improved margins and earnings per share.
We generated terrific cash flow.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Since Mark has reviewed our fourth quarter results I'll focus my comments on the full year and then I'll talk about our Outlook for 2013.
So starting with 2012 overall results were very strong.
We had a great year.
On the top line we delivered organic sales growth of 5% so to put that in perspective that's our best top line performance since 2008 and it was driven by targeted growth initiatives innovation and improved net realized revenue.
In terms of targeted growth initiatives our K-C International team had an excellent year.
They had organic sales growth of 10% and a double-digit increase in operating profit.
KCI delivered strong Personal Care volume gains in key growth markets.
For example our diaper volumes increased 45% in China 20% in Russia and 15% in Brazil.
Results in all three countries benefited from product innovation.
In addition our Huggies business in China has now expanded into 80 cities.
That's up from about 70 at the end of 2011 and we are targeting it to be in at least 90 cities by the end of this year.
We also made good progress making our adult care and baby wipes businesses truly global.
For the year K-C International grew volumes in both of these categories at double-digit rate.
Elsewhere in KCI our K-C Professional business grew organic sales high single digits in 2012 as we've been making strategic investments for industrialization and economic development are recurring.
In total across all our businesses K-C International now represents about 37% of our total company sales and we continue to be very optimistic about KCI's plans to deliver strong growth going forward.
Product innovation around the world was also a key contributor to our organic growth in 2012.
We produced several innovations in North America including Super Premium Depend Briefs new U by Kotex tampons and pads and a number of new products in K-C Professional.
We also launched a number of innovations in K-C International.
That included introduction of diaper pants premium feminine care products and adult care offerings in several markets.
We supported our innovation and growth initiatives with $115 million increase in strategic marketing.
Our spending there rose at a double-digit rate.
We also increased research and development spending double digits as we continue to make investments for future growth.
Our success with targeted growth initiatives and innovation helped mitigate the impact of soft category demand in infant childcare in the U.S.
and in Europe overall.
Nonetheless our European team executed well and delivered a solid increase in operating profit and margin in 2012.
We also initiated and are moving quickly to implement the strategic changes we announced last quarter.
Our market positions remain solid overall.
In the U.S.
we improved or maintained market share in six of our eight consumer categories and in K-C International we are growing faster than the category in a number of markets.
In terms of profitability we increased gross margin by 230 basis points and we increased our operating margin by 90 basis points.
Our FORCE cost savings program was a big reason for these improvements.
I am also pleased that all four of our business segments delivered operating profit growth and improve their margins in 2012.
On the bottom line earnings per share for the year were $5.25.
That's up 9% year-on-year the high end of our long-term objective.
It was also nicely above our original 2012 guidance for the year of $5 to $5.15.
Finally as you heard from Mark our balance sheet and cash generation remained strong.
We continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways as we returned $2.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
So overall we had very good financial performance and I am encouraged by the progress we made in 2012 Now let me turn to the outlook.
In 2013 we'll continue to pursue targeted growth initiatives.
We'll introduce new and improved products and will support our brands with increased levels of strategic marketing.
We had several innovations launching in K-C International particularly in the infant care feminine care and adult care categories.
We have also got a number of new innovations coming in North America including new Depend products for men the best ever Pull-Ups training pant and improved Scott extra soft bath tissue.
As the year progresses we will have more product news in many of our other brands.
We also expect to deliver strong cost savings again this year of $250 million to $300 million.
That will help us fund our brand investments and overcome moderate cost inflation which we currently expect to be in the range of $150 million to $250 million.
Overall we are targeting to grow organic sales by 3% to 5% and to increase adjusted earnings per share by 5% to 8%.
This latter earnings guidance assumes an approximate one point drag from Venezuela.
Though we are not sure exactly what the operating margin will be in Venezuela in 2013 so we thought it made sense to build some of that potential impact into our plan.
Finally we will continue to focus on generating strong cash flow and allocating capital in shareholder friendly ways.
We expect to raise the dividend at a high single-digit rate and that will be our 41st consecutive annual increase in the dividend.
We also plan to repurchase about $1 billion to $1.2 billion worth of Kimberly-Clark stock.
Together dividends and share repurchases should total more than $2 billion for the third consecutive year.
So to summarize we are encouraged by our performance in 2012.
We are optimistic about our plans for 2013 and beyond and we remain convinced that our global business plan will continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and we will now begin to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi guys a couple of questions.
One is really around the very strong KCI growth this year at 10% organic as you mentioned.
But doing some algebra the rest of the business seemed a little more subdued.
So if you think about the 3% to 5% organic sales growth target for this year for 2013 can you help us with the composition of that by geography and by segment? And maybe in answering that can you give us some sense about the distribution gain that you might continue to get? You mentioned one example of that in your prepared remarks but any distribution gain you might be able to get on a continuous fashion? How much of a runway there is for that? Do you need that to get your extra KCI current numbers? That’s the first question.
Yes I would say Ali the growth is again going to be heavily focused on K-C International and then within that more focused on personal care as it was this year where you saw in KCI personal care organic volume was up 9% for the year.
A part of that was distribution gain in China certainly that’s also increasing our participation in the category as we moved into the midtier segment of the category.
But in markets like Brazil we are moving more aggressively in to the Northeastern part of Brazil.
So that’s a big opportunity for us.
We are there but we were not really fully represented.
So we have got additional capacity starting up there.
In Russia and in Eastern Europe we have got good presence in Moscow.
We are moving out into broader distribution reach across Russia and some of the other Eastern European countries.
So that’s an opportunity for us.
So is going to be combination of innovation and a little bit of distribution gain and good execution to make that happen.
In North America I would say the diaper category flattened out.
So the birth rates were low.
We expect diapers to be down about a point year-on-year.
Child care which was down 5 % this year may only be down 1% next year from a category standpoint.
We have got a lot of innovation coming.
So I think we will have less of a drag from North America in 2013 than we had in 2012.
We still have good momentum in adult care and fem care in North America that should carryover in to 2013.
Okay let me ask the KCI question slightly differently specifically on the 10% organic sales growth.
Can you help us figure out how much of that is comp store growth versus how much of it is distribution growth? I would say the analytics are probably not as precise there as you would like to think.
As you know because some of the Nielsen data doesn’t get you that.
I would say the bigger factor is broader participation in the category.
So in China for example going into the midtier the diaper segment across the geography that we are already in.
But going from 70 to 80 cities we can do the math.
Now they don’t all start up and contribute at the full level of your existing base and you are in the big cities to start and you are going to go that the next year down so each incremental city is not as big of a pop as what you originally got.
So I would say the more of it is from the expansion of our participation in the category and the innovation that we are driving and that the additional geography is a relatively smaller part of the boost.
Okay.
So second thing is just about the incremental strategic spending $10 million which seems lower than it's been all year.
Can you comment a little bit about that? Is it launch timing? Seasonality? How should we expect that to trend going forward for the rest of the year? It's probably launch time.
We would also say if you look back we are ramping it up and so we have kind of hit more of a stable stage so you will see it go up faster than sales in 2013 but it won't go up as much we were probably up more than double our rate organic sales growth this year.
It won't be as big of a delta in 2013.
Okay and my last question is just around competition broadly so what are you seeing and maybe make more specific U.S.
And in the U.S.
have you for example the consumer tissue business try to in your guidance take into account a new entrants in the U.S.
with TAD technology and private label.
Then in China we keep hearing from local competitors there that they are going to get more aggressive.
They are not just going to give their turf since the folks like you are coming into their cities.
Can you comment on that as well? Thank you.
Yes.
Sure.
We have lots of tough competition everywhere and so in the personal care spaces obviously we got P&amp;G most places but we are seeing UNICHARM increasingly show up in markets around the world.
They are obviously stronger in Asian.
They are now talking about expansion in Brazil and Mexico.
So they make very good product and we ran into them in large markets around the world.
Some of the local Chinese players they hang out and those folks tend to be at the lower end of the product spectrum but they are trying to move their mix up and so you got to execute well and have great innovation and great marketing to be successful in these markets and so that's what we are aiming at.
In the U.S.
the private label if you look at private label shares in tissue in bath it was up a point or two year-over-year and towels was up about point but our shares were pretty stable and actually we've got a pretty good innovation agenda for Cottonelle and Kleenex and so I think we feel are cautiously optimistic about our tissue business going into 2013 particularly in North America.
And the TAD technology entering in private label doesn't concerning you? Not at this stage.
I mean I think there is good quality private label around but we think that the branded products still are differentiated and offer consumers an attractive value and our Cottonelle business is showing that.
I mean we had pretty strong share results in the fourth quarter and we are feeling good about that business going in 2013.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to try to better understand now that I guess you probably have better look at it.
The P&amp;L impact of stranded overhead on the European exit right? So I understand you are committed to clearing that out right and still delivering obviously now 5% to 8% growth but I guess can you talk about what you think the gross drag will be from that stranded overhead.
I mean you have to be finding offset right it's not that you are going to be able to clear all those expenses out at the same rate that the sales are going away right? So just kind of want to understand the gross impact if possible.
No.
I mean Chris we are aiming to cut our overhead in Europe by at least as much of the sales right? And so it hit Kim Underhill and her team and Robert Abernathy but we are working on this for a good part of last year.
Mark Buthman's team is leading on it as well in the in terms of the back-office things and maybe Mark can chime in on that but we are aggressively going after the European structure and so we had probably overbuilt that a bit to expecting Europe to grow and to be a bigger business and so we have gone and stripped a lot of the overhead out.
They have gone through the consultation process with most of the countries and most of our team in Europe now knows whether they have a permanent role.
They have a temporary role or there are going to be other roles been eliminated.
And so I don't know Mark you have said on analyst calls lately so I'll let you add some color to that.
Chris if you think about it as an enterprise it's a great opportunity for us to kind of paint a picture of what our overhead structure might look even more broadly across the world and they have got a real compelling business case to do it.
So it's on the top of our management agenda and we are watching it closely at high degree of difficulty but high degree of confidence in the plans they put together.
So we know we have to execute it and we'll be transparent about how we are doing on that as the quarters progress in 2013.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And I guess moving over to KCI obviously the growth has been there.
Can you try to dimensionalize where you think sort of long-term margin improvement comes from? Like do you think the KCI margins will progression at a rate faster than the overall company margins? Well the KCI team is aiming at being the most attractive investment opportunity for Kimberly-Clark.
So they know they have got to grow topline and they have got to grow bottomline.
So one of the things that was really pleasing about their results in 2012 is that they had double digit topline but they also had strong double-digit operating profit growth too.
And as you see cities and markets get to scale the gross margin structure is pretty attractive and we still have got work to do and we can do better in lots of places.
But they have got an aggressive program to continue to take out cost to get more effective with our marketing investment and our trade spend investments and as we do that that should help our margins improve.
And we have individual markets in KCI that have got the gross margins that are strongly accretive to the corporation.
So we know it is possible.
Great and just one last follow-up on margins.
When you benchmark yourself versus peers and I guess normalizing for product mix and you look at that 34% gross margin that you guys are at right now what do you think the opportunity is there for that gross over the long-term? Because obviously you have accelerated your topline KCI has accelerated but what's the opportunity on gross margin when you think longer term? We have been higher in our own history and so if you go back before some of the commodity run-up we were in high 30s and we were talking about scaling a 40% gross margin.
So that’s certainly kind of a near-term goal that we are aiming at.
I think we made a strong move toward it in 2012.
We will have commodity challenges from time to time that will afford our progress there but we are certainly aiming at improving gross margin being able to invest more than strategic marketing and then delivering a part of that to the bottomline and operating margin improvement.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could help us put some numbers and maybe it’s a longer term question but around the adult diaper opportunity because again it may not be a huge contributor to earnings right now but as you model out your company five and ten years how big do you think this can get and what do you see is your major opportunities just given the number of older people in China and Japan for example? Well it's exciting even in North America our adult care business grew volume 6% last year.
So we got strong innovation behind the Poise and Depend and saw that even that’s an income consumer that’s maybe more sensitive to price change.
They were still willing to invest in a better quality product.
So we still got lots of growth in the U.S.
and your developed markets.
In the emerging markets the businesses are small but they are growing fast and we are putting more resources against it in many markets.
We have had with multiple launches in 2012.
We have got more coming in 2013.
So we think that Poise and Depend will someday be strong billion dollar businesses for us and each of those has the potential to be a billion-dollar brand.
That’s what we are aiming at.
Is that margin diluted as you grow adult versus other parts of the business? No our adult care margins within personal care are competitive with the segment average and in some markets even a little bit better.
Obviously as you launch in a market you will be investing to build the brand.
So in that particular market it will be a little dilutive but the gross margin structure is quite attractive.
Thank you and just moving to the growth of your markets.
Do you believe that you outgrew the market not just in China for example but overall? And what do you think the market growth rate will be in 2013 new markets? Broadly in the emerging markets we would say you are probably looking at mid single-digit growth and we grew high-single.
So we would say we probably took share in a number of places.
Obviously some of the Nielsen data is a little tougher to get at because they are so many of points of distribution that aren’t covered really well by Nielsen.
It is getting better but we still got some room to grow there.
So if you look at our global business we would say the categories are growing three to four much faster than that probably mid-singles in emerging markets slower than that in the developed markets.
And so our 3% to 5% topline if we just hold share we should be in the 3% to 4% range if we drive some innovation and a little bit more share growth we can get to the high end of that range as we did in 2012.
Thank you and just lastly is January off to a good start the year off to a good start? Yes so far.
I have nothing to complain about.
Yes we haven’t closed of the month yet so want to see the results but nothing unusual that we seeing in the data so far.
Cold and flu is we are benefiting both family healthcare and facial tissue.
It was pretty flat in December but it has picked up pace in January.
Yes that’s a good point.
Well I am sort of sorry but happy to hear that.
Yes good for us bad for them.
We are here for you if you need us.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Morning just two questions.
What do you think the impact will be on retail prices in the U.S.
from other new other tissue capacity that's coming on and do you think the branded companies would have to rollback prices to maintain an appropriate gap? Connie I am not as worried about the U.S.
market from the additional capacities.
There's a lot of capacity that's gone out of the U.S.
market and so as we shutdown Everett and Chester there has been some of the capacity that came out of Chester the U.S.
market operating rate is probably in the in high 80% range.
And actually we're fully loaded and we are our capacity pretty full up in 2012 and heading into 2013.
So probably more of it is what's going to drive tissue pricing and whatever happens to pulp and we're calling pulp to be up slightly in 2013 so that should put a little bit of a positive spin on pricing.
So we had a little bit softer pricing in the third quarter came back a little bit in the fourth quarter.
That had more to do with timing of promotions year-over-year so there is nothing big happening on that front so we will have to wait and see.
But overall again we feel better about our branded tissue business positioned going into 2013.
I think the place in the world you commented on the tissue capacity expansion was more in China and we don't have a big the Chinese tissue business.
We have a facial tissue business so we don't do much in roll products in China.
Great.
Thanks.
My second question is what's included in your Venezuela impact? You said you are starting to build in some of a potential impact so is it the effect of 50% devaluation or the impact of continued price controls in face of inflation so what's included in your what have you already assumed? Yes.
This has been a tough one to call because it's difficult to predict from day-to-day what's going to happen so we have not included any of the balance sheet devaluation that would flow through the income statement so none of the financial assets translation of the new rate is in our guidance so that would be a one-time thing that we have to call out.
We really looked at that and said that was very low single-digit percent of sales and operating profit in 2012 but something is probably going to happen.
Either there will be a de-val which will have a translation impact.
We didn't model it probably as deep as 50% but we assume there will be some reduction or you could have a scenario where there is de-val but it's tough to get foreign exchange and so we wind up constraining our supply because we can't get dollars to pay our bills so you wind up with a drop in demand and shrinking the size of the business and so it is very difficult to predict which of those would happened but we said probably something is going to happen so let's be a little bit conservative on that number going into the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital.
I had just a couple of questions.
One as you think about 2013 with all the changes going on with Europe and the tissue restructuring.
Is it going to be pretty smooth across the quarters or should we see that maybe back half a little stronger than the front half? I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit of the cadence there.
Yes and all the charges for the consumer tissue the North American tissue restructuring has flown through the P&amp;L amounts so those are behind us and we took a good chunk of the European restructuring hit in the fourth quarter.
If you look at the sequencing of the year I would expect actually a pretty consistent growth rate over the quarters year-on-year which would say that the back half is probably going to be a little better than the first half because that was the way it shaped up in 2012 and so you get something that will help the first quarter and like we might have a little bit lower effective tax rate because of the way the tax bill that got passed but I would say the growth rate is going to trend pretty close to a consistent year-on-year across the quarters.
Okay.
Great.
Then just the next question I think one of the earlier questions broke down the organic sales by geography and I hope you can provide some color in terms of about the segments tissue versus personal care versus kind of the B2B segment and how you are looking at those trends where you may see any tip of acceleration versus deceleration versus 2012 with getting in within that 3 to 5 range? Yes if you go through personal care we had hoped that North America will be a little better year-on-year because the categories are not going to be down as much.
So we should have I think for the year and in infant care we were down 5% and flat on child care wipes was down a little bit.
So those should be better year-on-year.
In fem and adult we are up high-singles in total for those.
I think fem was up 6% and adult was up 10%.
So I would say you would expect to see those collectively be in the high-singles in 13.
K-C International was 9%.
Now that was a terrific result.
We probably won't keep that 45% growth rate in China but we still expect to have a strong growth rate in China in 2013.
So maybe a little slower in KCI.
In consumer tissue that’s one that is playing more of a grow margin role for us.
So we had relatively light volume growth.
In North America it was flat.
Overall Europe was down a little.
Even KCI with down 1%.
So I don’t see huge growth coming in consumer tissue.
In K-C professional washroom business was up a 2%.
We think we actually grew a little bit more than the category in washroom in 2012.
We got a lot of innovation coming in 2013 and if we get a little bit of economic improvement you could see a little bit better growth and in KCP.
In KCP and in emerging markets we were up 6% on the organic volume line and we have got actually lots of growth coming there.
So I expect to see at least that in 2013.
Health care our supplies were up 2%.
Devices were up 3%.
We probably expect supplies to be a little flatter and devices to be a little better in 2013.
We have got some more innovation coming to market and a little bit better push in some things in the device front in 2013.
So I though that’s helpful for you.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
So actually the comment that you just made about consumer tissue playing more of a grow margin role for you guys is exactly what I want to ask about.
Because in this quarter margins were actually down in that business which is rare to see when there is deflation.
Thinking that the majority of your incremental investments and strategic marketing would be more oriented towards personal care than tissue I just was curious if you could talk a little about margin performance in that business this quarter? We were up 50 basis points sequentially.
For the year we were up 220 basis points in that business.
So there are some cost start up issues and a couple of things in the quarter that were a little bit more noise versus fourth quarter last year.
I think Europe also had a much stronger fourth quarter in 2011 that didn’t repeat in 2012.
So that was a part of it as well.
But overall I would say the trends in consumer tissue we are happy with.
It's back in 13.6% for the year 14% for the quarter and that’s getting close to where we need it to be from it being an investable business standpoint.
Okay can you just explain Tom some of the startup issues? Is that downtime? What is that? Actually downtime overall was a little better for the company year-on-year.
We had some broader in the fourth quarter broadly across a number of the segments.
We had a little a little bit more startup activity on new assets.
When you have a startup typically you are writing off the old assets.
So you had some higher startups and write-offs.
So probably more of it was in personal care but consumer tissue had a little bit of it as well.
We also had some higher distribution expense and particularly in K-C International.
As you are seeing carrier rates are up across the board around the world and consumer tissue probably feels that a little bit more than the other segment because freight's a bigger percent of cost of sales.
Our next question comes from James Armstrong with Vertical Research.
Good morning.
First question is on the pulp and tissue restructuring benefits.
You said that you are currently on a $60 million run rate in operating profit in the fourth quarter and expect $75 million in 2013 and more than $100 in 2014.
Just to make sure those are not incremental numbers right? So in 2013 from the Q4 run rate it will be more like $15 million.
That’s correct.
Okay.
Each of those numbers was cumulative.
So I think we had $20 million in '11 we had $40 million in '12 which gets you to $60 million cumulative.
It will be another $15 million in 2013 which gives you the $75 million and so forth.
Okay.
And how is that weighted in 2012? Should we see a little bit more than that 15 number and in 2012 or maybe in 2013 just because of the timing? No.
I mean we will obviously keep the cumulative 60 that we have already got and the big chunk of that was the shutdown of the Everett mill and that's done and behind us.
And so some of the additional things we decided to do at Chester Pennsylvania started to benefit late 2012 and will carry forward into and to 2013 and 2014.
Perfect.
Then switching gears just a bit with the recent innovation and child care have you seen any things that have worked? Any products that worked in certain regions that you are really starting to expand into other regions and could you just give us a few examples? Yes.
We have been very happy with the Pull-Ups NightTime launch and that's gone well.
We have also got a terrific GoodNites business that's in our Child Care segment and they actually had introduced a line extension of bed mats last year that was a big success in North America.
In terms of the ideas that are working well around the world our whole diaper pants approach is going very well.
We are going aggressive at both the value tier and premium tier in many markets around the world.
That's gone well.
Our U by Kotex list of feminine care positioning is one that were launching in multiple markets around the world.
And then our upgraded Depend products our adult care offerings we are offering that in many markets around the world.
So these are things that we are we are focused on and have got great solutions.
I think another example will be baby wipes.
You know we've done baby wipes in North America and Europe.
We are really having them fully reflected and penetrated in other markets around the world and now we are trying to figure out what would it take if we could sell one wipe for every diaper we sell around the world.
If we could do that we have $1 billion baby wipe business so there's a big opportunity there for us.
That helps a lot.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank You guys want to call a bottom to the baby bust because it seems you are a little bit more upbeat on.
That sounds like a quote Bill bottom to the baby bust.
I like it.
No I think the birthrate has flattened out.
We expect it to be basically flat in 2013.
The category albeit will probably still be down 1% on diapers in North America.
And I would say for us as we have modeled it the three drivers that are more predictive are male unemployment or new home purchase or household formation and consumer confidence.
And I think as you see those things stabilize you would say yes all right.
That kind of make sense but the birth rate would be flattening out.
It hasn't turned up yet but I would say you have not seen any of those three indicators really make a major positive move lately either.
Got you and then was there an impact from the flu season because I know when you talked about the North American consumer tissue business there's really no mention of facial tissue? Yes.
There wasn't much in the fourth quarter.
We're seeing that more in the start of the year.
And we worked pretty good at looking at flu index data almost by zip code and so are our retail partners and so they are very nimble about getting flu displays up as the flu move into a particular a part of the country and so both our health care business has been selling a lot of face masks and exam gloves in January and we've been selling a lot more facial tissue for cold and flu in January so we will see how that progresses through the quarter.
Got you.
Then are you concerned at all about that if you look at the business segments three to four had declined at sequential margins.
I mean was it that third quarter was kind of anomaly and everything was so good? So the point we made earlier on the other cost of sales we probably had a little bit more start ups in fourth quarter and some asset write outs that affected us versus the third quarter then distribution expense started to pick up in a couple of markets and so we are digging into that but I would say I am pretty happy with the progress for the year.
We are up in all four segments year-on-year and that's really what we are aiming to do consistently over time.
I mean is it a way to say that it was like the third quarter the anomaly or was the fourth quarter the anomaly or is it not that simple.
I don't think if I could be that precise with you.
If I would say you look at personal care and are second end of the year that if we could be flat with 2011 we would be happy and we ended the year 60 basis points higher.
So we probably are a little ahead in third quarter of where we expected and it normalized a bit in the fourth quarter but it broadly for the year we're pleased with the progress we are making.
Great.
Thanks and then just one last one.
Did you say what the sales impact of the distribution sell for the mid tier in China was? Was it material to the top line? No.
We didn't spill that out.
So I mean the midtier in China is the biggest part of the category.
So going into that was a plus.
Now we started that in mid-2011.
So it wasn’t a full year benefit but that was certainly part of the growth that we saw in China this year.
We also picked up a couple of share points in China this year which in a market that size is substantial from a sales standpoint.
Got you and maybe I missed this but can you talk about your country penetration in midtier? I am sorry not retail penetration in China? Is it down or is there I think you said still some room there? We were in 70 cities at the beginning of 2012.
We were 80 by the end of 2012.
We hope to be in 90 by the end of 2013.
As you know there are any more cities with at least a million people and that we are really not present in yet.
So we have got ways to go to really be fully penetrated.
Then there are other geographies as well.
We are moving more aggressively in the Northeastern part of Brazil.
We have been present but not really fully leveraging the opportunity there.
So we are putting capacity up there and a little more dedicated sales effort.
So that will help.
In Russia the same kind of thing where we had a strong presence in the Moscow region but we are moving into some of the other former Soviet republics in the Central Asian countries and other Eastern European countries.
Got you and I promise one last one.
Do you think that advertising spend is going to track pulp cost because it seems like that’s the way it played out this year when it went 45 to 35 and then 25 and then 10? No I think it more track our innovation pipeline.
We had more innovation that was frontend loaded this year and we are going spend behind good ideas and saw more of that than trying to drive pulp.
A good chunk of the increased A&amp;P is in personal care and in emerging markets where we are driving launch activity.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
I just would to go back to your forecast for the year and the commentary that the diaper category you expect to go down about 1% and that your expectation is that the birth rate may improve.
We had done some analysis and we see basically the sales of newborn diapers being down 1% to 2% on top of minus 4% last year.
So we thought that that would be a leading indicator of whether newborn were picking up and we don’t see that in the data.
The counter part of that is that your business is more exposed to late stage diapering training pants.
So how that plans out in terms of your better outlook in the U.S.
is number one? We don’t see that in the data yet.
Number two actually your business depends on later stage diapering.
I guess I would say Javier we are looking at from predictive model for the birth rate.
So we are looking at the male unemployment and consumer confidence also formation as more of a leading indicator of where it is going.
As we backed up that has been the best fit model.
So that model would say has been predicting that the birth rate we get less negative all year.
That is pretty much what's happened.
It's predicting for 2013 the birth rate flattens out where it is now.
So when we talked about the diaper category being down about 1% it is more that affect that as the babies haven’t been born in the last two years are not category now.
So they won't be there in 2013 either.
Certainly has affected our child care business more significantly this year as you had three or four years of birth rate decline at a total 8% or 9% that’s been showing up in our training pant business.
We expect most of that is behind us and expect a little bit better or less negative category environment in 2013 than we had in 2012.
That is good and my second question also has to do with what is your view what's happening in consumer tissue business and also in the U.S.
I mean here bath issue and paper towels.
You mentioned that private label picked up one to two points and a lot of it has come in from the competition from your main competitor which has been innovating in the category both paper towels and bath tissue and they are losing share.
You guys don’t seem to be losing share.
Could you help us understand how you see the consumer dynamics and why you are not been as pressured by private label as your competitors has been? Thank you.
Yes we had more innovation.
So if you look at the fourth quarter our Kleenex volumes were 1% Cottonelle was up 8% Scott bath was up 1% our Viva towel business was done a 2% and Scott towels is up 11%.
So some of that was promotional timing some of it we had good innovation on Cottonelle and it's a terrific product.
And so I think we just continue to try to make sure we get quality promotion we are doing great marketing we keep bring innovation to the category and that makes it tougher for the private labels to fight against that so it's a pretty simple formula.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Just want to follow-up a little bit on Chris's question but sort of thinking about the margin structure in Europe longer-term how should we think about where you guys can go as you get through some of the stranded overhead issues? What do you think is a sort of the long-term structural upside to margins there? Thanks.
Yes.
I would say medium-term we would say double-digit operating margin is a reasonable goal which would be a good improvement from where we have been but then as Kim and the team look at that they'd say long-term they would like Europe to be at least equal to the corporate average and so they have got some work to do to get there.
They don't have all the answers to figure that out but we've got good businesses in categories that are growing in Europe and the whole point of this restructuring effort is to the free up that team to focus on driving our baby wipes business where we've got good accretive margins and driving our child care and DryNites businesses where we've got strong margin opportunities and making our Kleenex and Andrex and Scottex businesses successful in Europe and there are already great brands with great market positions but we've got to put more up innovation and investment behind them to make them produce the kind of returns that we are looking for.
So I think we got to execute the plan in front of us and get to a stable consistent place and then look how we can grow that from there.
Okay so just a follow-up on that.
It sound as though you feel like you guys there is nothing structural to the categories themselves in Europe that would limit that.
It's a question you are being able to go out and execute that? Well I think in Europe the big thing you worry about particularly in tissue is private label so the private label structure in Europe is very different from anywhere else in the world where you are seeing bath tissue in some markets shares North of 70% for private label so you've got be much probably a little bit more cost conscious and your innovations got to pop a little bit more to break through that.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris.
Hi.
I was just wondering if on your projections for $150 million to $250 million of input cost inflation is there any way to split it up roughly between like second half and first half? I would think quite a bit more in the second half.
Well about two thirds of it is pulp and recycled fiber and you probably are right that in the first part of the year at least the first quarter that doesn't look like there is going to be as much of that showing up so far so that's probably a fair comment.
Okay that's actually all I had.
Thanks.
At this time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right thank you David.
We will wrap up with the closing comment from Tom.
Once again we had a strong performance in 2012 and we are looking forward to keeping the momentum going in 2013 and thank you for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and a wonderful weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to ask if you would like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today’s first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Here with me today in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
After an opening comment from Tom Mark will begin with the review of first quarter results.
He will also provide an update on the strategic changes we are making in Europe.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year and we will finish with Q&amp;A.
We have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investors section of our website which is kimberly-clark.com.
We will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning’s news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Well good morning everyone.
I just thought it would be appropriate for me to start this morning by commenting that we are well aware that the eyes of the nation are on the events that are unfolding this morning in Boston and I just like to start by offering our condolences regarding the tragic event that happened earlier this week in Boston and please know that the thoughts and prayers of everyone at Kimberly-Clark as well as those of the entire nation are with the families of the victims of this terrible event.
I’d also like to let you know that we are sitting down here in Dallas Texas very close to the small town of West Texas and so we would like to also extend our deepest sympathies to our neighbors to the south as they deal with the aftermath of the explosion of the fertilizer plant that happened at that small community this week.
So it’s truly been a difficult week for Americans in various places across the country.
So I just thought we should start with that and remind everyone what’s really important going on around us today but with that I will turn it over to Mark Buthman.
Okay thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Let me start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 3% that included increases of 6% in our North American consumer tissue business and 5% in K-C International.
Second we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $1.48 that’s an all-time record and up 19% year-on-year boosted by strong cost savings.
And third we continue to allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways through dividends and share repurchases.
Now let’s cover the details of the quarter.
First quarter sales were $5.3 billion up 1% versus last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 3% versus a tough comparison of 6% growth a year ago.
The results this quarter were driven by increased volumes of 2% higher net selling prices of 1%.
Unfavorable currency rates and lost sales in conjunction with our restructuring activities each reduced sales by 1 point.
First quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.6%.
It’s up 140 basis points from last year.
The increase was driven by organic sales growth and $85 million of FORCE cost savings partially offset by $35 million of input cost inflation.
We are off to a great start with our FORCE program this year relative to our full year target of $250 million to $300 million.
Our teams are pushing hard to free up funds to reinvest to field our business and to drive additional bottom line growth.
Moving down to P&amp;L between the line spending increased 10 basis points as a percent of sales and that was driven by small increases in G&amp;A.
Strategic marketing spending was down slightly mostly due to the timing of innovation launches which relative to last year are going to be more towards the latter part of the year.
Other income and expense benefited from a gain in the sale of some non-core assets.
Adjusted operating profit rose 16% with an operating margin of 16% that’s up 200 basis points compared to prior year.
Really encouraged by our margin performance to start the year as both our growth and operating margins were highest we have achieved in 3.5 years.
The first quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 30.8% now that’s up from last year but its in-line with our full year targeted at 30% to 32%.
Equity income was up 36% in the quarter as K-C Mexico had a great start to the year.
So putting it all together first quarter adjusted earnings per share rose 19% to a $1.48 as well above of what we expected three months ago and plus continued momentum in KC International strong cost savings and above plant volume growth in our North American consumer tissue business.
Now turning to cash flow cash provided by operations in the first quarter $607 million that’s up 4% year-on-year.
The improvement was driven by earnings growth a smaller increase in working capital relative to last year now is partially offset by higher cash debt payments.
We continue to allocate capital and shareholder from ways with the first quarter dividend payments in share repurchases totally nearly $800 million.
In February we announced our 41st consecutive annual increase in the dividend the 9.5% increase should help maintain our position as a top-tier dividend payer.
In addition we repurchased $0.5 billion of KMB stock in the quarter.
We continue to expect full year repurchases to be between 1 billion and 1.2 billion.
Now I’m going to highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
We first look here organic sales growth is 4% with volume growth of 3% and net selling prices up 1 point.
Compared to a tough comparison of the year our toughest comparison for the year KC International had another good quarter with organic sales up 7%.
We continue to make excellent progress with targeted growth initiatives in KCI.
This momentum helped offset volume declines in Venezuela and in Australia where heavy diaper promotions last year affected the comparison.
Tom will talk more about KCI in minute.
Also in Personal Care organic sales were flat in North America and up double digits in Europe.
First quarter Personal Care operating margins of 18.4% rose a 150 basis points.
Improvement was driven by organic sales growth cost savings and higher production volumes personally offset by increased by between the lines investment cost inflation and unfavorable currency effects.
Moving to consumer tissue organic sales were up 5% a volume growth of 4% and slightly higher selling prices.
The volume increase was highlighted by double digit growth in North America for high margin Cottonelle bath tissue and KLEENEX Facial Tissue both brands improved market shares in the quarter.
In addition Cottonelle benefited from increased promotions support in a strong cold flu season help boast KLEENEX volumes.
Consumer tissue operating margins rose 200 basis points in the quarter.
Margins benefited from organic sales growth cost savings and lower between the lines spending partially offset by cost inflation.
Turning to KC Professional organic sales were even with last year has improved pricing in (inaudible) set by slightly lower volumes.
Despite a relatively flat top-line our KCP team continues to drive our profitability by delivering cost savings and improving mix.
First quarter operating margins of 18% were up 230 basis points year-on-year.
Lastly healthcare organic sales were down 1% driven by lower surgical and infection prevention volumes which were impacted by a slowdown in surgical procedures in the U.S.
in the first quarter.
Operating margins were down 200 basis in the fourth quarter overall healthcare results were behind plan but our team is focused on improving performance throughout the balance of the year.
Before I turn it over to Tom let me update you on a strategic changes we’re making in Europe.
Overall we’re moving quickly to implement the changes.
We’re on track with our operating plan for the year.
We have stopped selling Huggies diapers in 13 countries so far.
We expect to exit the remaining five markets in this second quarter so the impact on our top-line will build over the remaining part of the year.
Our diaper facility in the UK will start production mid-March and our Spanish facility is likely to close in May.
We have also reached agreements to sell our polish consumer tissue business and that transaction is expected to close on the third quarter.
Given our progress so far we have narrowed our estimate for cumulative charges by raising the low end of the range by $50 million we continue to expect the cash cost will be 50% to 60% of the total charges for the restructuring program.
Now regarding the brands we’re retaining in Europe it's solid performance in the first quarter and as bath tissue volumes improved and our market share rose into the high 30s in Personal Care Huggies baby wipes volumes grew at a double-digit rate.
So we got more work ahead of us in the next two quarters will be important as we shed additional sales in overhead cost but I am confident that our European team has focused and now execute the plan very well.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we generated solid organic sales growth.
We delivered strong margins an all-time record adjusted earnings per share and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and since Mark has reviewed the quarter in detail I will just add that our overall results were excellent.
So we are only one quarter into the year and we have got more work to do but I am pleased with our solid organic sales growth our strong margin improvement record earnings per share and our capital allocation which was very shareholder friendly.
So I want to focus my comments this morning on our consumer businesses in North America and K-C International and then I will talk about our full year outlook.
So let me start with North American consumer.
The two primary objectives for this business this year are to improve our brand positions and to increase our operating profit and we are off to a very good start in both areas.
In terms of market positions we improved or maintained market share in 7 of the 8 consumer categories that we track.
And that included solid gains in Kleenex facial tissue Pull-Ups training pants Huggies baby wipes U by Kotex feminine care products and our Poise and Depend brands.
As Huggies diapers were shared through down about 1 point versus the last year quarter we are currently launching our best ever snug and dry diaper and an improved slip on diaper.
So regarding the bottom line our North American consumer business had a very good quarter with excellent FORCE savings improved manufacturing costs and volume growth in our high margin brands including Poise Depend and Pull-Ups.
Now that’s particularly true in consumer tissue where volumes for our Kleenex and our Cottonelle brands were very strong as Mark mentioned.
Although that level of volume growth would be tough to repeat we are encouraged by our momentum that we are optimistic about our second quarter innovation that we have got coming on both of those brands.
So I am pleased with our overall performance in our North American consumer business.
Now let’s shift to K-C International.
Our first quarter organic sales growth was more than 5% and that’s consistent with our first quarter plan for the year.
KCI faced it’s most difficult comparison of the year in the first quarter with 13% organic sales growth in the base period last year and we continued to expect that KCI will deliver high single-digit organic sales growth for the full year.
Working together with our global brand teams KCI is making further progress with these growth initiatives.
In diapers we continued to innovate across our portfolio and we have expanded diaper pants in the more parts of the world but that strategy continues to deliver strong results in key markets.
In China where Mark and I were just visiting recently our diaper volumes increased 50% and they have benefited from innovation market share gains and category growth.
Huggies are now available in 85 cities in China and that’s up from about 80 cities at the end of last year.
In Russia our diaper volumes increased by about 10% in the quarter.
As in Brazil diaper volumes were up by about 5% and were affected as expected by selling price increases that we recently implemented because of the weaker real.
The increased pricing and improved product mix brought total organic sales growth in Brazil for diapers to be about 15%.
And in all three of these markets we have premium diaper innovation launching in the second quarter.
We also have new manufacturing facilities starting up in China and Brazil to support our growth plans.
And other businesses within K-C International are feminine care organic sales were up high single-digits and we continue to rollout premium executions that are very similar to the U by Kotex launch in North America.
And finally in adult care and baby wipes both of these businesses delivered double-digit organic sales growth in the quarter building on our momentum that we achieved last year.
And just like we have got in North America we are building the adult care category in K-C International with our Poise and Depend brands.
And in baby wipes we have good momentum in South Korea and Latin America and we will be expanding capacities to support our growth plans.
So overall we remain very excited about our prospects to drive strong top and bottom line growth in K-C International.
Now let me turn to the outlook.
In terms of our 2013 earnings guidance we are now targeting adjusted earnings per share in a range of $5.60 to $5.75 raising about $0.10 higher than our previous outlook and reflects our strong first quarter performance and our plans to continue to reinvest back in the business for our long term success.
We expect to make additional progress on targeted growth initiatives with a particular focus on KC International and we have a lot of innovation coming in the balance of the year and we will support that innovation and these growth initiatives with higher levels of strategic marketing.
We also got a number of new assets starting that will support our growth plans later this year.
The same time we will continue to focus on generating cost savings to make sure we can fund our investments and improve our profitability.
So far input cost and currency rates are tracking in the range of our previous assumptions.
We’re optimistic about our opportunities and we believe that our prospect to drive profitable growth have never been better.
So to summarize we’re off to an excellent start in 2013.
We’re pleased with our progress but we’re reaching for more and we remain convinced that our global business plan will continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we will begin to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from (inaudible).
Wanted to ask I noticed you had a pretty accelerated pace of buyback in the first quarter I mean more than half of what you plan to do for the year and I was just wondering with the strong results why you might not top that up a little bit given that you have already done so much.
Our plan heading into the year just like we did last year was to be a little bit front end loaded on share repurchases given the cost of commercial paper.
We’re still holding course we had a billion to billion two in our outlook for the year we still think that’s a good plan.
So if it plays out if we have more cash flow obviously that’s one of the options we have got to deploy it.
Got you and the second question I had was and I might be missing a little something here but on K-C International I never said in tissue I know that’s not the bigger focus it's obviously personal care and you mentioned that the volumes grew 4% and of course you’re coming off a strong 12% gain a year ago.
What should we see that sort of normalize that in personal care in the emerging K-C International markets I mean it's 4% kind of the number we should go with as we look ahead or I think based on Tom’s comments should we look for something maybe a little bigger than that going forward.
I think in K-C International the volumes were pretty flat on consumer tissue.
We did take up some price and mix on that front and that’s done well I think the volumes were down a percent.
So again we’re not adding a kind of additional capacity there and are focusing on driving mix in revenue realization and getting our margins up and you saw some of that improvement in the quarter.
I was really talking more about personal care.
On the personal care front I would say the toughest comp in the first quarter and so we would expect to see what the innovation picking up in the last three quarters of the year we will see a little bit better growth from personal care going forward.
Yes if you look at relative to our 3% to 5% top-line Chip obviously personal care in KCI is going to be higher as part of a mix.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
I just wondered if you could talk a little bit more about exactly what surprised you in the first quarter and I guess just trying to reconcile that with the guidance sort of the rest of the year.
Last call you talked about actually expecting the second half to be improved relative to first and it doesn’t feel like that’s consistent with the current guidance and I know you were just talking about the innovation type one (ph) and that will flow through the next few quarters so can you give a little bit of color there?  Yes that’s a fair push so that’s a two things one is consumer tissue in North America was really way ahead of expectations and so Cottonelle volumes were up double digits KLEENEX facial tissue was up double digits and on the facial tissue front that’s probably more of a strong cold and flu season phenomenon and the Cottonelle front one of our primary branded competitors that’s not a public company has had some product supply problems and they sensed I know that’s what their customers have indicated they were going to have trouble supplying and that certainly helped our business and it showed up and they would share a loss and our volume gain in the first quarter.
So we ran everything full and try to take advantage of as much of those business opportunities as we could.
So that certainly helps us.
We assume they will work their way out of that problem later in the year and so that’s where we don’t expect that level of volume growth in Cottonelle to continue at that kind of a rate.
So that was one thing.
And then I think the other thing that was a big positive for us was cost savings so we had a very strong start to the year on FORCE.
Now you could say gosh you are over $80 million in FORCE in the third quarter and fourth quarter of last year.
So why were you surprised but it was a stronger start to the year than we had probably forecasted.
That should bode well for our results in the balance of the year.
Okay.
And just looking at the European restructuring a little bit you commented that you aren’t selling Huggies in I guess 13 countries and moving out of the remainder but I presume you are still selling diapers as with the comments about I think 14% private label growth.
And I am just wondering when would you expect to see that trail off?  We will honor all of the private label contract commitments we have with our customers in Europe.
And so we signed those contracts they had a certain data which they would renew and we will fulfill the terms of the contract.
We will also – we are going to sell diapers in Italy as we noted in the restructuring and there may be some other private label contracts that will retain post the shutdown of some of the facilities in the UK and Spain.
So I think the good news on the European front is that our other personal care categories in consumer tissue we saw a good growth in the retained portfolio and we are investing in those and things like Andrex Washlets in the UK.
Our Pull-Ups business had a nice improvement in Europe.
Our baby wipes business is growing like crazy.
And so the strategy that we have had of focusing more on those growth opportunities in that market very early days that we are encouraged by the first quarter performance.
Okay thanks very much.
Thanks Gail.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Good morning Wendy.
Hi good morning.
My first question is on China specifically I know you said that you have gone into I think five new cities but can you comment on the competitive environment in China and how your strategy is unfolding in terms of going down market a little bit in pricing? And then second question and I really apologize if I missed it but did you give us guidance for the year like volumes price mix sales growth if that’s in the press release I didn’t see it?  Okay.
Then on the first question on China Mark and I were just in China and so we did the grand opening of our new mill in Nanchang and got to meet with the China team again and they are doing pretty well.
And so our strategy in Huggies of going to the mid-tier has gone well and so we are not going all the way down to the lowest tiers in China where we are staying in the mid to premium tiers.
And in fact they are just launching a new Huggies platinum which is a super-premium tier on top of our existing premium tier.
So we will have three product offerings in China in the very near future which we will think will appeal to the moms in China they want the very best product for their babies.
I would say the competition from Unicharm is probably the toughest and to a lesser extent Kao P&amp;G the factor in every segment over there but we would probably see the toughest competition from Unicharm and Kao at this point in time.
But it’s an exciting market and the team is very energized by success and they are reaching for more.
On the guidance front our primary assumptions didn’t change from our full year estimates that we gave you earlier.
So in organic volume for the year we are looking at overall 3% to 5% organic sales growth 2% to 3% volume 1% to 2% pricing mix currency is going to be about a point drag for the year and then we will have a couple of points of restructuring drag for the year.
And so that hasn’t changed since January which is why we didn’t say anything about it in the release.
So the $0.10 lift to the estimates is maybe a little bit from K-C Mexico it’s a little bit on the margin side but it sounds like most of your assumptions are kind of the same as they were?  Well probably we are a little bit ahead in consumer tissue in the beginning of the year.
Cost savings are tracked a little ahead and obviously Mexico is part of it but we would expect that Mexico will have a good year just based on where the peso was trading but we planned together.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
I wanted a little bit deeper in terms of the kind of dichotomy between all other segments in consumer tissue because without the consumer tissue success I think top-line at least would have been somewhat of disappointing top line results for most folks.
So I’m kind of understanding consumer tissue I think you have explained us through flu and Cottonelle in particularly.
What was the little bit more disappointing I guess on the other end of things whether it be personal care or in particular KCP or healthcare.
Still with healthcare we were surprised and a little disappointed.
In fact we started out the year with healthcare was a little bit of a flu pandemic scare and sold a bunch of a face mask in January so we started out pretty strong but then actually you have seen this from some of the healthcare companies that have reported surgical admissions are done about 4% in the first quarter and nobody can figure out why and so everybody has got a hypothesis as to what’s going on but we haven't got a good read on that and so I would say as the quarter played out just the underlying category volumes in healthcare we’re little disappointing and in K-C Professional our washroom business in North America we saw a kind of low single digit top-line which would be as expected but the safety business was off part of that was we decided to shut some business in that segment which we knew about but I would also say that it's maybe reflective of kind of a weaker manufacturers environment than maybe we would have hoped going into the year and that’s probably is tracking somewhat with what you’re hearing in markets around the world.
KCI obviously we’re looking at that as a global deal and so yeah we were slower in Europe than we thought we were going to be we were a little slower and other parts of the emerging markets that we thought we were going to be in.
So the B2B business were generally a little slower on the top-line than we would have thought in the plan.
I would just add that overall personal care was right on track with our plan that obviously was a segment that had really strong results last year during the quarter so you probably want to take a look at the comparisons before you take that into account as it reflect on what personal care did this quarter.
You think about the margin story here still in the quarter net-net top-line I think was roughly (inaudible) but the margin is really the big surprise and can you talk a little bit more in detail about disaggregating that? So how much of it was volume leverage? How of it was non-leveraged cost cutting within I think it includes volume leverage in FORCE and how much of it was price realization or something that I’m missing?  We don’t include volume levers in FORCE since FORCE is about 85 million and so FORCE net that against the input cost increase was certainly a big driver of that.
Better volume was just all by itself was about 30 million and if you look at the change in unabsorbed fixed cost which we track that was another 15 million.
So you could look at it and say cost savings is about half of our gross margin improvement and volume including down-time related volume effects was about the other half of it.
And certainly if you’re sustainable it sounds like that the way you’re talking through it.
On the fixed cost absorption front we took most of our downtime in late 2011 and early 2012 to get inventories in line so the comps will be much easier on that front in the first half of this year so that will start abate a bit in the second half of the year but again we would expect with some of the innovation that we have coming that we will have decent volume growth in the last nine months.
Okay my last quick question is on KCI because it's a (inaudible) business and growing so.
It's certainly looks like it slowed a bit you can discuss comps et cetera but one thing that I want to get your perspective is this continued seemingly difficulty of taking pricing in KCI personal care and that might be a competitive issue that maybe a mix issue but try to understand that outside of Latin America pricing in that category KCI-PC.
We typically take a lot of price where you got cost issues or currency swings and so if you look at the markets where you had this quarter really the two big markets Brazil and Argentina where there has been the most currency movement as where we got the most price.
In the balance of KCI you look at like China for example there hasn’t been a lot of currency movement there hasn’t been a lot of commodity cost get really in the Personal Care space.
And so we are really focused on driving innovation driving mix and so launching a Tier 6 diaper in China is going to do more for us from a margin and putting revenue in the category standpoint than trying to drive a list price change.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Ali.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Good morning Linda.
Hi just maybe you could give a little more information just to help me understand because in terms of your organic sales growth I assume you are still kind of thinking 3% to 5% for the year the previous guidance and it was at the low end in this first quarter but you have more innovation coming later but you have some stuff that kind of helped it like the flu season but I don’t see the comparisons actually getting that much easier.
You were pretty strong for all the quarters of last year just the third quarter was up 3% but the other quarters were up 4% 5% 6% so how do we have confidence really that you can do little better than 3% later or is this going to be 3% for the year or can you give a little more color on the comparisons issues?  Yeah I think that’s fair.
We said our organic target for the year is 3% to 5%.
We said organic volume is 2% to 3% and price mix is 1% to 2% and so we kind of came in at the low end of that in the first quarter.
But we really got most of our heavy up innovation coming in the last nine months of the year and we are pretty bullish on what we are going to be doing there.
And so I think to move from the bottom end of the range to the top end of the range on organic volume is very doable.
And so I think where the plan is unfolding about is we thought it would and we look for that to deliver the things we would worry about a little bit as the continued weakness in healthcare surgeries if that will be a drag and we would like to see a little bit of an economic improvement benefit KCP but on the consumer front we feel pretty good about what we have got common in KCI and in North America.
Okay.
And then can you just give an update because it’s been a while since the feminine care the new brand U was launched and can you give us an update on like how that’s doing like what market share it has achieved maybe in the different categories of pads and tampons and all that? And then secondly can you give an update on the slip-on diaper because you said there will be an innovation coming on that? Is that an innovation because you need to improve it because it wasn’t working or is that just an innovation to just drive it further in terms of market share gains?  Yes sure.
You would like those as we have made steady share progress in the U.S.
I think it’s up to a little over seven shareholder category now and our total Kotex share is trending around 18 which is up several points from when we started that the U launch.
And so we have little bit of softness on volume on our Kotex natural balance in the first quarter and made up for that with continued growth of U by Kotex and have more innovation coming on that brand as the year progresses.
And what was your second question Linda?  Just an update on slip-on?  Slip-on diapers is just continuing to work on improving the product.
And so I would say as you know we normally do we can consistently launch renovation improvements to our diaper and pant lines around the world.
And so it’s a nice improvement to the slip-on diaper one.
Again it’s one that we would like that to be to pick up a little bit from a share standpoint it’s a big idea around the world and so it will be a good improvement for mom.
Okay.
And just one last thing on you said you are going to sell a business in the third quarter of the Polish tissue business I think like does your guidance for the year include a potential gain on sale that might be included in your earnings then or will that be…  Yes there was a gain and nearly that’s not what I will go through the restructuring line and no there won’t be any – there is nothing related to that that would be in our guidance.
Okay.
And then the restructuring cost savings in the quarter are you including that in FORCE savings or is that separate and I am projecting restructuring savings of $40 million for the year is that about right?  Well in the first quarter we had about $5 million related to the tissue restructuring that was not included in FORCE.
So that would have brought the total into $90 million including that and coming in the full year.
Linda the $40 million would be right between 2013 and 2014 that would get to our full year $100 million run-rate at the end of 2014 for 2013 it will only be about $15 million.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Do you think this is the peak less margin quarter for the year? I just kind of looking at the year-over-year comparison.
I hope not we feel pretty good about the momentum and lot of things working well.
You would say on the gross margin front we should see a little bit of increased cost inflation although in the first quarter we had 35 million which is not too far off our annualized rate of the guidance so we set a 150 to 250.
So I think we will see how that plays out but we’re encouraged by our progress.
As we have launched more innovation we’re aiming forth to be margin accretive so that should give us a little bit of upward bump on gross margin as well.
So we’re focused on building that overtime Bill and we hope the first quarter was a good step in that direction.
Okay and then are you tempted to change you’re sort of growth algorithm maybe not in the sales line but it seems like the business mix has shifted so much and a lot of low end margin stuff is out in the business.
So shouldn’t it be kind of a catch up period in terms of eBay growth which maybe kind of gets you a lift sort of mid-single digit operating profit growth target that you have in the long term.
I think the other thing we’re looking for is particularly with the strong start this year where can we accelerate investments that will benefit our future growth and are we making sure we’re investing in the brands at the right level to fully take advantage of the innovation opportunity that we have.
So we’re strategic partnering in the first quarter was a little bit lower growth rate than past quarter’s but we think for the full year we’re still going to be increasing that and that will be another that we will look for investment.
I would say Bill over the long term 6% to 9% bottom-line we like to hit that consistently and it's going to require gross margin important continued investment in the business to do that and so that is consistently hitting our algorithm is really our goal.
And just the private label the big private label boast in Europe is there a change in strategy there? So are you guys going to sort of open yourself to all those private label contracts in some of the smaller markets?  I think that was kind of a tactical move a couple of years ago they are still up existing capacity and as we have excited facilities I think that will be a smaller player in the private label market in Europe overall.
It was a big move right? I mean I think you said organic sales grew up 14% and first in Europe is that just going to get rid of some of the old diaper stuff as you hold the factories down.
These were contracts that we entered into last year.
So (inaudible) moves like that in the last couple of quarters of 2012 and it's really just contracts that we picked up last year that were roughly a yearlong that will roll off in the second and third quarter.
And remember Bill Baby Wipes volumes were also up-strong double digits also and we’re keeping that business.
Our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions one I was wanting if on U.S.
both questions are on the U.S.
and if you could talk about the retail environment the course of this quarter we heard comments in some of your big retailers out there about some pressure that we’re seeing so I guess one I was wanting if you could just talk about the competitive landscape what you’re seeing out there I know in the food side it looks a little more promotional.
So just wondering what you might be seeing up there on the HPC side personal care and tissue and then I have a follow-up question.
I will ask afterwards.
It's a tough quarter and retail generally just when you look at some of the comps but I would also say that our categories in consumables they have generally done much better than food in some of the other categories we’re are more of an essential product line and we’re also encouraged to see consumers are still responsive to innovation so when we look at how our new (inaudible) products these products are performing in the market some of the Baby Wipes products are there in the market.
These are our premium priced line extensions and they are doing pretty well from a category standpoint.
We saw consumer is still willing to pay for a better product.
Okay that makes sense.
And then I guess the more specific question is on just U.S.
diaper and help me with math right now I guess U.S.
diapers of about 15% of your total sales? Is that right?  Globally for U.S.
diapers?  So U.S.
diapers are at 15% of your total company sales after all the adjustments?  Yeah I mean we would normally don’t get into that level of detail but if you can look at our market shares in the mid 30s I think you could get a pretty good approximation.
So I guess what I am trying to figure out is that can you talk about where the category trends are now because I know last year they were still down I think at these mid single-digit and its birth rates are starting to stabilize.
There should be like a nice swing I guess to your organic sales calculation so if you go from negative 6 maybe over the next two years 2% there is like about 800 basis point kind of swing I guess on the organic sales calculation you multiply that by 15% that’s over 100 basis points of organic sales.
So I guess can you just talk me through where we are right now what are you seeing out there and you expect over the next maybe two years that you actually see that migration from significantly negative category trends to modestly positive.
Can you just kind of walk me through some math here?  Yeah sure.
If you look at the diaper category last year it was probably down a couple of points and our expectation for this year that will be down about a point.
And the training pant category last year was down more than that and that was more of the three years of low birth rates piling up in the category as kids tend to be start Pull-Ups training around age 3 and so training pants is down mid single-digits last year.
And it’s encouraging to see our training pant business is modestly positive and that’s probably because there is some penetration opportunity still in that category and we have driven things like GoodNites and Little Swimmers which we count in that metric.
And those were doing better than the overall training pant category would have performed.
So I would say you are probably a little high in your estimate of diapers as a percent of sales and you are probably a little more negative in terms of where the comp was last year and where it’s going.
So I wouldn’t expect you are going to see as much top line lift.
And at this point we would say the birth rate seems to have bottomed out.
We hope that it will turn slightly positive later this year but it will be – the category will still be down a point for the year and hopefully will see a flatter category in 2014.
Okay thanks for the reconciliation.
Thanks guys.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Hello Lauren.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just another consumer tissue margin because this was I think just north of 15% the best it had been since 2004 and knowing that there was the benefit little bit of help from flu season this quarter just want to get some perspective on whether you think 15ish percent obviously has been give and take quarter-to-quarter is sustainable and whether using consumer tissue margins could be higher than mid-teens over time?  Well you may have recalled that we were when tissue margins were down in the high single-digits that we weren’t pretty – we weren’t happy with that and we were aiming to get back to the mid-teens.
And so now that we are back at the mid-teens you can imagine that we are not totally happy with that and we wanted to go higher still and so it’s been a good focus on mix and revenue generation and driving premium utilization and launching innovation.
And so as you look around the company thinks like we will have a lot of flushable moist wipe launches this year in North America and all over the world and we are starting to look at other things that we can do with our great tissue brands that bring more margin and revenue into the category.
And so that’s I think just starting to take hold and so we do have more opportunity to drive margin north in the future and rest assured the team is not stopping at 15%.
Let me just on the topic of innovation then with the flushable wipes example that’s maybe not a terribly nice question but sometimes ideas you guys have had that strike you as big ideas haven’t been quite as successful as hoped whether it’s the hand towel or past efforts at flushable wipes like that what if anything is different now is it just keep trying until the consumer catches up?  Well I think we are better marketers than we probably were.
We tried it in the past.
We are listening better to the consumer.
We got as you see some of the flushable moist execution there actually this category has been growing.
It's just finally get on the radar screen and we’re getting it in more market.
So we have had terrific launch in the UK for example behind android’s watch list.
And we will take some of that learning and take that into other markets and so I think it.
There is a consumer need there and we got better and better product executions and we’re talking consumer about it in ways that are memorable and starting to drive some new habits.
I think it's fair to say it's takes longer but one of our learning is when you’re trying to change habits it just takes longer versus the product you’re improving the consumer uses every day so that’s probably fair.
Okay and then just final question on this your outlook in general for pricing in tissue in North America much has been talked about some of the private label capacity and improving quality and so on and so forth and it certainly sounds like this quarter was a large and not publically traded having some challenges you were bit protected for now but is your outlook at pricing in this tissue category pricing not mix with the same price can remain as positive and stronger as it has been.
I would say generally tissue pricing broadly followed big moves in pulp pricing.
So our outlook for pulp is pretty stable.
We’re talking about up 20 bucks a ton or something like that for the year and I think given that you’re unlikely to see big swings in tissue pricing.
That doesn’t mean that it won't be promotional activity at the edges but if we do a great job of driving innovation we should be hopefully let promotional which winds up with more revenue at the end of the day.
And just one house keeping question you mentioned that if there was any gain on the Polish sales wouldn’t it be part of your numbers but in the release this quarter you mentioned the worse gains on asset on the numbers but so I don’t wants the difference or was it just…  We sold some real estate in North America that we didn’t need and so that goes into other income and expense.
So if it wasn’t related to any of the restructuring activities.
And that’s the difference because it was related to restructuring it would have been excluded.
Yes.
So if we took a facility that we took a write-off on and has a gain we don’t take the write-off and as excluded item and then take the gains through operations.
We play straight down the middle.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
It was kind of striking when you were talking about in diapers in China that I guess you called that Uni-Charm and Kao is the biggest competitors in not so much profit and for probably the largest share play in the market.
Just wondering why that is.
We look at the best performing product in the market and test against that product to make sure we can make competitive claims and so Uni-Charm and Kao both make some terrific products particularly in the diaper pants area where we’re growing in many of those markets and they have the strongest product offer that we’re aiming at and so we test against those and it also make terrific diapers that we have tested again.
So Procter is in that for a while and Uni-Charm and Kao are aggressively trying to grow those parts of the business.
So we feel like we’re in the share battle with them as much as anybody.
And I guess on another note in Europe I hear you’re on the 13 countries exited can you give an update on sort of the cadence of cost coming out so I know you’re saying for the full year the cost is going to come as fast as the sales have but was that the case for Q1 as well like was there a net profitability impact of the European piece this quarter?  Europe had a very solid start for the quarter so overall their profit was up versus prior year and tracking with the plan even a little bit ahead of their plan and second and third quarter is going to be the key turning point for the cost the back office cost in particular and the team in Europe is monitoring execution of that plan very carefully and I’m confident they are going to deliver on their goals for the year.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
My question is about the hikes in your commodity cost they were up 35 million in the first quarter which seems pretty low versus your annual guidance.
Why are you lowering your guidance for the year for commodity cost hikes?  But I don’t think we are we said $150 million to $250 million is what we think we are going to see in inflation and then we have $35 million in the first quarter.
So if you annualize that we would be bumping up against the low end of the range.
And in the first quarter I think it was about $15 million was pulp about $10 million was polymer about $10 million was distribution cost.
And so I would say those are the probably pulp for the full year we expect will be two-thirds of the inflation with the balance being the other big chunk being distribution and that’s both diesel rate as well as carrier rate increases including some in Latin America where there has been some big carrier rate increases in Latin America.
Okay.
But maybe the bottom end of your range we should – it’s more likely than the top end right?  But it’s certainly with the commodity pullback that’s happened in the last week or so that wasn’t probably fully reflected in our guidance.
You can see in the assumptions we are assuming oil is going to be in the $90 to $100 a barrel range and natural gas we are assuming $4 to $4.50 and that’s pretty much tracking oil probably the one that’s maybe you got a little bit more upside than what we shared with you.
Pulp we still think if you look at Northern softwood 8.90 to 9 ton price range is about right.
Secondary fiber we are assuming is around $2.60 $2.65 and there maybe a little bit of upside on that but we will see how the year plays out.
Yeah I think the cost analysis is especially with oil I mean it’s on the bottom of the CNBC News screen every day and it’s just – it’s too easy we have learned to focus on current day pricing.
And I think our range of $150 million to $250 million for the year is still a good call and gives us some flexibility in the guidance if oil or natural gas or fiber run up on us in the whole year.
And currency rates are also obviously a key factor here a lot of times they move in opposite direction with input costs.
Okay.
And the follow-up to this is you never really give us the base off of which we can run these commodity cost increases let’s say your commodity costs were up $150 million through the year.
Is that an increase below let’s say 3% organic sales growth we might get 3% to 4% what was kind of an increase is the $150 million year-over-year?  It would be low single-digits.
So you are getting leverage from that from cost going up less than organic sales growth correct?  Yes yes.
So the $150 million would be up like 1% 2% year-over-year?  Yeah I mean its low single-digit spend Alice.
Yeah excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hello Javier.
Good morning to everyone.
How are you? Question for you I have two questions but I would like to just start both in KCI so I would like to start with China so you moved 50% right and certainly I don’t think that the market is growing 50%.
So if you can give us the sense of if you kind of split China basically in Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities where you were up to last year and then the new cities that you have three cities which you are penetrating right now.
If you can let us know your best guess what is the market growth in Tier 1 Tier 2 cities versus Tier 3 cities? And also what is the market structure what is your market share in Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities versus your market share in the new cities that you are competing entering and also if you can tell us Unicharm and Procter &amp; Gamble diapers share as well divided between Tier 1 and Tier 2 versus the rest which is your rollout as you started last year? That will be my first question.
Javier I think you might have dialed the wrong number you might be thinking I am Nielsen or something but I am probably not going to give you that level of detail.
I guess I will say this is that in the large cities and we almost look at a share on a customer by customer basis.
So in the large cities in the modern trade customers we would have much stronger share than we would on a national basis.
So it’s not uncommon to have shares for us north of 20% in the large modern trade and even though our national share in China is probably half of that.
And so as you go into new cities obviously your share is a lot smaller you are trying to build it with some of the new customers as you go into those markets and then in we are also doing quite well in e-commerce in China which is a growing channel which isn’t very accurately measured.
And so it’s s a very dynamic complex market.
I also tell you quite honestly in many cases because the Nielsen coverage is still a little spotty but anybody that is quoting you at market shares in China is probably pulling your leg.
So Procter is still the share leader Uni-Charm is probably got a share that’s higher than ours overall but we will be competitive in the Tier 1 cities with both of those companies kind of buying for share leadership certainly in our segments in the super premium segment.
We would be the share leader; in the mid-tier you typical would see P&amp;G and Uni-Charm with a little stronger shares than we have because we’re the new comer to that segment.
But good news is the category overall we think is growing at least mid-single digits maybe high single digits and so it's still a pretty existing diaper market for us.
But the mid-single digits if you grew volumes at 50s somebody must have been losing share.
So if you can help us understand who is losing share because growing at 15 the market is growing only mid-single digits somebody must be losing share.
Do you have any idea what player is sharing for you?  I would say probably if you look at the Nielsen data I have seen is probably been P&amp;G and Haugen have been the biggest share of losers.
On the other hand you could still lose share and grow volume just give the overall growth of the market.
But you said you lose mid-single digits and grew 50s so that’s why was seeing the share losses and the other question that I have is that you mentioned China growing at 50 Russia growing at 10 and the slowdown was in Brazil to 5 but it's still very strong growth in this big market so which markets went negative.
Could it be related on to what extent this is related to a Kimberly specific issue or is broader market issue that will be the case if one of the negative markets I think you flag it was Venezuela? So if you can explain which markets were negative and whether this is a Kimberly specific issue and that will be very helpful.
Thank you.
The two big negative markets one is Australia and had more to do with the timing of promotions.
So we had more promotional shipments in first quarter ’12 than typical that’s a big holiday period in Australia so usually those promotions take place late in the year for whatever reason they happened in the first quarter of ’12 they also have happened in the fourth quarter ’12.
So we’re a little late in Australia and that was probably the biggest comp change and then Venezuela was a little weak in Latin America overall just related probably more to our ability to get foreign exchange to pay for important product or as you know we’re disciplined in terms of how we manage that part of the world and so those are the two biggest volume drags in KCI and I guess you could say at least Australia was probably K-C specific and that it was more on timing of promotional shipments in Venezuela.
I don’t know who you want to give credit to that one for so.
But in terms of Venezuela how weak is weak? You talked because last quarter because you mentioned that their volumes were down 30% could it be that kind of magnitude in Venezuela for you?  It wasn’t that because of the size of the Australia business was in KCI that probably had a much bigger impact on the overall comps than anything else.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
First to follow-up to Lawrence’s question the post tissue exit how large was that gain this quarter?  It wasn’t a gain basically we took…  I was referring to the non-core asset sale in the quarter.
Non-core asset sale it was the majority income which on adjusted basis was 24 million so it's the majority of that.
I guess the other point there Jason is that that was in our plan for the year.
One more follow-up back to KCI in Brazil.
There has been some chatter out of the market of the government trying to tamper the inflation rate by partnering with your retailers giving them some tax relief in exchange for some price cuts.
Have you seen or heard about this if so what’s the status or any intentional implications for you.
That has not had a big impact on us at this point and I think most of those initiatives have been focused more on food inflation and less on our categories up to this point.
Our next question comes from (inaudible).
I just have one question; you were talking about new assets starting up in the second quarter and maybe for the rest of the year.
What kind of assets are they and what’s the cost of starting them up and when are they fully operational?  We will be adding as I mentioned Mark and I are dedicated a new diaper plan in China so that’s under startup we will be adding some Baby Wipes capacity in a couple of markets around the world so that will be co-format that’s the converting assets will be starting up.
We’re adding some adult care capacity in different markets around the world and so none of them will have the startup impacts like a new tissue a plant would have and all of the startup cost were baked into our plan for the year but it will a bit of an impact as the year progresses.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Just a little more specific you’re in 85 cities already in China.
Do you think you’re going to be raising your goal because it looks like you’re moving pretty quickly there and the second part of the China question is how quickly would you get a margin benefit from manufacturing the line of share of your product locally versus importing?  Certainly adding capacity in China will give us a margin boast we have already got a couple of diaper lines running in China at our existing facility in Nanjing and we manufacture quite a bit of feminine care products in China and we enjoy the margin benefits from that and so by adding the diaper capacity we will give us a boast probably starting later this year and certainly in 2014 once we get past the startup and in terms of raising our goal.
Our China team is certainly aggressive and as developing such growth plans they were very enthusiastic when Mark and I were with them earlier this year and our job is to make sure that we can make all their dreams come true.
So we think that will be a good thing for Kimberly Clarke long term.
And just in terms of the consumer in China since you just got back any sense of a major shift one way or the other or I mean obviously your business has been growing that there is a lot of concern about the consumer there.
You still think good GDP per capita growth even though the overall GDP growth rate has slowed a bit and Chinese moms are moms anywhere else they want the very best product for their babies.
They talk a lot about the little emperors in China where parents really sacrifice a lot to provide the very best for their children and that has impacted us a bit.
I mean those children are their future and they’re going to invest in them to make sure that they can be as well-educated and as healthy and as strong as they can possibly be and that’s certainly is a trend that abating at all in China.
And then if you can talk company overall your price mix outlook because you had pretty strong price mix growth in the first quarter of last year that’s more modest this year.
Is that what we saw in the first quarter kind of what you would expect for the balance of the year for price mix?  We set our goals is 1 to 2 we were one in the quarter.
We should get a little bit of additional mix as the innovation rolls out but we got relatively benign cost inflation and currency rate swings in the plan and so those are usually bigger drivers of the price line.
If you saw big spike in commodities or a big swing in currency raised in an individual market you would see more pricing offsets there.
Right and if you could just talk a little bit about Mexico because you have great growth in your equity income line and was it volume driven? Was it whatever you can share about that market?  We had a solid quarter and really every component of the equity income line this quarter had a very solid results.
So we don’t talk them about often but our business in India had a nice profit improvement our business in Saudi Arabia had a nice profit improvement as well and so those are in that line but they are obviously much smaller than the K-C Mexico numbers and Mexico had a good executions decent top-line and great cost savings and that translated into a nice improvement and as talking to Pablo Gonzalez earlier in the week and they are pretty bullish on their outlook.
In fact I think their call has gone going as we speak so Pablo is probably out talking to his shareholder group about the good news the K-C Mexico.
Final question just on the U.S.
environment again sort of a similar question about the consumer because there is a lot fear that private label or lower price brands are kind of set a stay in the new reality even if the economy gets better.
Do you have any thoughts of that?  Well it's interesting we track private label shares as you would expect and then basically in every single category that we track this quarter shares were down versus the prior quarter is slightly down and in many of them were down versus the year ago quarter and so I would say the ones that’s up year-over-year is dry bath tissue and so that’s probably the one that you have seen the most competitive pressure we talked a little bit about that I think our non-public competitors that had some supply problems in the first quarter created a little bit of a window for some private label improvement as well but overall we’re not seeing anything at least in the recent quarter that would indicate that the consumers are feeling more squeezed and bound shifting into private label.
Our next question comes from Leigh Ferst with Wellington Shields.
I was wondering if you can tell us some more about the surgical numbers that were down 4% in the quarter.
How are they trending towards the end of last year and also is there any remarkable difference between elective and non-elective?  Well it's one that you saw a debt in the third and fourth quarter of last year and I would tell you we don’t have the data yet to be able to tell you and I think that’s going to be elective right? Because if you need surgery you’re probably not able to post-pone it as much as you would think but.
I think everyone is trying to unpack this data and get a better look at and when we look at our surgical supplies business and in the fourth quarter we’re down a percent it was flattish in the third quarter.
We’re also existing some lower margin (inaudible) business which affected those numbers a little bit but we would expected a little bit better underlying environment for surgeries in the first quarter than we saw and we’re still trying to figure it out along with a lot of other companies I would guess.
And did you say you’re expecting U.S.
birth rate to be down this year?  Well they have been down every year for the last three years and we’re expecting birth rate to flatten out this year.
Category it will be down.
Category will be down for some because the babies that weren’t born last year won't be wearing diapers this year.
Okay so flat is what you’re forecasting recently so that’s no change.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from (inaudible).
First question is I noticed the minority interest is creeping up over at about 80 million a year and yet it looks like your dividend to them are only like a third of that or fourth of that is that correct or how does that generally work for you?  I don’t know I have to think about that one Chip and get back to you.
I mean the minority interest is it includes some other stuff related to our one of our finance industries that’s probably part of what’s going and that we have got this off shore financing thing that’s on the balance sheet that’s probably doing more to drive that somewhat unrelated to the dividend flow beyond that I would tell you there is other big minority interests in Korea and that business continues to do very well and also continues to pay out the dividend.
And then second question on that financing I noticed there is a note 395 million I think that actually winds up next year and the question is is that note which is in sort of the long term assets.
Is that offset by in your debt section somewhere or is it sort of hanging there in other words.
If you’re trying to compete your net debt should we include that note in your cash because you have an offsetting liability on the debt side.
Yes there is an offset.
And then last question it looked like to us that the corporate expense when you look at just in the pure sense was a little elevated versus a year ago.
We get 62 million I think and should we expect that to be higher than it was a year ago or was the first quarter just an anomaly?  Chip that would include some higher incentive compensation expenses which are related to our increased outlook for the year.
So for the full year we probably be up year-over-year in that line but I wouldn’t assume that the first quarter would be a normal run rate.
Lastly Mark you mentioned the gain on the real estate that caused the other income line to be normalized to 24 million what should we expect that on a normal basis to be.
I always thought it was always more or less the small like 10 million expense is that fair or should it be zero or what would you got us do?  It's normally it's very slight positive or very slight negative.
Plus or minus 10 million and every once in a while you have something like we had this quarter where it's a little lumpier.
Our next question comes from Linda Bolton Weiser with B Riley &amp; Company.
I think in the past where we had the bird flu outbreak you actually saw the safe mask lift are you seeing any of that yet due to what’s going in China or not?  Not yet and the another thing we have tried to be better at managing pandemics because what has happened to us in the past is that everybody orders everything and panics and they needed 10 cases they order a 100 cases and then if we ship it to them then they want to ship it all back to us two months later.
So we actually have once we have evidence of there is a – the demand serves like that coming we go into instant allocation mode and limit the ability of them to buy outsize amounts and so we’re trying to do a better job of managing that for everybody supply chain in these kinds of situations but we haven't seen much happen yet at this point.
At this time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right.
Thank you David we will wrap up with a closing comment from Tom.
Once again we’re off to a good start at Kimberly Clark and we appreciate your support and once again our thoughts and prayers go out to the folks in Boston that are affected by the events that have unfolded this week.
Thank you very much for being with us today.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you'd like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
With us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of second quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year.
We will finish with Q&amp;A.
We have a presentation of today's materials in the Investor section of our website which is www.kimberly-clark.com.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the risk factors section of our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both excludes certain items described in this morning's news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let me start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 3% led by 9% growth in K-C International.
Second we increased adjusted earnings per share 8% driven by organic sales growth and strong cost savings.
Third we are on-track with our overall capital plan including working capital capital spending and returning cash flow to shareholders.
Now some details for the quarter.
Second quarter sales were $5.3 billion and was even with last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 3% with increased fines of 2% and higher net selling prices of one point.
While sales in connection with our restructuring activities reduced sales by 2% and unfavorable currency rates reduced sales by a point.
Second quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.5%.
That’s up 90 basis points from last year.
The increase was driven by organic sales growth and $80 million of FORCE cost savings partially offset by $30 million of input cost inflation.
I am really pleased with our continued momentum with FORCE.
We delivered at least $80 million of savings in each of the last four quarters and we are now raising our full-year target to $300 million to $350 million of savings for the year.
That ranges $50 million higher than our previous expectation and will help offset additional currency headwinds that Tom will talk about in a minute.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Adjusted operating profit rose 6% with an operating margin of 15.5%.
That’s up 70 basis points compared to last year.
Strategic marketing spending was down $20 million and that comparison was impacted by a high level of innovation related spending in the second quarter last year and also some lower spending in Europe this year given the strategic changes We are making there.
Foreign currency translation effects reduced operating profit by $15 million and transaction effects further negatively impacted that comparison.
The second quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 31.8%.
That’s up from last year but in line with our full year target of 30% to 32%.
Equity income was up 28% as K-C de Mexico had another quarter of excellent performance.
So putting it all together second quarter adjusted earnings per share was $1.41.
That is up 8% year-on-year.
Now turning to cash flow.
Cash provided by operations in the second quarter was $576 million compared to $740 million last year.
The decrease was driven by higher tax payments pension contributions and severance costs in Europe.
So halfway through the year we are on track with our plan and expect our cash generation to improve sequentially in the back half of the year.
In terms of capital allocation second quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled more than $600 million.
We repurchased 300 million shares worth of KMB stock in the quarter.
We now expect full-year sharing purchases of $1.2 billion.
That's at the high end of our target range of $1 billion to $1.2 billion for share buybacks for the year.
Now to highlight just a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 3% driven by volume growth.
K-C International had another good quarter with organic sales up 8% continue to make excellent progress with our targeted growth initiatives across K-C international.
Tom will provide some more details in a minute.
Elsewhere in Personal Care organic sales were down low single digits in North America but high single digits in Europe.
Second quarter Personal Care operating margins of 18.1% rose 130 basis points.
Improvement was driven by organic sales growth and cost savings partially offset by cost inflation and unfavorable effects of currency.
Now before we leave Personal Care let me give a brief update on the strategic changes we have underway in Europe.
We've now stopped selling Huggies diapers in all markets except Italy and we closed our Spanish production facility in May.
In terms of organization changes we are about halfway through the total expected workforce reductions.
So in total our European team continues to make good progress with the changes and they are on track to deliver their full year operating plan.
Moving to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up about 5% with volume growth of 3% and higher net selling prices of 1%.
Volumes improved in North America in K-C International but were down slightly in Europe.
Consumer Tissue operating margins were solid although they were down 30 basis points versus last year.
Turning to K-C Professional organic sales were up 2% driven by higher net selling prices.
Despite flat sales volumes for K-C professional team continues to drive profitability.
Second quarter operating margins of 19.1% were up 270 basis points year-on-year with strong cost savings and the benefits of pricing action.
Lastly Health Care organic sales were down 1% driven by lower surgical and infection prevention volumes Health Care operating margins of 13.5% we're essentially even with year ago period and we've got more work to do Health Care profitability did pick up nicely from the first quarter.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we generated solid organic sales growth.
We delivered strong margins and improved adjusted earnings per share and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will briefly comment on our second quarter results and then I'll address our full year outlook.
So starting with the second quarter I am encouraged by our strong cost savings by our margin improvement and by our bottom line growth.
As you can tell from Mark's discussion we continue to perform well in these areas.
Our organic sales growth is the one part of our results that was not totally satisfied with.
As you heard from Mark our performance was strong in K-C International with 9% growth overall an excellent progress against our targeted growth initiatives.
For example in our diaper business in K-C International our volumes were up 45% in China and 10% and both Russia and Brazil an improved net realized revenue brought total organic sales growth to about 20% in Brazil.
Elsewhere in K-C International we delivered double-digit organic sales growth in feminine care adult care and baby wipes and organic sales were up 8% in K-C Professional within the K-C International space.
So our K-C International team delivered an excellent quarter of broad-based top line growth.
They also improved their operating profit margin despite headwinds from currency and the conditions in Venezuela.
On the other hand volume was below my expectations for some of our other businesses in developed markets including K-C Professional Health Care and Huggies diapers in North America.
Some of that shortfall was related to fairly sluggish category demand.
I want you to know that our team is focused on driving better topline growth by fully taking advantage of our innovation and marketing programs and our sales capabilities.
Our year-on-year comparisons also get somewhat easier in the back half of this year.
So overall even with the more mixed topline performance in the quarter there were a number of positives in our second quarter results and halfway through the year I am encouraged with our overall progress.
Now let me move to the outlook.
As we have all observed the macro environment has become more volatile in the last few months with rapid changes in currency rates interest rates financial markets economic growth rates and most recently the price of oil.
Despite this volatility we will continue to execute our global business plan and that means pursuing targeted growth initiatives launching innovation reducing cost and returning capital to shareholders.
We have made excellent progress with these strategies overtime and I expect that to continue going forward.
On the innovation front we will continue to roll out new and improved products in K-C International particularly diapers premium feminine care and adult care.
In North America we launched a number of innovations in the second quarter that will be fully supporting in the back half of this year.
We will also be introducing innovations on our U by Kotex and Poise brands in the third quarter.
In terms of our financial target for 2013 on the top line we continue to expect full-year organic sales growth of 3% to 5%.
Performance should be led by K-C International which continues to target high single-digit growth.
We now expect that currency will be a one to two point drag on the topline with recent spot rates implying a drag of about two points.
Our previous assumption for an impact of 0% to minus 1% on the topline.
The one to two point topline drag from currency should cause us similar negative translation impact on the bottomline along with additional negative transaction effects.
Despite the more negative current environment we are also reconfirming our full year adjusted earnings target of $5.60 to $5.75 per share.
We expect to overcome additional currency headwinds primarily from higher FORCE cost savings as Mark mentioned.
In terms of selling prices in this environment in K-C International we will be opportunistic and improving our net realized revenue wherever were able to do.
While we aren’t planning any significant new price increases in the near-term if spot currency rates are maintained I will expect that some increases will occur in some market.
As usual our earnings guidance is based on foreign exchange rates effected over the balance of the year.
As currencies hold their recent spot rates for the balance of the year it's less likely that our adjusted earnings per share will reach the upper half of our guidance range.
In the past few years as currency rates have moved in one direction we have also seen commodity cost that’s generally moved in the other direction and right now we are not seeing that traditional pattern occur.
So even though we expect currency rates to be more negative than our previous plan our full year outlook for cost inflation continues to be $150 million to $250 million.
In fact if oil prices hold at over $100 per barrel that could push cost inflation into the upper half of our estimated range.
As I am sure you will we will also continue to closely watch the relationship between currency rates and commodity costs going forward.
So to summarize we have had a strong first half of the year.
We are reconfirming our full-year top and bottom line growth objectives.
While the environment has become more volatile recently we remain optimistic about our prospects to drive profitable growth and to deliver strong returns to shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we will begin to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the floor is now open for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
A couple of questions.
One is around KCI.
So it clearly looks like it has accelerated sequentially but still kind of lower than historical levels.
I wanted to get a sense from you guys whether that’s served by macro or an anomalous high growth rate before the distribution gains you had or competition.
What is driving that slow down? Then as part of that can you give us a sense of consumer tissue clearly being driver recently of KCI growth is that over a little bit in personal care is that intentional or is that (inaudible) what are the implications there around capacity and margin the way you run your business et cetera so all of that K-C.
Yes.
Good question Ali.
A couple of quick headlines and I would say overall we entered some of the key growth markets.
We talked about how things are going in China which continues to go very well and is not really slowing down.
Strong growth in Brazil despite some of the economic challenges in Brazil our team there is executing very well and we are seeing good growth there a lot of innovation coming in the back half on the Personal Care.
Some of that launched in the second quarter in places Russia.
You started to see that pickup.
I'd say where we are seeing a little bit of maybe slowdown in the quarter was probably the more developed end of the developing markets.
So places like Australia and Korea were a little slower in the quarter.
Those were also big businesses for us.
They have a disproportionate impact.
If you look at the segment split I mean you still saw a strong Personal Care growth but one of the swings in the quarter maybe wasn't as obvious was that Venezuela did very well on Tissue and slowed down on Personal Care.
It was really more of a question on what kinds of things did the Venezuelan government want to support in terms of the providing foreign exchange so they really wanted to emphasize brining bathroom tissue and improving their in-stock position on that so we had a very strong bath tissue quarter in Venezuela and not as much on the diaper front.
Just to put that in perspective just that Venezuela swing was about a third of the volume growth in the KCI tissue number in the quarter.
Okay.
So Venezuela really being the driving factor of that [CK] versus PC.
That's margin.
I'd say that was the biggest swing factor that had.
There wasn't really a fundamental shift in strategy.
Okay.
And then another a question which would touch on KCI little bit but really around the price mix which always for us is a little bit less than we had hoped broadly.
And a couple of things we noticed one about KCI pricing or price mix wasn't great.
I want to get a sense of where you are versus inflation on that and kind of either competitive atmosphere.
That's not allowing you to take prices as much as you'd like to.
Then secondly the North America mix number was negative in both segments so give us a sense of why that is.
And I guess the overarching piece of this is (Inaudible) aren't going up.
Do you guys have pricing power that really is always tied to commodity prices? Yes.
I would say broadly we will try to get more pricing benefit is through mix coupled with innovation.
I mean I would say most of our businesses around the world are not assuming that you are going to get routine list price increases.
You'll get it when it's driven by commodities and that's probably you didn't see as much in KCI in the quarter.
I mean KCI had if you look at price and promotion together we had two points of improvement in Q2 versus three points in Q1 and so it wasn't remarkably different than what we were expecting going in.
We are probably more focused on using our trade funds more effectively in KCI.
Now it will be a place that we will count that as some price improvement as we roll forward.
Beyond that we'll get some [price] big currency swings in KCI and we saw some of that in Brazil the first half and in that will play out.
If you see big currency swings eventually you will see some price that moves there as well.
On the North American front we typically have some negative mix built in as more of the categories moved to the larger format tax but beyond that there wasn't anything else that was going on there that was a big driver.
Okay.
So no extra competition really got any of this from a pricing mix perspective? No.
I wouldn't say so.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks Ali.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Just a personal account on the volumes? Can you talk a little bit about what's going on in fem care and is that a trend that you would expect to continue? No.
The fem care volume in the U.S.
was tougher comp.
Last year we had double-digit growth we had some pipeline filled with some new innovation that was launched and so that was more the comparison.
Our shares were pretty stable sequentially so we didn't see much change and so we are still seeing good growth on U by Kotex and a little bit of weakness on our traditional Kotex but we've got some good innovation coming across both of those platforms in the coming quarter so we do feel good about our fem care plan overall.
Okay and in terms of Europe can you just remind me there was reference to solid performance and contributions from non branded business.
Is that something that rolls off as we enter the second half or at what point would you expect to see that business go away if at all? We picked up some private label contracts a year ago and so we are still seeing a favorable comp of those and those will roll off in the second half of the year.
We will keep some of it in Italy but probably we will shed some of that business as we have exited facilities.
Okay and in terms of North America would the pricing benefit you saw in that this year in the quarter how much of that would have benefitted the quarter versus what you had expected to see in the second half? Well we took some desheeting in the quarter that will roll into the second half and what you will see is probably more positive price in the second half in tissue in North America and less volume because we count volume in thousands of sheets.
So you will see a volume drag and a positive price which net net for us works out to be a positive.
Okay and just one last question.
Speaking on North American tissue.
Last quarter you talked about seeing some benefit as a competitor was struggling to put stock on the shelves.
Has that started to reverse yet? Or is that something that you are able to maintain? I think we have heard and again this is more anecdotal that they have returned to normal service and promotional levels by the end of the second quarter.
Albeit they are at a lower market share than earlier.
So we are pleased that we picked up share in this environment private label did as well and we will be watching the competitive environment in the second half.
In the mean time we have got some great innovation coming with some improved Cottonelle there.
So we have got a big launch of our Cottonelle Moist.
Some improvements on Kleenex.
So actually a lot of news in the tissue category coming in the second half that we feel pretty good about.
Okay and just one last question on inflation.
You mentioned oil.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about Pulp.
It seems like they are starting to be mounting pressure.
Is that something that you would expect in your second half or not? Well our northern softwood guidance for the year really didn’t change in the quarter.
We still call it $8.90 to $9.10 on average for the year ago.
It will be above that in the third quarter but we buy a lot more Eucalyptus than northern softwood and we are actually seeing Eucalyptus trend down just a bit sequentially.
So we do think that with the weaker Brazilian currency given that all the Eucalyptus producers sell in dollars there is less need for them to get the price increase in this kind of environment.
I think the other offsetting factor that we don’t talk as much about is recycled fiber.
We by about 1.2 million tons of recycled fiber a year and that’s actually been softer market.
So overall fibers is tracking pretty close to our expectations.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about the organic sales growth pickup you expect in the second half? Given that KCI sales growth has trended about 9% for the last six quarters this really suggests the pickup in developed markets.
So where is it coming from? What are the new products you are especially focused on? And I hate to ask but what is Cottonelle Moist? Well if you look at the Cottonelle we have got a new talk about design that would be a moist bathroom tissue product.
It’s a great product great category growing rapidly.
We will have to get you some Connie to try it but that’s probably one are that we think would be a good growth opportunity.
We have got our new Sung and Dry diaper in market.
We are going to put even more muscle to be competitive behind that in the second half and we would expect to see a better baby and child care result overall in the second half than we had certainly in the second quarter.
We have got some new Poise light bladder leakage products out as well.
We have got a new Depend campaign that we are launching that for those of you that are watching the British Open this weekend have got to watch Tony Siragusa pitching for protect your manhood with some new Depend Guards.
So we will have those products that are going to start going.
So shifting to some of the B2B businesses.
We also would expect to see an uptick in KCP in the second half.
We really weren’t satisfied with our growth in North America in KCP in the second quarter.
Some of that categories was with manufacturing being a little weak and some of the laboratory services there that even make business a little weak but we still expect to see a better performance there in during the second half.
Okay.
And also could you comment on the uptick in forth saving whether the projects that are kicking in to contribute $50 million extra.
Then also just very generally how do you manage to take out hundreds of millions of dollars of cost every year without hitting some sort of institutional to peak? Well I mean really Connie our teams are energized about the cost savings initiatives and each of our teams around the world is looking at that as a way to fund our future growth so by identifying and delivering cost savings in areas that are our consumers and customers don't care about we're able to invest more in R&amp;D investment in strategic brand building and help grow our business overall so we really view that as part of the healthy growth model for our business going forward.
And so the big areas that we continue to work on we started up a global procurement organization several years ago.
We are continuing to build capability in that function around the world and sharing information better doing more cost structure modeling of our suppliers to understand where we are adding cost and if we change our specification we can deliver a better value overall so that's a big bucket for us.
We are doing a lot on productivity and best practice sharing so we measure productivity in the same way around the world and are sharing best practices.
The great news is that are our best performing facilities are getting even better so we still see a healthy gap for us to attack between our best performing facilities and our worse performing facilities.
Then the third area is product specification changes looking at the design of our products how do we designed for value where we are taking things out that the consumer isn't concerned about so all three of those areas contributed again in the second quarter and we've got a pretty robust pipeline of ideas for the future that we are going to go chase that give us confidence in our ability to deliver at that level.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I had a question about the strategic spending.
So first off down $20 million in the quarter that was kind of how you had planned things out and if you are expecting that to ramp up in the second half as the innovation activity picks up.
Yes.
Absolutely.
We were a little heavy last June.
The second quarter was the fem wellness in the U.S.
and then obviously exiting some categories in markets.
We didn't spend as much in Europe as we would have last year so those are the two big drivers of the change in the quarter but we've also had quite a bit of innovation coming in the second half and I would expect us to spend more on strategic A&amp;P sequentially than we did in the first half.
We will get a little bit of a currency benefit in some markets.
If you look at it from our standpoint but we still think for the full year we'll spend at least as much as a percent of sales and maybe even a bit higher on strategic A&amp;P this year.
Okay.
Great.
The Poise wellness launch and it's now been a year so where does that stand in terms of distribution? What Try On repeat has been like and so on? Because you guys have certainly have a track record of trying to cover new ground in some of your categories since it takes a bit longer to take hold.
Yes.
I think we've seen all over the world kind of mixed results.
In some markets it's going great and in some markets it's one of the leading [skews] in category.
In North America it's a little slower than we would have expected and so we are regrouping and trying to make sure we know what the next steps are us there but we do think there is a big insight here and a great consumer need and we will keep working at it.
In the meantime we've got some great growth stories around the world to continue to drive.
Okay.
Great.
And my final thing was just Viva and shelf space I think last quarter you guys had said you were just about back up to historic levels.
Is that still true or was there more to go? Well I think Viva is about on track with our expectations so far this year in the U.S.
And again we would continue to see that opportunity there for innovation and growth going forward but right now we are managing that at about the level that we can support.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
You guys talked about the adult market in the U.S.
growing sort of currently high-single digits there.
I guess as we look out over the next couple of years what do you think is a more sustainable growth rate for that? Can you talk about category penetration versus the overall size of the category and how you are really thinking about that longer term from a growth standpoint? Thanks.
This is a great question.
Even today that’s a relatively underpenetrated category in the U.S.
So we think relative to the possible needs stay we may be something line 40% penetrated in the U.S.
Now they may be using other products for institutional format but there is other ways that we really think we can drive growth in this category.
Then broadly as you look outside the U.S.
the birth rate in many parts of the world is even lower than is in the U.S.
and the populations are aging and people are living longer.
So that’s why we are so excited about the global growth prospects for our Depend business and our Poise business.
So we think there is a lots and lots of growth ahead for those brands as we move forward.
The next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I wondered if you could whether your China plant opened? Yes.
I was there and cut the ribbon.
I think it was in April.
So China plant in Nanjing is doing well.
It had a great start up with a lot of support from our Korean team.
It was over to help with training and start up support.
It had one of the best start ups in the history of Kimberly-Clark.
So they are off to up and running and they have built a great capability and it is going to support the growth in China.
They kept reminding we are need even more capacity at the rate our business is growing.
So I think that will be a trip we will be making pretty regularly here in the future.
That’s great.
I am trying to understand whether this is transformationals for margins and growth opportunity? Or whether this is just a step in the right direction? Well I think getting to local manufacturing will certainly help the margin picture in China.
On the other hand when you are growing at 45% there is still going to be importing some product to keep up with that growth rate.
So it’s a balance but China is hitting its expectations for our plan this year where we are 85 cities now with Huggies versus 80 last quarter and still expect to get to 90 by the end of the year.
The team over there is executing at a very high level.
I know that you have gone to a more mainstream product from super premium but I am just trying to understand if the opening of local production offsets any potential any margin hit from selling more mainstream just as premium? Also if you are taking a lot of market share just given your growth rates it was really high.
Yes I think we picked up a couple of share points in China over the last year.
It’s a big market and so we are coming off a smaller base.
So as we are moving in to participate in a broader segment of the category that’s part of it.
I will also tell you we are launching a super super premium product to come at the very top end of the market.
So we will actually be creating a new tier for those consumers that want the very best for their babies.
So we have got a lot of action in China and are really trying to make sure we are available in all the formats that a mom might want.
That's very helpful thank you.
Just on Brazil there were some categories in consumer but more beverage related that seemed to have taken a big hit.
Did you have any reaction from consumers that you had noticed in Brazil? So aside from currency issues were there any delivery problems? Was there any change in the takeaway trends in your business? None.
Really nothing to speak of.
We are still expanding and growing in Brazil as well.
So actually our board was in Brazil for a week in June.
We cut the ribbon on a new plant in the North Eastern part of Brazil.
So we are expanding our capability in that market as well and seeing the growth results from that.
And able to take some price to offset currency then? Yes.
We took some price in the first quarter really following some of the currency change that ran up in 2012.
We are able put that into the market.
The encouraging thing was you saw the double-digit volume growth in diapers even with the double-digit price increase.
So it was a good result good execution by the team there.
Last one.
Thank you so much and this is North America.
It looks like you did loose some share and you may tucked on this in diapers to Proctor.
Is there enough innovation coming in the back half you think that could shift? Do you see any hope for the market as soft to be a little better in the back half? In diapers and our share calculation we were flat sequentially and down about a half a point year-over-year and Lowe's was a big share gainer.
Actually Lowe's took share from Pampers and from Huggies in the quarter.
There was some hot promotional price points in certain channels that drove that and so we are going to make sure we are competitive and responsive to what's happening in the marketplace and we have got some terrific innovation that's launching that we are going to make more noise about in the back half so we would hope to recover some of those share impacts in the back half of the year.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Just wanted to touch a bit little more on organic sales growth so you are at 3 to 5 to our target what gets you to the 5 end of the range as opposed to the 3 end of a range? Well I think this year quite frankly it'll be a bit of a challenge given that half of the year is already in the books at the three end of the range.
But you if looked at it broadly and said our categories are growing 3% to 4% so to get to five you've got to take some share you got to have some innovation beyond your core category growth.
So we think that's doable but we also would say 3 to 5 is probably the range to plan for and we want to deliver that consistently over a long period of time.
Got it.
Thanks.
Then you typically run through how many categories where you gain shares flat versus down.
Can you run through that quickly? Yes.
Maybe I will turn that over to Paul but in the U.S.
I think we were flat for up year-over-year and 5 off 8 or something like that.
Paul is that about right? Yes.
That's right and we were down in three categories in those three where diapers as Tom has mentioned down about half a point also down about half a point in facial tissue and about a point in child care.
Very high share base we've gotten nearly mid-60s kind of share there.
Got it.
Then just following up on child care what drove the volume decline? Is that related to weather since you called out the Little Swimmers or is it something more systemic there? I really hate blaming anything on the weather because it sounds kind of lame but we did have a cooler weather spring this year and we had a hotter drier spring last year.
I think that's part of it so Little Swimmers was the little softer this period of time.
We don't think we are still digging into that to understand what's going on there and will we see that business come back over the summer month so that's part of it.
I think the diaper category overall the birth rate was lower than we expected or longer than we expected.
That's kind of piling up a little in the child care category so that's a little weaker.
So those were some of the factors that drove that and so that's one that we are kind of big into a little bit in the second half as well.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Hi.
Good morning.
Did I catch you saying earlier in the call that your categories in North America were sluggish in the second quarter? Did you mean they were slower than in the first quarter? And if so why would that be? Yes.
I think in K-C Professional in particular you see things manufacturing both particularly seeing a little bit slower.
We have a small scientific business that sells a lot into laboratories to do research and that one segment seems to have been a little bit more affected by the sequester where any government funded research is more discretionary has been closed down so that was a little weaker.
Things are related to welding in general where we sell a fair amount of supplies into that space were a bit slower.
Other segments like lodging we are okay.
So you saw that was pretty stable.
Health Care which affects both our Health Care business and our KCP business was less negative in the second quarter but was still negative in terms of overall surgeries.
I think year-to-date the best data we have seen that surgeries are down about 3% is more like more of that in the first quarter than in the second but still a drag year-on-year.
Okay so there wasn't any particular weakening in the categories for tissue or personal care? I think tissue and personal care or probably the child care segment was weaker than we had expected and it's a bit of a seasonal business because of the impact of Little Swimmers.
So it's not always fair to compare that sequentially because you will probably see we sold more Little Swimmers in the second quarter than the first quarter but that's not necessarily a value comparison.
So that would probably be weather so that wouldn’t persist into the second half? Yes.
The next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
I have a question with regards to tissue margins.
The negative leverage that you have in the quarter considering that you have better savings you have the volume benefits from Georgia Pacific you have positive pricing and the commodity impact seems to be coming on the lower end of your forecast.
So why is it that margins fade in the last quarter and we have this margin contraction in this quarter? Yes a good question Javier.
Two key drivers of that.
One is facial issue is our weakest in the second quarter and that's a higher margin item than the overall basket in consumer tissues.
So obviously we do pretty well in the fourth quarter and first quarter with cold and flu.
Second quarter you have got spring allergy but it's an easy or light facial tissue quarter.
So that affects your margin mix in that segment.
The second driver was in Europe we had quite a bit of startup activity around some new Andrex product improvements that we are preparing.
That was a drag on margin in the second quarter versus the first.
That asset went down in the second quarter.
I was in Europe in late June and went to the plant to see the new process and we are excited about the new product we are going to be making in the balance of the year but it did cost us some margin in the second quarter.
Thank you and changing businesses on healthcare it has been negative for the past four quarters.
Would you explain us what part of the business I know that it's kind of like a conglomerate of different businesses but what is happening there? Why we have four quarters in a row of negative sales growth? Thank you.
Yes.
A couple of things.
The underlying category trends we have talked a little about that the number of surgeries has been less than we have thought.
I think everybody in the healthcare space is trying to figure that out.
I think the best guess we have heard is that it's more and more consumers are in high deductible consumer directed healthcare plans and that that's part of it.
I think the other part is that you are seeing more of a push to alternate therapies before surgery.
So rather than getting your knee sculped go do PT for a couple of months and see how that goes before he puts in the hospital and cuts your knee open.
So that's part of the of it.
I think the other part that as a synthetic nitro prices ran up last year we were pretty aggressive on pricing on disposable exam gloves and as a result we have shut some volume in that process but it was lower margin volume and while it hurts your topline comparison it's the right thing to do to get that business moving in the right direction.
Understood and finally on China.
If you can tell us what is the organic sales growth not jus the volume just to understand what is the impact on price mix from the roll out of the mid-tier diaper if you could please? Yes.
I mean there is not much price mix in that number.
It's a pretty clean number.
I will ask Paul if he wants to give you a more precise estimate.
Yes Javier On a rounded basis the 45% volume growth for diapers would have been 40% plus on total organics.
So as Tom said not much difference there.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning folks.
Thanks for the question.
We closed on China.
So I guess I will kind of pick that back up.
You have been having a trend of success in the diaper market in China.
We are hearing of new competitors or the existing competitors plan to get more aggressive Kao LG Pigeon and even Biostime who has had good success in formula trying to come out in diapers as well.
Should we be concerned about this or is this just more in your ways in par for the course? Everybody wants a piece of China so when you go over there you will find every company you've ever heard of is trying to build the business there and so I think we are competing pretty well but it's a big market and there is room for lots of competitors but we also expect at some time it will rationalize.
There's still hundreds of diaper brands that are local in the Chinese market.
There's probably thousands of fem care brands as you add them up all across China.
In the mean time we are aiming at mom.
We are doing well in the digital space in China which is increasingly important channel so we actually have a higher share in e-com in China than we would in the measured outlets and so we really feel like we have got underpinnings with great products great brands and the team is executing pretty well on the field right now.
Thanks.
Back to U.S.
real quick.
Tissues the facial tissue business we saw the effect of (Inaudible) in the Nielsen data this past period.
We also saw your market share take a pretty substantial step back.
Is that just temporary on your transition here to the new [count] or is there the reason to be worried about price gaps going forward? We usually see a dip in second quarter from first quarter because there is a lot of promotion around cold and flu and we don't promote it heavily in the spring because the consumer need isn't as great and so we typically see a dip in second quarter from first quarter so little deeper than last year so you are down year-on-year but we would expect that to come back from a dollar share standpoint in the back half Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
I will pass it on.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hey.
Guys good morning.
When we are assessing the margin benefits from the European divestitures because obviously you are exiting zero margin businesses.
Then I just kind of look at the SG&amp;A cost and yes they were down year-over-year in dollars.
Is that a trend that might continue throughout the year as the European thing starts to get some more attraction? Yes.
You are starting to see some of the margin improvement year-on-year in personal care from the European exit so that's part of the year-on-year increase from that standpoint.
We are well through the overhead savings.
We should see a bit more of that flow in in the back half but I don't know if it will be big enough that we will call out in the G&amp;A numbers but we'll expect to see the overall margin improvement from Europe will be a part of the story this year for sure.
Okay.
Great.
Then maybe I'm looking at the wrong data but even with this number that I have so it's up quite a bit year-over-year.
Am I just looking at the wrong stuff or you guys kind of looking at the forward curve? No.
I mean I think the stuff we see I don't Paul if you've got the specific data on year end? We're spending about $800 average for the year and I think the July price was [8.15] or something like that so we are in the ballpark on that like that.
It's up a bit.
I think last year's average was 795? Yes.
That's about right.
I think Bill in the first half of the years it is up year-over-year and Tom's comments earlier were referring that from here forward we are starting to see prices come back down in July and August.
Okay.
Got you.
Thanks so much guys.
I appreciate it.
This time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right.
Thank you David.
We will wrap up with our comments from Tom.
Very good.
Well once again we are pleased with the execution in the first half not satisfied with the top line and expect us to see us continue to execute our global business plan and deliver value for shareholders.
Thank you very much for your interest and support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you’d like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of third quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the year.
We’ll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investor section of our website which is www.kimberly-clark.com.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the risk factor section of our last Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both excludes certain items described in this morning’s news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
Now I’ll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning.
Let’s start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 5% in the third quarter highlighted by 10% growth in K-C International.
Second we increased adjusted earnings per share of 7% including benefits from organic sales growth and strong cost savings.
And third we’re on track with our overall capital plan including working capital capital spending and allocating cash to shareholders.
Now let’s cover some of the details of the quarter starting with the top line.
Third quarter sales were $5.3 billion even with last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 5%.
That included higher volumes of 3% and 1 point of growth from both higher net selling prices and improved product mix while sales in conjunction with our restructuring activities and unfavorable currency rates each reduced net sales by more than 2%.
I’m encouraged by the pickup in organic sales growth in the quarter which Tom will talk more about in a few minutes.
Third quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.4% up 20 basis points from last year adjusted operating profit rose 1 point with an operating margin of 15.6% that’s up 10 basis points compared to prior year.
Results benefited from our organic sales growth and $70 million of FORCE cost savings on the other hand we absorbed $55 million of cost inflation and $25 million of negative currency translation effects currency transaction effects also with the comparisons.
Total spending between the lines was down 10 basis points as a percent of sales as slightly lower marketing costs were mostly offset by higher administrative and research spending.
Third quarter adjusted effective tax rate was 30.2% that’s down from last year but in line with the low end of our full-year target of 30% to 32%.
Equity income was up 14% as K-C de Mexico had another solid quarter.
Finally our lower diluted share count added $0.04 of EPS compared to last year.
So putting all together third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.44 that’s up 7% year-on-year.
Now turning to cash flow our cash provided by operations in the third quarter was $912 million up 8% compared to $844 million last year.
The increase included benefits from working capital and lower pension contributions partially offset by payments related to the changes we’re making in Europe.
We continue to manage primary working capital well.
Our year-to-date cash conversion cycle is down four days compared to full-year 2012.
So we’re on track to exceed our original one-day improvement target.
In terms of capital allocation third quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled more than $450 million.
We repurchased $150 million of KMB stock in the quarter and we continue to expect full-year share repurchases of $1.2 billion.
Now I’ll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose more than 5% driven by volume growth of 5%.
Performance was led by K-C International where organic sales were up 10%.
Third quarter Personal Care operating margins were solid at 17.9% although down just slightly year-on-year.
Moving to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up 5% net selling prices increased 3% with higher volumes and favorable mix each adding 1 point to growth.
The organic growth was driven by a 10% increase in K-C International and a 4% improvement in North America.
Consumer Tissue operating margins of 14.3% were up 80 basis points versus last year.
Our margins continued to benefit from revenue realization strategies cost savings and disciplined management of our between the lines spending.
Turning to K-C Professional organic sales were up 5% net selling prices and volumes each increased 2% product mix was favorable by 1 point.
Performance was led by K-C International with 11% organic growth.
Organic sales were up low-single digits in both North America and Europe.
Our KCP team continues to deliver strong margins.
This quarter margins were 18.4% up 90 basis points year-on-year.
Lastly healthcare organic sales were up 4% driven by higher volumes in our medical device business.
Healthcare operating margins of 17.4% improved nicely both sequentially and compared to prior year with benefits from organic sales growth cost savings and below average spending between the lines.
So that wraps up my comments to recap; we generated solid organic sales growth we improved adjusted earnings per share and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
Now I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I’ll comment on our third quarter results mostly focused on our top line and then I’ll address our full year outlook.
So let’s start with the third quarter.
As Mark just mentioned we had a good performance in a number of areas including organic sales growth cost savings cash flow and bottom line growth.
I’m particularly encouraged with our organic top line growth of 5% in the quarter that’s a solid improvement compared to the 3% growth that we delivered in the first half of the year.
As I mentioned on our July earnings call we’re focused on driving better top line growth by taking full advantage of our innovation in marketing programs and our sales capabilities.
Our top line performance was strong in K-C International in the third quarter.
We had 10% organic sales growth there overall and we had excellent progress behind our targeted growth initiatives in that part of the world.
For example in our diaper business organic sales were up 45% in China 35% in Russia and 20% in Brazil in the third quarter.
Our growth initiatives and product innovations continued to perform very well in these markets.
Elsewhere in K-C International we delivered double-digit organic sales growth in our adult care business our baby wipes business and in K-C Professional; and organic sales were up high-single digits in our feminine care business.
So our underlying growth in K-C International remains very healthy.
Our teams are also improving mix and implementing price increases where we can in response to currency headwinds.
Outside of K-C International our top line performance in the third quarter picked up somewhat in several of our high margin businesses.
That includes our North American Huggies diapers business K-C Professional and HealthCare.
Our Huggies volumes were up 4% with benefits from improved Snug N Dry diapers supported by effective marketing communications and competitive promotion activity.
Looking ahead in the first quarter of 2014 we’ll be reducing package counts on the majority of our Huggies business in North America in conjunction with product innovation and these moves will help fund the innovation in the right price points across our line-up.
In North American K-C Professional our organic sales were up 3% in the third quarter.
That compares to a 1 point decline in the second quarter and reflects somewhat better volume performance sequentially in those categories.
In healthcare medical device volumes rose 8% after a disappointing first half of the year when these volumes were only up slightly.
And finally we continue to drive solid top line growth on our Poise Depend U by Kotex and Cottonelle brands in North America and all of these brands are benefiting from product innovations and effective marketing campaigns.
So overall I’m encouraged by our third quarter results particularly on the top line.
Now let me move to the outlook.
We continue to execute our global business plan strategies for long-term success.
So that means we’ll pursue targeted growth initiatives we’ll bring innovation to the market we’ll drive cost savings programs and we’ll allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
At the same time we expect to deliver very good financial performance this year in 2013 with solid organic sales growth and strong improvements in adjusted earnings per share.
On the top line year-to-date organic sales were up about 4% so we expect our full year to be right in line with our 3% to 5% target.
On the bottom line we’re narrowing our full year outlook by raising the low-end of our previous guidance range by $0.05 a share.
We now expect to deliver adjusted earnings in the range of $5.65 to $5.75 per share.
That represents year-on-year growth of 8% to 10% which is towards the high end of or even slightly above our long-term global business plan objective.
In terms of commodities and currencies our expectations for the full year are both generally tracking with our previous plan.
In terms of cost inflation total pulp costs are similar to our prior expectation while polymer costs have moved slightly higher recently.
Overall we expect total cost inflation for the year to be towards the middle of or perhaps in the upper half of the $150 million to $250 million range we had previously assumed.
Regarding currency rates we continue to expect about 1 point to 2 point drag from currency in our full-year sales.
Through the first nine months of the year the impact has been about 1.5%.
If recent spot currency rates hold for the balance of the year the full-year impact should be slightly similar to or slightly worse than the year-to-date drag from currency.
We’re offsetting the currency and commodity cost headwinds through strong focus on driving profitable volume growth improving net realized revenue delivering on our FORCE cost savings and closely managing discretionary spending.
The environment that we operate in continues to be challenging but I am encouraged by our execution so far this year.
So to summarize we had another good quarter of financial performance.
We expect strong overall results for the year and we remain optimistic about our prospects to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and we’ll now be happy to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the floor is now open for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hey guys how are you? Good morning Ali.
Good morning.
Hey so I guess – we included – continue to be pleasantly surprised by the KCI progress especially in Personal Care and you mentioned 45% growth in China 35% in Russia 25% in Brazil.
Can you help us just aggregate that a little bit more in terms of distribution gain share gain category growth to give us a look at the sustainability of some of those growth rates? Yes I mean I would say if you looked at the category in both those markets it’s probably grown high-single digits in China and Russia in particular probably not quite as much in Brazil.
And in both cases Russia had a lot of product innovation launched boy/girl diaper pants really doing very well in markets at premium price so that also helps us on the mix front.
Some distributions in Russia probably a little bit more in China as we continue to expand into more cities but in China we’ve launched some tier-6 products and so that’s also helping us from a mix and new category penetration.
So clearly outperforming the category and taking some share in all those markets but doing with innovation and a little bit of geographic expansion.
So – but it sounds like the way you ordered that it sounds like it’s more kind of same-store expansion as opposed to geographic expansion driving some of this growth.
Is that a fair assessment? Yes I’d say that’s probably more of the case this year than last where it was probably the opposite case last year.
I wouldn’t predict that we’re going to grow in China from 45% forever.
The compounding is pretty scary but they are definitely on a good footing over there and they’ve got lots of growth opportunities ahead.
Okay.
And then given some of your experiences with SCA whether it would be when they bought (inaudible) in Mexico or when they bought the P&amp;G tissue business in Europe.
Given the potential SCA deal in China with Vinda what should you expect what do you think you’re going to see if that actually goes through from them as such a good competitor? Ali we don’t have much of a tissue business in China.
Our business there we got a little bit of facial tissue but we’re really mostly focused on driving diapers and fem care and then we’ve things like baby wipes and other areas we built – we’ve built out first China is a fairly tough competitive tissue market with Vinda Hengan APP all there were substantial investments and so we have chosen not to play as aggressively in that space.
Well I understand totally what about leveraging that distribution for SCA’s nonwovens introduction into that geography? Yes I haven’t seen that yet again they’re not going to be a controlling shareholder for a while and there are a plenty of folks in China between Uni-Charm [Cowl] (ph) Procter us as well as Hengan it’s going to be a little different competitive set than they would have run into elsewhere in the world.
Okay cool.
And then just my last quick question also surprised about Personal Care Europe growth numbers understanding that’s going through transformation of the smaller business but can you give us a sense about the strategies there both short-term with the I guess 7% it was I think and then going forward? Well really this was the strategy all along where we said the diaper business was consuming resources and was probably starving the good performing businesses that we had in Europe and so we put more emphasis on our DryNites business in Europe which is going great and Pull-Ups and we’ve seen all those businesses take off we picked up some additional distribution as we created some shelf space and we have been able to take advantage of some of that and some of it is obviously gone to private label or other competitors but the additional emphasis a little bit of additional marketing spend some innovation and some additional distribution has helped those businesses pick up a little bit.
So I’d say baby wipes was probably the star of that show in the quarter but DryNites and Training Pants in Europe also had a solid quarter.
Okay thanks so much guys.
Thanks Ali.
Your next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Hi good morning.
Hi Wendy.
Go ahead.
Just a follow-on question with regard to KCI and the profitability there it sounds like you’re doing a lot of innovation at the premium end so this year it looks like you’re going to have a healthy bump in your KCI profit margins.
Is that sustainable? Do you think the KCI business can continue to expand its margins kind of as we look out into 2014 or is that a business that’s just going to need more reinvestment do you think? there is to grow and improve margin as particularly as we get to scale in some of the markets where we’ve been investment spending.
Yes I think the challenge in KCI this year has been -- currency has been probably the biggest headwind from a margin standpoint and we’ve had both currency issues and higher commodity costs in some markets and so that’s probably been the biggest challenge.
That team has done a great job of delivering cost savings and finding ways to fund their growth out of their own P&amp;L and doing it by basically holding their margins.
I think they are slightly higher year-to-date I think they were down slightly sequentially so… But if we could disaggregate underlying that margin improvement is your marketing spending up significantly year-over-year and is it just because hey now you have got local manufacturing I think in China that’s helping to offset that? I’m trying to get a feel for hey have there been one-time cost savings initiatives that are going to run out and is that going to be harder for you to continue to up the ante in terms of investment spending or is this a just hey positive mix is going to keep the ball rolling? Yes if you look at our marketing spending is – in KCI is probably pretty flat in dollar terms year-over-year but would be up and local currency because of the exchange rate.
We kind of look at it market-by-market and see as our share of voice where we wanted to be in each of the markets where we’re trying to drive growth and we’re pretty comfortable with the investment spend levels.
I mean I think like anything else teams would always like to spend more and we’re trying to balance that.
We’re still delivering our results and hitting a target for the year.
Got it okay.
And then just the second question on the restructuring the 2 point headwind to revenues when did that come to an end? When you’re going to be fully done with that? It should roll off and first quarter of 2014 would be the last big one.
We had a little bit still in the second quarter of this year so it should be fully rolled off by mid next year.
Got it terrific.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Wendy.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Can you talk a little bit more about some of the product volume changes in North American Personal Care the growth in Huggies which I think is the first that we’ve seen in awhile the continued weakness in Little Swimmers and also kind of the snapback in feminine care? Is there any more color you can offer? Yes sure.
In Diapers we were really not strategically where we wanted to be on price in second quarter.
So we had to adjust a couple of price points on key packings.
You saw a little bit of that and about 1 point drag on price in North American diapers.
We also tuned our marketing messages a little bit.
We had launched innovation in the second quarter.
It wasn’t hitting as hard as we wanted so we’ve changed the ad campaign in third quarter and saw that pick up nicely.
So great product performance where it has got the right messages on shelf and we are – it’s one of those where you wish you would have done in the second quarter but we didn’t and we’ve checked and adjusted and saw the results in the third quarter.
In the Child Care business the toughest comp of the year last year third quarter they were up double-digits and it had more to do with timing of promotion that shipped in the third quarter last year that shipped in the second quarter of this year.
And so if you look at our Child Care business year-to-date I think the volume is down about a point share is pretty flat and so that’s reflective of the category overall.
We continue to have as you know a pretty high share in that space.
Fem Care saw a good high-single digit growth had a little bit weaker second quarter.
Some of that is stuff that will show up and share more in the fourth quarter as it shipped a little later in the quarter.
So overall we feel pretty good about the momentum in U by Kotex and you are seeing that that play out in the marketplace.
And then in the Adult Care business its continued good in innovation and execution really a solid share performance I think we had a record share for both the pan [ph] employees in the quarter and retailers were happy with the movement as well.
Okay.
And just in Healthcare the pickup I guess there were some reference in the room at least about better surgical activity is that something you see is sustainable given the bump that you’ve had over the last few quarters.
Is that coming back and getting stronger or…? I would say the date is a little less immediately available.
So we kind of get visibility now in the second quarter surgeries and I’d say I was getting less negative in the second quarter so that’s a positive and I think in some cases some of the improvement in devices was additional penetration where we’re able to use our pain pumps on more procedures and our sales teams had some wins in the marketplace with the device products that we’re selling.
And so it was probably a function of a little bit better surgical environment and a little bit better category penetration that drove into the quarter.
Okay.
Just one last question given everything that was going on in DC over the last few weeks kind of as you exited the third quarter as is the fourth quarter did you see any shift in volume patterns in the U.S.
or not so much?  Not really I mean mostly people need diapers and bathroom tissue everyday no matter what’s going on in Washington and that was the case we don’t have a very big direct government business so that was not a factor for us to any large extent.
And we’ll see and we start to get some consumer confidence data if they had an effect from that standpoint but it’s probably little early to read that.
I know talking to some of our retail partners they did see a dip in stores that were near U.S.
military bases but that didn’t overall for us play out and much from a category standpoint.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong>  Yeah.
Hey good morning Tom.
Hey as you look into next year it looks like well first of all looking at 2012 and 2013 you’ve been able to hit $300 million plus in the FORCE savings and you’ve done so much restructuring now with the European initiative I guess towards the end.
Should we still expect that kind of rate of FORCE savings and maybe its early days but could you give us an idea of what you’re thinking about capital wise next year knowing that you haven’t really done much in the North American tissue area that I know of in terms of your planned equipment there? Yeah sure on the FORCE savings pardon me we’re pretty happy we’ve taken that up from several years ago we were around $150 million a year to solidly above $250 million now for the last couple of years and that’s certainly our aspiration is to stay there and to continue to drive that and as I look at our teams around the world that are doing more than we’ve ever done to drive transformation of their cost structure we’ve really got a very robust pipeline of cost savings coming.
And so that’s been great to help us this year overcome some of the currency headwinds and higher commodity costs.
And so certainly we’d expect a healthy level of FORCE savings to continue in 2014 and beyond.
And on the capital front I’d expect CapEx to be consistent with our global business plan and that of 4% to 5% of sales kind of ranges about where we’re going to be and so give or take around $1 billion and $1.1 billion something like that we will give you more specific guidance in January.
But that’s about where we’re roll up and I think from our capacity standpoint with all the restructuring we’ve done in the North American family care arena and all the good productivity gains we’ve gotten from our Lean and FORCE savings we’ve actually freed up quite a bit of capacity out of our own assets base just by getting more productive and efficient with our existing footprint which is really free capacity for us.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And moving on as you look at China I know in past calls you’ve talked about how your penetration has progressed in terms of number of cities have you – can you tell us where that stands maybe today versus a year or two ago and is it now more of an issue of if you have accomplished the geographic penetration now is just getting more shelf space in the cities you currently are in? Yes I mean I think our plan was to end this year around 90 cities and we are on track to hit that.
I think we started the year at 70 and two or three years ago it was 45 or 50 something like that.
Probably there are different measures you can look at but there’s a couple hundred cities in China with over a 1 million people and I think so the next city gets decreasing in size and scope.
So – but I’d say we’ve gotten the good build out in the major areas and we’re continuing to make sure we’re on the map.
We’re starting to get to the point where we got enough scale that we can do national advertising and its cost effective now or that probably wasn’t the case two or three years ago.
So I think we are at a critical math now and certainly are planning and keeping growing that.
LLC</strong> Gotcha.
And then just the last question you mentioned the initiative in the first quarter on the diaper front in terms of the package counts.
Can you give us an idea of what sort of the net effect of that will be kind of on a unit price basis and on average? And then secondly as you look at 2014 you came into 2013 obviously with a real head of steam and had tremendous growth early in a year.
And just looking at your guidance if you hit the midpoint of your range it would be basically flat at $1.37.
So as you look at 2014 besides the diaper count and obviously the – or the ongoing organic growth are there other initiatives that you could maybe point us to in terms of staying on that on your plan mid to up or single-digit growth rate? Yes and again we’ll give you more color on 2014 on the January call.
If you look at the diaper question it’s essentially going to be matching up with competitive counts in the marketplace broadly and averaged about a 7% count change now some of that will be spent back.
And so I would say the yield will be – probably be less than half of that in terms of what we’ll have to work with in terms of P&amp;L but we’ll see how that plays out as it roles out in late first quarter of next year.
And for 2014 the big question will obviously be currency rates.
And so when you look at the kind of drag that currency had on this quarter if you look at the combination of translation and transaction it’s about a 3.5 points.
And at the peak it was more like a 5 point drag when you look that where rates have peaked.
So that will be the big bet for 2014.
If we still see a big currency drag in 2014 it will be tough to get to the high-end of the range but we still think that’s the right range for us long-term to develop our plan around.
LLC</strong> Thank you very much.
Thanks Chip.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Good morning everybody.
A couple of questions the first is around North American pricing environment in general because I think one of your large competitors have signaled clearly a big focus on the North American market so just is there any specific change in behavior that you’ve noticed any fear that there will be more discounting.
I think you mentioned in that there has been some discounting if you could just talk to that? Yes I think that in the second quarter we saw some discounting in some packs and some outlets and we didn’t mess up to those quickly as we could have.
We corrected that in the third quarter.
I said that’s more than normal competitive behavior.
We had a major launch underway and competitors typically are more active to protect their business when there is a major launch activity much like we would do if the situation were reversed.
I think some of the leadership on price count activity in the marketplace would signal that there is some behavior happening on that front that would indicate that there is some innovation happening in desired place for that which is rational behavior.
So I wouldn’t say we’ve seen anything that’s unusual in the North American market at this point in time.
That’s very good news.
And just moving to Latin America a lot of companies maybe not HPC in particular but had experienced a big slow down in Brazil.
Is everything you see such as things that even though the consumer is stretched to a business doesn’t get impacted? We’ve got a phenomenal team in Brazil and they’ve done a great job of delivering in a challenging environment.
And so while they have lost couple of years they have missed their top line target in dollars they’ve grown much faster than plan and local currency and have better come very close to their dollar profit target.
So they’ve done it with driving a lot of innovation rapidly into the marketplace and pulled things forward to get them in the category.
We’ve also been expanding into the Northeastern part of Brazil and just opened a new facility in Wahiawa State this year.
And so that has given us more capacity to serve that big part of the market.
And so we’ve had a little bit of geographic expansion even in the market like Brazil where we’ve been for a while and that certainly helped.
Great.
And then the last one is over time I think one of the things the push backs investors often use on Kimberly is that it’s very commodity reliant company.
And if you could maybe articulate why things have changed over the last four to five years enough that you probably are able to manipulate price and SG&amp;A spend around fluctuations in input cost.
So do you think that you really are indeed vulnerable to big gross margin swings? Well I think that’s one that we haven’t had in the last couple of years a big commodity push.
But I’ve been around long enough.
I remember times when we did and so we went for about three years where commodities were double what we thought and that definitely put pressure on margins for a while.
We put that around and have a more robust cost savings program and I think driving innovation is giving us a better margin profile.
But we also that’s something that we’re watching for and trying to do a better job of predicting and getting ahead of where we can.
So with kind of the third quarter trend where you get both commodity and currency going against you a little bit was a challenge but the fact that we overcame that gives us confidence going forward.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Caroline.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning Chris.
Good morning guys.
One of the goal just the B2B businesses right so HealthCare and K-C Professional both got better this quarter after I guess FORCE straight margins [ph] are good.
Can you just kind of characterize that this just a change in trend do you think the businesses are better with some of the drag that were hitting the row over for now or do you just think this is one quarter? Well if I want to start with KCP I mean this had really pretty good execution and have delivered terrific profit margins.
Our innovation has been successful in the marketplace.
But we probably lost a bit of business in the part of the portfolio that we weren’t selling the new innovation to and so they’ve kind of gone back and try to make sure we’re picking up any of those opportunities that we might have lost.
And I thought to North American business for KCP turnaround in the quarter was encouraging.
So that will be one example of that.
And our KCP team would still see a lot of international opportunity as we see in KCI generally.
And so we think we’re in very early days in China in that business and there is a huge opportunity in that market industrializes for all types of products.
And so I do see a pretty robust pipeline coming for KCP in particular.
HealthCare as you know that there is some different economic factors that work when – in the past we’ve had pandemics you’ve seen huge volume spikes and then it falls off or you have to lap it at the next year.
So there is a little bit more volatility.
I think we’re all trying to figure out in North America in particular what’s going to happen from a healthcare spend overall? What’s going to happen? What procedures? And so there is probably a little bit more variability around our outlook for that business going forward.
But it was great to see a solid execution in the third quarter and good profit performance.
Yes and I guess profit was up 19% I think in the release you talked about lower marketing in R&amp;D what’s going on there? Is that sustainable reduction or is there something…? Well I would say in HealthCare if you kind of look at the year-to-date average as a better predictor of the profitability of the business we’ve had some unusual things that hit the second quarter that made a little lower than normal and probably some of those things are reversed and benefited the third quarter that made a little higher than normal.
But I’d say if you look at the year-to-date number that’s probably a pretty good proxy for our run rate for that business.
Great thanks.
And just last thing could you just remind me up from the downtown diapers in North America I heard that the yield on that is going to be probably half of what the 7% downtown but what do you expect in terms of volume like assuming in profitability kind of do the same sorts of things.
Did you expect that volume unit volume will take a little bit of a hit and even though you’re trying to kind of padded in with promotional spending and then you recovered that in six months or do you expect really in order [ph] to category volume? I mean historically every time we’ve done this it’s been around a while but done a few of these.
Here you do see a little bit of household inventory destocking because the packages have less diapers and the consumer said about the same average number of packages than they’re holding slightly fewer diapers.
So their usage per day doesn’t change just as a result of the pack count.
But their average inventory level drops by roughly half of the comp decline if you’re an economist that would probably be the right answer and we’ve typically seen that for a period of time.
So I would expect that will be a drag in the first half of next year and eventually it kind of stabilizes.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Hey can you just tell us like how that you sort of sold off a decent chunk at European business what percentage of total sales are KCI now? I know you put it in the 10-K but I was hoping to get like a sneak peak? Yeah KCI in the third quarter was 39% and year-to-date it’s probably high 30% 37% 38% we might guess some.
Okay.
And while sort of KCI sort of outside the Americas probably see predominantly your Personal Care business.
I mean are there any sort of plans or sort of build out that consumer tissue piece of that business outside of the Americas? Bill at this point we got so many opportunities we’re chasing in Personal Care are not fully exploited.
I mean if you look at the KCI business it’s still heavily overweight diapers and fem care.
And so it’s underweight baby wipes is underweight adult care both Depend on employees Childcare Little Swimmers GoodNites are all still a very small businesses.
So we said we’ve got lot of opportunity to build out KCI across the broad Personal Care portfolio.
That’s a much higher return but as we get some innovation we can bring to market.
But we probably will do it in a more capital efficient way than maybe we would have above the footprint built out in the Americas.
Gotcha.
Is there any more incremental room to kind of take pricing down the lower tiers in lot of the emerging markets? I know you had a big initiative about two years ago to get into sort of like Tier-3 and Tier-4 diapers in China.
But how far long are you in this business still sort of predominantly Tier-5 and even Tier-6 diapers? I mean I’d say in most emerging markets we’re in multi-tier and it’s more of a Tier-3 4.
China was sort of the outlier that we started in Tier-5 basically when we relaunched Huggies several years ago and then built down into the mid-tier and so we’re in Tier-3 4 5 and 6 in China basically.
I mean we just sort of created Tier-6 so we’re the only ones in it.
But there have been other markets.
If you look at market like Mexico we’d be present in all tiers.
Brazil would be probably a combination of Tiers-2 3 and 4.
Russia is mostly 3 and 4.
So we’re really trying to figure out what – where is the market today and then how do we make sure we can bring a differentiated product that delivers a good experience for mom.
Gotcha.
And then just lastly on the sort of commodity side I mean it seems like you guys are sort of fairly unconcerned about the inflation but it seems like your MBFK I guess was up $25 in October </strong>I mean why are you kind of less concerned than some of the spot prices might suggest? Yes MBFK is up but eucalyptus which we use a lot more of is down so we averaged and our outlook for that was – is $7.90 for the fourth quarter and we give you that outlook in July with more $8.05 and on October it’s below $7.70.
So we’re picking it up on other fiber sources.
Recycled fibers another one that we buy about 1 million tons of recycled fiber a year and our outlook in July was for that that averaged 245 and now we’re saying it’s going to average 214.
And so we’re seeing benefits in other fiber resources that you might not have a much visibility too that that’s helping us on that front.
Oil is certainly one that – that was – that $30 million of other cost inflation in the quarter was mostly polymer that’s oil related.
Okay.
I mean if you look at the Bloomberg number and maybe I’m getting too far in the weeds there but it looks like eucalyptus pulp prices are going up.
So am I just looking at the wrong data set or you guys buying it differently or better because you have to pick business in Brazil? I mean we’ve got a market-based contract in Brazil but you’re seeing more capacity come online and at least the stuff we’re – the average forecast we’re seeing has been headed down this year went rather than up.
So I haven’t looked at Bloomberg but that maybe of futures price or something like that but… Okay.
15% of our mix I think is now eucalyptus… Yeah.
About 25% is northern softwood so the mix of fiber we use is really important.
Gotcha.
And then just one last one I promise the capital allocation have you guys changed your view because it seems like you’re starting to get very under-levered and this year it seems like it’s going to payout more than 100% of your net income in dividends and share repurchase.
So is it that going to be kind of the ML going forward? As you know we want to be solidly in the middle of the A range.
And so if we drift up to the upper end of the A range we may increase our debt just a little bit to validate that back and you may notice that Mark and his team borrowed about $800 million in May I think to fund a $500 million debt retirement in August.
And so we increased our debt by about $300 million and then that extra amount went into share repurchases versus our plan for the year.
Great.
Thanks so much guys.
All right.
Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning folks.
Good morning Jason.
Congratulations on another good quarter.
Thank you.
Hey the question just in terms of maybe what’s changed I think you sounded slightly more cautious tone last on your reported earnings caution that you could commence the lower end if FX rates stayed about where they are today.
So what’s changed? Well I would say a couple of things.
We had a weaker volume quarter and we told you we weren’t happy about our second quarter organic top line.
And we expected to do better in the back half of the year and we saw that show up in the third quarter and so that that obviously gives you a little bit more confidence when the volume and innovation is working.
I also would say at the time of the call it was probably the height of the currency of mania and that seems to have pulled back a little bit as the FED tapering has been pushed out a little bit.
And so that’s probably given us a little bit of relief on that and it’s not quite as bad of a currency drag as we would have thought at late in July.
One area that surprised us this quarter was the strength in North American tissue and 4% organic sales growth really good momentum all throughout this year.
It’s surprising because it stands in pretty stark contrast to the Nielsen data where we aggregate your tissue business.
And trends have been decelerating and are now probably in the red.
What’s the differential that’s driving the outperformance for this business versus the Nielsen data? I haven’t analyzed this versus Nielsen.
We look at our outlook shares and our shares sequentially in tissue were slightly negative.
We did take price across facial and Cottonelle by a sheet count.
And so of the organic top line in North America was positive price negative volume as we would track it so that maybe a bit of what you are seeing if you are looking at unit volume trends.
But broadly we’ve had a very strong year in our Family Care business so we’re pretty happy with the results.
But no concern that there is too much inventory out there nothing to be concerned about that right?  These are very high-Q low value businesses so retailers really don’t want these in their warehouse.
So we’ve pretty aggressive on helping them with inventory returns.
It makes sense.
Thanks a lot guys.
I’ll pass it on.
Thanks Jason.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
How are you? LLC</strong> Good morning.
A couple of questions actually it’s a little bit of a follow-up on Jason’s questions with regards to the disconnect of track data and shipment data.
Essentially the [indiscernible] is that the non-track channels basically which is essentially [indiscernible] you maybe growing very strong double-digits started for our assessment? And I guess however we won’t give a specific customer data on a call like this.
We are doing well with Costco this year we do well with Dollar Stores.
There are other E-Com channels that are on track that are typically growing.
So I would say broadly we tend to look more at our – all outlet share and try to make sure we’re fully participating in the category growth.
And Nielsen is one set of data points that we would look at but we tend to look at the broad data set more than anything else.
LLC</strong> But when you say higher we got the same weak volumes but in any event moving into the decision of removing sheet out of facial tissue and what is the other category that you mentioned as your de-sheeting in tissue? Cottonelle that tissue.
LLC</strong> So basically </strong> we see increases of private label volume share you don’t see that happening? Yes if you look at a lot of the private label share gains this year was I think in at least partly response to GP’s service issues where they actually lost some shelf space to private label.
We picked up a little bit as did our other primary competitor.
And I think as we see GP coming back into full customer service I would say at this point we’re seeing a more normal level of competitive activity in the marketplace.
But we’re pretty comfortable with our overall performance in tissue and that we’ll still be competitive as we need to in the marketplace LLC</strong> Understood.
And finally on Huggies the rebound in the quarter </strong>to what extent do you think that the fact that [Indiscernible] lowered their own diaper count in the second half of September could have been a benefit this quarter in personal care in North America? Yeah I think our Huggies business was pretty solid throughout the quarter and so there may have been some changeover late in the quarter that was some small advantage but I would say it was pretty consistent growth throughout the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay thank you very much.
All right thank you Javier.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Good morning Lauren.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Firstly I want to ask you about with just with marketing spending and some of you guys discussed advertising and some with strategic marketing.
So I realize there might be kind of mixing the conversation but having it down slightly this quarter and I believe that earlier in the year too it’s slightly different than what you’ve last talked about I think that was you made it sound like it was going to increase in the back-half of the year.
So if certainly if I mean if that’s incorrect and secondly why not increasing the spending when top line is coming in strongly you’ve simply got sort of somewhat excess profitability to work with? It’s a good question and as we look at the strategic marketing it’s a combination of advertising and promotion.
It’s down about $20 million in the quarter about half of that is the exit of diapers from Europe and currency.
So the fact that rates have have dropped so the other half of that was an actual decline in program spending.
Advertising itself is flat year-on-year.
So all of that decline was really what we call consumer promotion which would be a combination of things that would flow through that that line in the P&amp;L generally less a little bit less activity.
And what we look at is are we spending at the right level and getting the current top line performance for the spending that we’re making.
And overall we’re pretty happy with the organic top line in the quarter.
And as we look at the key markets that we are investing in we feel like we’re investing at about the right level.
And so it’s really above the ROI and the next dollar spend is that worth chasing or you bring it to the bottom line.
And so I think each of our teams around the world look at that and then our global brand teams are also challenging that to make sure that we’re making smart investments if we got some flexibility in the P&amp;L to do that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That’s particularly interesting given that sales growth and organic did accelerate nicely though it wasn’t step up in spend?  Yeah but in local currency though just being flat is a pretty big increase and spend in those market.
So we’ve looked at KCI and say yeah we’re actually in spending more in local currency in those markets.
Inc.</strong> Okay understood.
And then I know it’s not a terribly large business that I just was curious about the really strong performance in K-C Professional in Europe because that it give us 5% price and then you also had 3%-ish positive mix and volume made high numbers mix of long and short all three features were very strongly positive.
So can you talk a little bit about that that was sort of dramatic acceleration? I think that might have been our overall year of business Paul you got with that…? Yeah I mean Lauren we were up double-digits in K-C Professional in KCI and that’s what you’re referring to.
In all three pieces we’re up nicely in terms of volume and pricing mix.
Inc.</strong> All right yeah that’s it.
Yeah.
Inc.</strong> That’s how… Yeah that was really led by Latin America but broadly was the strongest of those or that business is done well.
But the European business in KCI was okay during the quarter looked a lot more like North America though and let’s say the UK is probably coming back a little bit.
You’ve seen that in some of the economics statistics and Germany was okay and Southern Europe is a challenge.
Inc.</strong> And then with that like you corrected me thank you.
The Latin America heading into process you said Latin America is being particularly responsible for that acceleration.
Was there any kind of change in sales resources? Do you increase the sales force or broadened the footprint you’re able to reach that it was big number to file? Our K-C Professional team is really driving their global strategy.
In fact we would say overall we did well on Latin America.
We’re not satisfied with what we’re doing in China.
We’re putting more resource behind KCP in a lot of markets around the world and investing behind that.
Unlike consumers doesn’t show up in a strategic A&amp;P is probably shows up more in selling expense and G&amp;A than in the traditional strategic marketing bucket.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Lauren.
My next question comes from Olivia Tong with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
I want to touch a little bit on KCI margins clearly you’ve done quite well in terms of international sales.
But how do you think about margins going forward? Do you expect them to progress faster than the corporate average or is there more spending to come specific to KCI? Yeah that’s a balance.
We’re really tracking KCI to continue to narrow the margin gap versus the rest of the company and so they’ve made some progress this year although currency headwinds have held them back from some of the progress that they help to make.
And so we’re trying to balance investing for growth in the places where we got great opportunity and then looking for opportunities to take cost out to help fund our margin improvement.
And so we’re satisfied with the progress but we expect to continue to do more.
Got it thanks.
And then on North American diapers obviously you’ve had some promotion in price adjustments this quarter which I would expect to is probably going to continue and then you’ve got the diaper downtown on the new product.
So what do you think the net impact of both price and mix will be going forward in North America? Are we still looking at either positive price mix from that plus 7% even though it goes down to plus 3% or is that the promotion offset that? Well you should see some positive but it won’t start to happen until probably late first quarter of 2014.
So for the next couple of quarters you’ll still see some drag from price promotion activity.
Got it.
And then just lastly can you just talk about trends month-by-month both in developing markets and emerging markets.
Did you see you mentioned Huggies Diapers in North America but did you see any difference in trends coming from July through August through September? We’ve had a pretty solid consistent quarter throughout but I’d say broadly it was a pretty solid quarter month-by-month.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
All right.
Thanks Olivia.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Hey Chip.
LLC</strong> Hey there.
Just one last one here I noticed the equity line really is trending very positively this year.
It looks like 26% up – through the first nine months and so as you look at the future could you talk a little bit about what’s really happening in Mexico especially now that for example you have a different competitor down there and you see that kind of growth rate continuing or is there something else going on on that line? As we go through Mexico I think they announced late last week and had their call with their outlook.
So I don’t want to trump whatever Pablo might have told you on the call.
But we’ve been very happy with the year they’ve put together.
It’s a tougher economic environment than they thought.
So the Mexican economy was expected to grow kind of 4% 5% in the last date I saw it was just a little under 1%.
And so lots of exciting change happening in that marketplace.
But that has probably also created some challenges in the short-term.
There is lots of competition down there.
So CMPC is pretty aggressive FCA is pretty aggressive.
So there is plenty of people that want to eat our lunch in Mexico.
But the K-C de Mexico team has done a great job of delivering as they have for many many years and I’d expect that to continue going forward probably not at that same kind of growth rate.
But they’re going to be a solid consistent top and bottom line performance for us.
LLC</strong> Gotcha thanks.
Thanks Chip.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hey… Hey thanks for the follow-up.
I just want to get your view Tom on the North American consumer paper consumer tissue business your largest retailer said explicitly that they’re going to double down on investments in pricing in paper products and there is discussion about a lot of more capacity coming online both private label and kind of lower end brands.
Just want to get a sense of what you make up all of that and that’s too much about nothing really in your view? Well I mean I would just start to see those guys not long ago and they want to grow their business in lots of categories.
And so I think they’ll Simon and his team are aggressively are doing that as this all of other retail customers.
And so we’re doing well with our key customers in our family care categories and lot longer we’re one of those and we want to make sure that we make it easy for consumers to find Kleenex and Cottonelle and Scott where they choose to shop.
So I wouldn’t say that’s a big change – we haven’t seen a big change in behavior at this point in time.
And we’re trying to connect the point specifically that they’re making about pricing in particular being a driver and the point about capacity coming online? On the capacity front I think the industry operating rate is still in the – around 90% so there has been a lot of capacity that’s exited as much of the sales has come on.
And where you have seen a little bit of private label share pickup it hasn’t been in [indiscernible] variance that some had been concerned about.
And so overall there is a little bit of additional capacity but it hasn’t been destabilizing the market pricing at this point in time.
And so you don’t see anything going forward that would change dynamics and consumer tissue in the U.S.? Not at this stage.
And we’re focused on driving innovation with better performing Kleenex.
We’ve had some Cottonelle upgrades.
We’ve got some great Viva and Scott Towel products out there.
So we’ve got and a good pipeline of innovation coming that will give us some news we can talk about in 2014 and beyond.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Ali.
Mr.
Mark Buthman we have no further questions in the queue.
All right.
Thank you for the questions and thanks David.
We’ll wrap up with a quick closing comment from Tom.
So once again we were pleased with our organic top line performance and our continued execution of our global business plan and that we continue to make those benefits be available to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
So thank you again for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of this morning’s presentation we will open the lines for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you’d like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today’s first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark’s year-end earnings conference call.
Here in Dallas with me today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of our 2013 results focusing mostly on the full year.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and also the outlook for 2014.
We’ll finish with Q&amp;A.
We have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investors section of our website.
That presentation in this morning’s earnings news release both include our detailed planning assumptions for 2014.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our last Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook both excludes certain items described in this morning’s news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I’ll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let’s start with some headlines for the full year.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 4% and was highlighted by strength in K-C International.
Second we increased adjusted earnings per share of 10% driven by organic sales growth and strong cost savings.
And third we delivered a strong year of overall capital management.
Now let’s cover the details of our results.
Fourth quarter sales were $5.3 billion that was even with the prior year that brought full year sales to $21.2 billion also even with year ago.
If you exclude currency and restructuring impacts our organic sales were up 5% in the quarter and 4% for the full year.
Our momentum in K-C International continues to be strong as organic sales were up 11% in the fourth quarter and 9% for the full year.
Fourth quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.4% with the full year at 34.5%.
It’s up 70 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating margin was 15.8% in the fourth quarter and 15.7% for the full year that’s up 90 basis points compared to prior year.
We delivered $310 million of FORCE cost savings in 2013 the second highest amount we have ever achieved.
We expect to continue our momentum going forward and are targeting to deliver at least $300 million of cost savings in 2014.
We absorbed $205 million of input cost inflation in 2013 that was right in line with our expectations.
Currencies were also a drag on earnings.
Translation was a $70 million negative and transaction effects were also unfavorable.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.44 bringing our full year to $5.77 that’s up 10% year-on-year slightly above the top end of our long-term target and well above our original guidance range for the year.
Our balance sheet and cash generation were healthy and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways.
Cash from operations was more than $3 billion now that’s down somewhat year-on-year as we expected with higher tax payments and then cash cost especially with the strategic changes that we have implemented in Europe.
We had a great year driving down primary working capital.
Cash conversion cycle improved six days in 2013.
We expect a further one to two day improvement in 2014.
Return on invested capital also improved significantly climbing 150 basis points to 17.5% for the year.
We are targeting a further 20 to 40 basis point improvement in 2014.
We returned $2.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
For 2014 we expect to repurchase $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion of KMB stock.
Regarding the dividends we expect an increase of 2% to 4% in 2014 that will allow us to maintain an appropriate payout ratio following the expected spin-off of our healthcare business later this year.
In the future after this year we would expect our dividend increases to return to being broadly in line with growth in our adjusted earnings per share.
Our credit metrics and financial position are strong we’re confident in our outlook.
As a result we’re planning for a modest increase in leverage in 2014.
Now I will briefly recap segment results for the year.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 5%; performance was led by K-C International with organic sales up 9%.
Full year Personal Care operating margins were solid at 17.8% to an increase of 50 basis points year-on-year.
Moving to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up 5% that was driven by a 9% increase in K-C International and a 3% improvement in North America.
Consumer Tissue operating margins of 14.9% were up a 130 basis points building further on our progress over the last two years.
Turning to K-C Professional organic sales increased 3%.
Organic sales improved 9% in K-C International and were up slightly in North America and Europe.
Our KCP team continues to deliver strong margin improvement despite relatively modest demands in our developed markets.
For the year margins were 18.3% it's up a 170 basis points year-on-year and lastly healthcare organic sales rose 1% for the year driven by higher volumes at our Medical Device business.
Healthcare operating margins were 14.2% were up 10 basis points year-over-year.
Now speaking to healthcare let me touch briefly on the potential spin-off of that business.
We’re making good progress analyzing the implications of the spin.
We’re preparing (indiscernible) our financial statements and plans for separation.
We expect to seek approval from our Board in the second quarter to proceed with the execution and the spin-off and we continue to expect the spin-off to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2014 of course subject to market regulatory and other conditions.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth in 2013.
We delivered strong bottom-line growth and we allocated capital and shareholder friendly ways.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will share my perspectives on our full year results first and then I will address our outlook for 2014.
So starting with 2013 overall I’m very happy with the results that we delivered last year in a challenging environment.
As Mark just mentioned we delivered organic sales growth of 4% and that’s right in line with our long term target of 3% to 5%.
K-C International had another great year at 9% organic sales growth that made excellent progress on the targeted growth initiatives.
For example in diapers our organic sales were up more than 35% last year in China and about 20% in both Brazil and Russia and results in all three countries benefited from products innovation.
In China our Huggies diapers are now being sold in about 90 cities and we’re targeting to be in more than a 100 cities by the end of 2014.
Couple of our growth initiatives in KCI were adult care and baby wipes and in both of those areas organic sales grew at double digit rates in KCI this year.
In feminine care our organic sales rose high single digits in KCI.
We had a very strong year in fem care in Latin America and we continue to benefit from the roll-out of some of our premium product variations similar to U by Kotex in the U.S.
K-C Professional organic sales were up high single digits in K-C International and we’re growing there as industrialization and economic development roll-out across those regions.
So overall I’m very encouraged by the progress we’re making in K-C International and that part of the business now makes up 39% of our total company sales.
In North America we drove solid sales growth and we launched innovations on several brands including the Depend Poise U by Kotex and Cottonelle.
On Huggies diapers our innovation marketing and promotion strategies led to some improved performance in the back half of the year and slightly higher volumes for the year in total.
Our North American brands are healthy overall.
We had market shares that were up or even with the prior year in 7 of our 8 major categories.
In terms of profitability and bottom-line growth in 2013 we had margins improve in North America and Europe in K-C International and they also increased in all four business segments.
This broad-based improvement is a sign of a healthy business.
I’m pleased that we delivered 10% growth and adjusted earnings per share.
That’s our best performance since we launched the global business plan more than 10 years ago.
Finally as Mark has already highlighted we continue to operate with financial discipline.
We delivered significant FORCE cost savings last year.
We improved our working capital and ROIC.
And we returned substantial cash to our shareholders.
So overall we delivered on our commitments in 2013 and we have got good momentum going forward.
So let’s move to our outlook for 2014.
We will continue to focus on delivering a healthy growth model and leveraging our financial discipline.
That means we plan to drive the top line with growth initiatives and innovations to increase margins behind strong cost savings to continue to invest in our brands to improve our return on invested capital and to improve our cash flow.
And now in terms of our specific targets on the top line we expect organic sales to grow by 3% to 5% including another year of high single-digit growth organic growth in K-C International.
We will launch a number of new innovations in KCI including diaper and feminine care upgrades in Brazil China and Russia.
We also expect to make further progress expanding our adult care baby wipes in K-C Professional businesses internationally.
We have got a strong innovation pipeline coming in North America.
In a near-term that includes activity on Huggies diapers and baby wipes our GoodNites youth pants Depend briefs and Viva towels.
To support our brands and growth initiatives we will increase advertising and research and development spending faster than sales.
On the bottom line we are targeting adjusted earnings per share in the range of $6 to $6.20 that’s up 4% to 7% year-on-year.
Our plan includes a 3 to 4 point drag from negative currency translation as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
So taking that into account our underlying growth is solidly in line with or even slightly ahead of our long-term objective.
As usual our plan is based on forward currency exchange rates.
We have also assumed some bottom line negative impact in Venezuela from either a currency devaluation or ongoing market volatility.
We have assumed the commodity cost inflation this year will be similar to last year in the range of $150 million to $250 million.
We expected adjusted earnings per share will be higher in the second half of 2014 as compared to the first half.
Recent spot currency exchange rates are already broadly consistent with what we expect for the full year and the benefits of price increases our growth initiatives and our cost savings program will layer in as the year progresses.
Finally we will continue to focus on cash generation and capital allocation in 2014.
Cash provided by operations should increase nicely year-on-year driven by earnings growth and lower restructuring payments and we’ll allocate about $2.5 billion to dividends and share repurchases which represents a cash return of about 6% based on our current market capitalization.
So to summarize our financial performance was excellent in 2013.
Our business fundamentals are healthy and improving and we are optimistic about our plans for 2014 and the opportunities that we have to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks.
And now we will begin to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the floor is now open for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi guys.
Good morning Ali.
Hey a few things to think about.
One is in terms of competition we heard for example from K-C de Mexico yesterday and actually (indiscernible) again we have had increased competition in Mexico.
We are hearing hopefully hang on re-launch more directly with (indiscernible) on the horizon.
Can you give us a sense of the competitive situation right now and what you anticipate both in personal care and consumer tissue and if there are any particular hotspots to think about what it was?  That’s a fair question.
Yes I think that there is everyday somebody gets up and wants to eat our launch Ali.
So we know we have to be moving pretty fast on innovation and cost savings and other things to continue to deliver the kind of results that we posted this year.
And Mark and I were just in Mexico on Tuesday and spent some time with Pablo and the team down there.
And it was a tough competitive quarter lot of price investment that didn’t yield a lot of volume improvement for anybody.
And so I think they will have a challenging start to 2014 but they have got a lot of innovation coming.
And then in the end that’s what usually drives on that front.
Globally from the competitive standpoint in personal care we probably look at Unicharm as one that’s more aggressive in moving outside of Japan into other markets.
We know that they are going to be launching some new products in Brazil.
We believe they are and we’re preparing for that with a lot of innovation and a lot of improvement in our business there to be ready for their launch.
So that’s one that we watch as probably Unicharm and lots of places and they tend to play more in the premium end of the category where we tend to play as well.
China has gotten more competitive broadly it's not just hang on; I mean I would say in the Personal Care space.
Procter is aggressive Unicharm is aggressive Kao is in there through ecomm [ph].
So it's a relatively growing market and we’re doing pretty well over there but we know we got to continue to drive innovating in China to make sure we keep the momentum that we have got on that front.
Broadly in the U.S.
that would be the typical player so Procter would be one that we would see but on the other hand you got Energizer just bought J&amp;J’s Fem Care business and so we’re watching to see what happens as they observe that and do some things to change the trajectory if that does.
So lots of competition in Personal Care and I would say we feel like we have got good innovation coming to weather the storm.
On the tissue front we have a lot of regional competitors as well.
The FCA Vinda deal in China we’re not a big tissue player in China so that one is really not one that I worry too much about.
CMPC a Chilean Company is big in tissue in Chile in the Southern Cone but they are growing out of the Southern Cone and doing some things in Brazil.
They are part of the challenge that we see in Mexico and we watch those guys pretty closely as well.
In North America you know it's us Procter and GP and private label and private label is probably the most aggressive competitor.
Last GP had some challenges early in the year which clearly benefited our start to 2013 in the North American tissue category and they are now back in normal supply and so we won't have that tailwind and they will be a tougher competitor going into the year but we have gotten again got a lot of good things happening with improvements on Cottonelle.
Some big news on Viva on a stronger Kleenex line-up again.
So maybe more than you’re looking for Ali but lots going on competitively around the world.
are you modeling that in terms of how you think about 2014 that things aren’t going necessarily get easier or you’re in fact modeling some anticipation of competitive fervor.
No I mean like I said two things one is we have a really strong innovation lineup coming so that makes me feel pretty good about how we will fair versus competition.
We’re actually seeing some of the currency movement in some places some competitors taking price up in some markets which that’s also things that typically happen on a normal competitive cycle.
So that would be a positive.
On the other hand we know we have got lots of good companies that would like to take some of our market share and so we’re not going to give that up easily and we’re going to be competitive and make sure we get at least our fair share of the growth on these markets and to answer your question directly I mean I would say this is not that different from what you normally see in the competitive environment maybe a little bit more intense with a few more global players coming at you but I would say I’ve also seen more aggressive periods in my career.
So it's not out of the line of reason here.
So one thing that is different and you guys reported and gave your commodity guidance and swift [ph] from NBSK to eucalyptus in your explicit guidance and can you help us think through that.
Is that something you guys are equally capable of doing is the range given on eucalyptus taking into account some of the increases we have seen in Latin America and Spain in December and January and where do you think that trajectory is? So just a little bit more about that particular commodity does it change things competitive with you?  We have been doing this internally for a while because Northern Softwood has not been has been a shrinking part of our fiber mix for many years and now eucalyptus is the largest single grade that we buy and so we actually thought it will be better disclose before investors and now that that information is a little bit more readily available or Northern Softwood was kind of the benchmark that everyone tracked and so we track both internally obviously but eucalyptus is probably the one that’s a bigger driver and it's going to have more of an impact as you try to model our cost going forward and so we’re calling it in the 800 to 830 range.
It's that 860 right now so we would say yeah we’re going to have a little bit of headwind in the start of the year but our guys look at the Reese [ph] forecast and think they have got it right but you will see weaken a little bit later in the year and we will see what happens.
Obviously currency can have a role to play there if the Brazilian real goes south in a hurry you may not see as much downside there but we will see what happens.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Maybe just sticking on pulp for a minute do you have opportunities if the new capacity really pressures hardwood a lot to increase the share of eucalyptus that you are using or you view it pretty much there like what you can?  We have been slowly increasing them.
And this is probably more a detail than you want but two grades of fiber perform a different role in the make the tissue.
So northern softwood actually provides strength and eucalyptus provides softness.
And so we have been trying to do a better job of making tissue strong while using more eucalyptus to make it even softer.
And so that’s more of the reason why we shifted.
It’s been of a price fiber driven grade.
It’s more – we are trying to deliver soft tissue and still deliver enough strength so that it performs well.
And so that’s more of the function than anything else.
We keep driving it that way.
And there is a limit as to how far you can go at some point.
You will have to have some string fiber in the mix.
Okay.
And I appreciate the comments on the competitive environment that maybe just taking a step up could you give some comments in terms of what you are seeing and in terms of just underlying demand in some of your core markets? Are you any more optimistic about changes in China? And are you finally seeing signs of the churn in birth rates in the U.S.?  I’d say in China we have the drag in year babies that all were born.
And that probably boosted the category the last 12 to 18 months or so that because trainees train their babies quicker than they do in the U.S.
that will roll off.
So the category growth in ‘14 probably won’t be as robust but we got a lot of innovation coming.
We still got a lot of category penetration opportunity and we will be expanding our geography.
And so as a 35% growth that we had on average last year in China and we slowed down in the fourth quarter I think it was low 20s.
And so you will probably model a slightly lower growth rate in China but still pretty healthy relative to everywhere else in the world.
In the U.S.
the birth rate has been pretty stable I mean it’s not getting worse it’s not getting usually better.
So we are still right around 1.7 1.8ish kind of a rate and we are not seeing much on the consumer confidence front that’s pushing it hard.
I think we talked in the past it’s a bit related to consumer confidence and employment levels and those are getting slightly more positive but not enough that we are seeing it drive the growth rate significantly.
Okay.
And can you just I guess you mentioned negative pricing in the personal care segment in the U.S.
can you just talk a little bit about what was driving that?  Yes we did kind of a switch in the marketing mix a bit in the quarter.
We started this really in the second half where we essentially shifted some money from couponing the trade.
We wanted to be bit more competitive on shelf every day.
And so you saw a negative price but then you also saw positives in between the lines on strategic marketing and so really that’s more couponing related.
We spent about the same level of advertising broadly across the company for the year.
I think advertising spend as a percent of sales was down 10 basis points some of that was productivity related where we did better on immediate buying.
But in the fourth quarter on baby child care it was more of a switch from consumer promotion to trade and we saw that in kind of mid-single digit volume growth for Huggies.
Okay.
And just last question consumer tissue has pretty robust earnings in the quarter and I am just wondering what you attribute that to as there was some reference to lower spending in that category was that the big driver was it the price benefit from the de-sheeting?  So I mean it was pretty good de-sheeting benefits that flowed through.
And so that way we show that it shows a negative volume and positive price and that was part of it but good cost savings broadly.
And so I think that was solid quarter.
And again we are encourage by the progress we have made in consumer tissue over the last several years of consistent margin improvement to get it back to kind of the mid-teens levels.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Gail.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
I have a question actually you alluded earlier with Ali but will like to have kind of like a little bit more color on the U.S.
When you look at…  I gave Ali all the color I have.
Yeah let’s see if you can give me a little bit of more contrast.
Is it specific with the private label growth the volume growth that at least we see in the mid-teens in track channels right? And to what extend given that each part of you and Procter and Georgia-Pacific and private label pretty much have the same market share.
Is it a concern or not that the growth of the private label would may undermine the pricing architecture of the tissue category to the extent that people are going into private label into the teens in terms of volume.
Yeah I would say private label growth of that level is always a concern.
You saw when GP had some of their problems early in the year they actually ceded shelf space to private label and some retailers and so when you get more distribution in a lot of these accounts that directly drives volume and velocity in share and so the good news is that our shares were pretty stable in this environment and but it's also one that you worry about from a category dynamic standpoint and we got to make sure that we’re doing the right job of delivering value with our brands across Cottonelle and Scott and Viva and Kleenex to make sure that consumers know that we’re going to take good care of them and their family.
So we feel pretty good about the momentum that we have got overall with tissue and a lot of good things coming but we’re watching the private label situation carefully.
Tom the other question has to do with the change in packaging that my understanding they want to be implementing in diapers in the U.S.
My understanding is is it not that you’re going to be reducing the number of diapers this quarter or have you already done that? What is the initial reaction from the consumer standpoint if you can give us an update on that?  Yeah I mean our primary competitor as you probably know did that change in the fourth quarter and it takes a little while to convert your lines over to the new counts and so we will be following that in the first quarter.
I think we start shipping those in February and again not much consumer reaction that we can tell in the fourth quarter.
Unusually what happens in this kind of process where you do a count reduction you wind up with a small household inventory decline because on average you’re buying fewer diapers and so you typically see a little bit of a category dip for a while but we didn’t actually see that in the fourth quarter.
Overall the category was up a little bit more than normal so that’s one thing we will watch as we roll through that in the first quarter.
And finally on China I don’t know whether I missed it or not but it seems like you didn’t mention or at least I didn’t hear it further expansion in Chinese cities I think that you mentioned the support [ph] that you now have but are you continued taking expansion further into this less developed cities or that is something that is behind you?  We’re at about 90 cities now we will be in more than 100 by the end of 2014 and again these are all pretty big cities too.
They are all over a million people.
So it's a pretty amazing place as I’m sure you know and so there is great expansion coming on these deal so had a big fem care launch in China in the fourth quarter that’s going well and so we will be expanding not just our geographic representation but also building our portfolio beyond the huge healthcare as we have got lots of things we can do in feminine care and ultimately adult care in China.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Did I hear you say that you reflected some Venezuela impact in guidance? Can you just talk about kind of what you were assumptions were and maybe there is any Argentina impact in there as well?  We did reflect some Venezuela income statement impact in guidance.
We did not try to predict of what it's deval would be or what happened.
We essentially said that something is probably going to happen in Venezuela whether we can’t exchange at the level we got in 2013.
If they don’t devalue or if they do devalue we will have a translation hit and it also depends on what happens with price control.
So there is a number of different variables and so we assumed we would make less money in Venezuela in 2014 than we did in 2013.
We made a little less in 2013 than we did in 2012.
So that’s we probably took a little bit of an adjustment for that.
And in Argentina we look at forward exchange rates at the time we have rolled the guidance together and make a guess on where that’s going to go.
So we have a prediction of some currency weakening in Argentina.
If you look at current spot rates I don’t know where they are this morning but as of yesterday that would be worse than what we have in our guidance but that’s again a low single-digit percentage of our overall business.
And I don’t think we would have any adjustment for that in our outlook at this point in time.
Great thank you so much.
And do you think you should have a price down there because last time we all kind of got hand rung about what’s going to go on in Argentina Venezuela it seemed like everybody is kind of priced through it? Is that still an option now or is that kind off the table?  Yes.
We have an excellent team in Argentina.
And if you are able to launch innovation you are often able to couple pricing with that and that team has been able to pull forward innovation and get some pricing to offset the impact of inflation in that market at least partially and they have also been terrific about making sure their existing tax sizes and then having a relevant offer for the consumer that is a little squeezed on what they are able to spend.
So we actually had a pretty good year overall in Argentina and we would obviously like even better margins and like to continue to grow even faster but in the environment that they are in they executed at a pretty high level.
Great thanks.
And then just to sort of follow-up on the personal care stuff I mean the 16.5% operating margin in the quarter I mean sort of both neutral is that kind of the new level of operating margin to the business because I always thought that personal care should always sort of be structurally higher than personal care all things being equal on the sort of commodity neutral basis and just tell me if I am wrong there?  Yes.
I would look more at the full year margins for all of the segments.
That was a better precursor.
Fourth quarter you have passive write-offs and other things that you do trade promotion accrual.
So there is couple of things that probably pushed personal care a little lower than the normal average and probably pushed tissue a little higher than the normal average but that’s why I think the full year number is more representative and then we would look to build from there.
I still believe that if you look at 2014 we will have a full year of our exit from Europe which will be a margin improvement.
We have got some price coming in the first quarter in North America which will help.
And so there is a lot of things that would indicate that we should get some margin improvement in personal care off the 2013 average in 2014.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one from Mark I mean how do we think about the spin off now in terms of the dividend that’s coming back to Kimberly because I know you are only growing the dividend 2% to 4% because of some of the loss cash flow from the healthcare spend but it was my understanding that there is an option there to put some extra debt on the businesses it’s been I mean that might come back in you could just buyback stock or payout a special dividend.
Is that still within your consideration?  Yes I mean that’s all part of planning I mean typically on a spend I think the way we framed our dividend is pretty typical you kind of reorient the new size of your expected balance sheet.
And I would expect to capitalize the new company in a way that’s appropriate for its business and it’s not unlikely that you would have a one-time dividend to come back.
You think about the way we think about cash flow.
That maybe more of accelerated share repurchase.
Yes yes.
I don’t think we are going to do a special dividend Bill.
No.
Okay got you.
But you are going to use the money to give it back to shareholders when it comes back in because it seemed like there is a capital requirements or anything?  Yes absolutely.
We don’t keep extra cash on the balance sheet.
So we will pay it as we always.
Perfect thanks for your time.
Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to what – within your 3% to 5% total growth rate for the company that’s planned for 2014 what are your – what are you expecting for developed versus developing market growth?  It’s similar to where we were this year kind of high single-digit organic growth for K-C International and low single-digit organic growth in North America as you look at what’s going on in that front.
So and Europe would be relatively flat maybe a little bit – maybe similar to North America.
Got it.
And then on gross margin you posted solid gross margin improvement this year despite obviously some raw material and FX headwinds so with that backdrop can you give some color on where you think the opportunity is for gross margin not just for 2014 but also long-term and how does it breakout between savings and leverage versus mix from both the category and geographic perspective?  Yes I mean I think lot of levers that we are looking at for gross margin.
Innovation and mix are two at the top-line level that are really rich opportunities for us as we continue to grow personal care as we continue to grow into higher margin segments things like in the adult care space baby wipes et cetera.
Those can provide a nice uplift to gross margin.
On the cost savings front and again next year it will be a second year in a row that we’re in the 300 million plus range and ahead of inflation so that’s another boast from a gross margin standpoint.
We’re still getting very good productivity growth we’re still rolling at our global procurement capability.
We’re still working on specification changes to make sure we’re getting good value for all the components that go into the product and all those things should drive a robust cost savings culture going forward and so we’re pretty encouraged that we can continue to deliver that.
There is a little bit of a drag from geographic mix as K-C International’s gross margins are on average lower than North America but if you look last year overall I think on the operating margin standpoint the K-C International is probably less than a 10 basis point drag.
So that really wasn’t the big negative force for us overall.
And just lastly appreciate the color on first half very second half and fully understand that you don’t provide quarterly guidance but given that you’ve got a pretty tough comp in Q1 with the (indiscernible) comp and then just also disruptions at GP last year that helped you can you talk a little bit more about the changes [ph] of quarterly earnings for 2014 and do you expect Q1 to post year-over-year EPS growth?  Yeah we’re not going to give quarterly earnings guidance as we said so I guess I think from what we told you going in the first quarter we’re going to have some headwinds and some tailwinds.
So clearly currency will be a headwind versus last year pulp cost would be higher in fact higher than our full year average.
On the other hand we’re going to get some price in some categories.
So we had a very strong start last year and we know it's a tough comp to lap so I wouldn’t be surprised if we were down a little bit in the first quarter but we expect to see again we’re comfortable with the overall guidance for the year and the second half will probably be a little bit better than the first half.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Can you help I guess reconcile some of the personal care emerging markets growth numbers that you’re seeing with I guess what are the most readily available data points on what market growth rate and Kimberly growth rates.
I guess you guys are putting up faster growth numbers in diverse in China and everywhere else and yields since then [ph] and totally appreciating their differences.
Can you just kind of help us reconcile that a little bit to sort of you will elevate the concern that there are warehouse is full of diapers back somewhere in China.
Can you just kind of address that?  Yeah I’m pretty sure that’s not the case.
I’m pretty sure that people don’t want to take positions in high cube items like this but couple of things first of all the international market share data is not as well developed as North America.
In North America you have much more coverage and much more scanned outlets and it's still a good part of the emerging markets that is in the traditional trade which is not well covered as really a sample at best.
And so we have even seen some disconnect since some markets were you know Russia we’re up 20% in diapers this year if you looked at it I think the Nielsen surely would say we lost share and yet the category didn’t grow 20%.
Category in Russia was probably up 12% and so but they only cover maybe three quarters of the outlets at best and so emerging market it is a little tough to get benchmarks on what’s going on but generally I would say in markets like Russia China Brazil we’re growing faster than the category and in China and forget it's a geographic expansion.
We continue to drive innovation and grow in multiple tiers.
It is a good part of it but we’re also driving a lot in some of untrack channels.
So ecomm [ph] in China for example is a big driver of that category.
In Argentina we are very big in the (indiscernible) which are the small diaper stores and those aren’t really attract Nielsen channel and if you go to Brazil we’re doing well in (indiscernible) and that’s not a channel that’s tracked as readily as some of the modern trade would be and so I don’t worry too much about that but it does making it a little tougher for outsiders to get a good benchmark on that? That’s really helpful.
I appreciate it.
And I guess just one other on a totally different note I mean look you endured years and years of pretty nasty part of the inflation and if we all really moving into a period where that sort of inflation is going to be more benign I guess one how does it affect if at all how you think about managing your business and managing innovation for that matter? And then I guess when you sight innovation and new product development as a way to drive gross margin because it sounds sort of like structurally from a benchmarking perspective you don’t view your gross margin that is too low for the type of businesses you are in? Is that right? And do you see an opportunity for Kimberly to be significantly higher in gross margin over time maybe even getting to 40% at some point?  Yes.
No I think that Mark and I still have scarred from those commodity battles.
So I wouldn’t say that we have totally forgotten what that felt like but the good news is in past years if you had $250 million of commodity inflation we were a $100 million to $150 million cost savings kind of company that you wound up with a big problem.
Now that we are delivering more consistently on the cost savings front we are probably feeling a little bit more confident that we can handle some of the swings in commodity costs a bit easier.
We are also seeing as you get better innovation you got more opportunity for pricing power in many of these markets as well.
And so that is another lever that we can pull in some markets to be able to offset that.
And so given your question on gross margin absolutely we would love to continue to build gross margin and we do think that gives you the franchise value that drives multiple over time.
And it is a metric that we are focused on internally as well as operating margin.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks.
Actually I had wanted to ask about FORCE that kind of asked question with a perfect lead-in the acceleration that you are delivering on FORCE savings overall and another big year expected from ‘14 it will be great if you could tell us a little bit about what kinds of new programs or areas you have been kind of driving into to drive these incremental savings and how the numbers are getting bigger and bigger when – for companies it’s been added for so long if anything you start to – one would start to worry that it gets tougher to find savings not easier? Thanks.
That’s a great question Lauren.
And I think that’s probably a traditional way of thinking about it and we have actually tried to turn that around and really look for all the opportunities or areas we would have and we have still have big gaps within our best performing operations and our weakest performing operations.
And that’s goal that we can go turn in the value.
We are doing a lot to build capability for around lean continuous improvement across the company.
We are doing a much better job of benchmarking and understanding what the drivers are of performance at our best performing units and then transferring those best practices at a faster pace.
We talked about global procurement.
We are just getting better purchasing capability in market and leveraging the scale of Kimberly-Clark better across the organization.
We are doing better in design for values that we are putting the components in the product that the consumer cares about and that drives the performance but those ones that don’t move the needle there is a way to substitute or use less.
So we are getting better at that.
And I think the vision that our operators have now is much bigger than it ever was.
They have a got a robust pipeline of areas to go look and they are even more confident that we can bring that value to the bottom line.
And that’s exciting for us and we also look at other companies out there like Colgate who has been a phenomenal company at this and they are a smaller company than we are.
And I think they are delivering $400 million on a smaller cost base than we are.
And so while we had ourselves in the back for getting the $300 million we also know that there is other better benchmarks out there and we shouldn’t be satisfied and that’s the healthy way for us to approach it.
That’s great.
Thank you.
And then also the commentary on increasing advertising spending next year granted we would all prefer to see advertising go up than down but I think that was interesting that that was I mean you specifically mentioned in the release even when this year with advertising dollars flatter I guess it was down as a percentage of sales your sales were so strong.
So why the decision to put more money back in? Do you think you really get an incremental lift? Is it just a rising competitive environment or was it a – we have pretty good visibility on cost savings and like what else should we do with the money?  No really – it really is more built up from the business unit innovation plans and in terms of looking at what they need to spend.
Also looking at that outlook for competitive activity.
So we talked a little bit about we know we got Unicharm coming in Brazil so we have got additional investment there.
We’re launching fem care in China so we have got additional investment there and so we really do look at it more strategically around what are our innovation plans what are our competitive activity that’s planned and build the plan that way.
I would say this year we got a little bit more cost savings in the marketing area than we have got in the past.
So we did we turned our purchasing team loose on media buying and we have freed up a lot more money than we had in the plan and that helped our overall cost savings number but it actually instead of showing up in cost of sales and gross margin it showed some of it showed up in the strategic A&amp;P line and so that helped us basically give more coverage for the same dollars this year.
And then just finally following up the fem care launch in China.
How many cities were you targeting initially? Is the strategic there to do as you have done with diapers like come in at the super premium and then move down market? If you can just tell us a little bit more that would be great.
Yeah we have been in China in fem care for a long long time.
It's really a relaunch we have had some different brands that we got with acquisition and so it's really relaunching around the kind of the U by Kotex portfolio aimed at more up market young at least that we call her and so it was really a major relaunch in the fourth quarter and yes it will be very similar to diapers where we start in a smaller geographic region that we can support build momentum and then begin to roll it across the markets.
Obviously we’re having the success we have had in diapers you create great credibility for our sales team on the street as they come in with a new item in China.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Couple of short term ones and then a longer term one.
In December P&amp;G called up that their business had strengthened across categories and across geographies in December relative to October November did you see that?  Yeah I mean I probably would say we saw that in some markets.
Are you talking about in the U.S.
or anywhere else particularly?  I thought assuming it was a global comment.
Yeah I don’t I was listening to their call this morning.
I was getting ready for this one.
I will read their transcript a little later but I looked in our categories our organic was probably a bit stronger than theirs but again I probably would tell I didn’t dive into their numbers as deeply yet as you may have.
I would say Caroline that our December we typically finished the year strong.
I would say this year was similar.
Okay.
And then if you could just tell us a little bit about why Mexico was weak? I didn’t get a chance to listen to the generally the Mexico call yet.
There was a lot of competitive price investment in Mexico in the fourth quarter including by us and it did not move incremental volume as much as hoped for and so that led to basically I think sales were down 7% in the quarter 6% organic something like that.
Most of that was price loss and so that was a tougher comparison.
Overall Mexico had a pretty good year but they had a weaker finish to the year and they will probably have a tough start in the first quarter but as I said Mark and I were just down they have got an aggressive plan for 2014 and that’s been a high performing team and a great operation for several years and I’m sure they will get it sorted.
All right and then moving to China if you’ve the fem care launch and yet your volume growth slowed to about 20% in the quarter.
You have been I don’t know maybe that was just the diaper growth slowed to 20% in the quarter but do you think the base is such now that we should be looking more at low double digit growth going forward? I mean do you sense the competition really coming at you more aggressively in the Mummy [ph] stores and online where you used to have some big wins.
The question on diaper growth my comments for about growth in the quarter so we averaged 35% for the year.
We have been in the 40s for the first three quarters.
We were at 22 in the fourth quarter and so fem care was in launch for part of the fourth quarter.
So I think we had a double-digit growth in fem care but it was lower than that number.
And we would expect that to kind of build in the first quarter.
It’s a little smaller business than the diaper business.
So it won’t have as big of an impact.
China overall is a competitive market it’s been a competitive market for a long time.
And so there is a lot of every CPG in the world is over there trying to build with our brand for the future.
And so we feel like we are holding our own and we are definitely in the game but we know Unicharm and Procter and Kao and Hengan and SCA and everybody else wants to play over there.
So we have got to deliver good innovation and good value to the consumer to make – to be able to win there long-term.
Thank you.
And then just follow-on from that is really if you were to try to size up the 2020 opportunity of China Brazil Russia if you think about the upside from per cap consumption growth and/or wealth creation or how do you look at it? Which do you think will be the best growth market through 2020 for you?  China.
We are already more developed in Brazil and we have consumers probably a bit more developed support a middle class but there is so much opportunity in China just because of population that I would say of those three choices that China will be the biggest growth driver.
I would expect the others to also be significant growers but if you would force me to pick one I would say China is going to be the biggest business of the three by 2020.
Right.
And it seems to me that some of the increased competition will help drive usage because that the usage is still quite low in China right?  Yes absolutely.
I mean one of the – you never like to have more competition I guess but it does to help penetrate categories if you got a lot of people making noise about the product.
Right thank you very much.
Thanks Caroline.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi Chip.
Good morning.
Can you hear me?  Yes I can hear you now.
Great terrific.
Thank you.
The first question is just if you could update us with the moving parts with the tissue moves in Europe where do you stand in terms of your sort of pulp purchases if you could split it in the three buckets the hardwood which I assume is almost all eucalyptus and then softwood for tissue and fluff?  In Europe we are not buying a ton of fluff.
We are buying a little bit because we still are making some pant type products.
So the biggest grade by far that we buy in Europe would be eucalyptus for the consumer tissue business.
And I am sorry Tom I was looking more for the global overall given that change over the year what is your overall purchases as a company?  Yes Paul can give you the details.
Sure.
We still consume about 2.4 million metric tons of virgin fiber about half would be eucalyptus/hardwood and the other half would be split pretty evenly between fluff pulp and northern softwood.
Got you got you.
Okay thank you.
And Tom looking I know you have – a couple of questions have been asked but I just was noticing last year on the FORCE savings I think you guys were looking for 250 to 300 and on my numbers you were like 320 so I mean you have beaten your midpoint by almost $50 million and I don’t know if there is – if there are one or two specific areas you can point to and then will those areas be different in 2014 where you expect to get the bulk of your savings?  Yes I mean if you are adding in some of the tissue restructuring settings just you might have gotten up to a number that high but we try to break those out separately and not that will come in but the three buckets that we focus on are negotiated material or negotiated purchases savings or procurement group productivity so how do we drive lean and lower ways higher uptime and so all of our operations have clear metrics on those.
And then material specification changes so how do we do a better job of designing for value and all three of those buckets contributed pretty evenly.
I mean I think negotiated material savings was probably $90 million of the $300 million and change and so and the other two were over $100 million each and so we would expect those to continue to be strong in 2014.
Got you.
And then I guess the last question is on when you look at the – your forecast for ‘14 and some of the components it looks like at least on the numbers we saw a couple of weeks ago that your expectation for eucalyptus in the U.S.
is about $50 a ton less than where it was at least it is this month and so that’s pretty healthy decline.
Are you looking for similar declines in a similar decline in either fluff and/or softwood?  Northern Softwood we’re basically using the risky forecast so I think we’re in the 9.50 to 9.75 range and it should be not as big of a drop as EUC [ph] and that’s driven by more the capacity the capacity that’s expected to come from a EUC [ph] standpoint but I think fluff would be similar to Northern Softwood but that grade isn't going to be as affected by capacity additions.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I was just wondering when you might have the spin-off financials ready.
I think you talked about that on the last call and secondly what was the order of magnitude impact on EPS from your Venezuela assumptions? Thanks.
In the spin financials we will probably file the Form 10 Mark in early April I think is that the plan? On Venezuela we essentially it's similar to our guidance last year we gave a cut from what we earned this year.
I don’t know Mark if you’ve got rough ball park? It's probably about a point of earnings growth adjusted in a ball park.
That’s in the ball park in that overall term.
At this time we have no other further questioners in the conference.
Great.
Well we appreciate everybody’s questions today and we will wrap up with a quick comment from Tom.
So once again we appreciate your support to Kimberly-Clark.
We got good momentum in 2013 and we look forward to another year of executing our business in 2014.
Thank you again for spending some time with us this morning.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and have a wonderful morning.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you'd like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's first quarter earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell VP and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call this morning.
Mark will begin with a review of our first quarter results and he'll also give an update on the health care spin-off.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the full year outlook.
We'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our website.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our last Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both excludes certain items described in this morning's news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 4% and delivered $80 million of cost savings in the first quarter.
Second we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
We're on track with our capital spending plans to grow our business and we returned three-quarters of $1 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share repurchases.
And third we're making good progress with health care spin-off activities.
Now let's go to the detail of our results.
First quarter sales were $5.3 billion.
That's down 1% versus last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 4% led by strong growth in K-C International.
Currency rates were a 3-point drag and restructuring activities reduced sales by a further 2%.
First quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.7% up 10 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating profit was even with year ago with an operating margin of 16.2% that’s up 20 basis points compared to the prior year.
Results benefited from organic sales growth $70 million of FORCE cost savings and $10 million of additional savings from pulp and tissue restructuring actions.
In addition total between-the-line spending was down 90 basis points as a percent of sales.
That's mostly due to lower G&amp;A spending including incentive compensation.
We absorbed $65 million of cost inflation and significant currency headwinds in the quarter.
The total earnings drag from currency including translation and transaction effects and losses in other income and expense was approximately $0.15 per share.
And while the adjusted effective tax rate was down slightly compared to last year that was offset by lower equity income.
Putting it all together first quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.48.
That's even with our all-time record performance last year.
Now turning to cash flow cash provided by operations in the first quarter was $437 million.
That's down compared to $607 million last year mostly due to higher pension contributions and working capital.
Given our normal pace of cash generation and with most of our pension contributions for the year now behind us going forward I expect cash provided by operations to pick up significantly from first quarter levels.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks first quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled $750 million.
And as you know on February we announced our 42nd consecutive annual increase in the dividend.
In terms of share repurchases we bought back $465 million of KMB stock in the first quarter and we continue to expect full year buybacks of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.
Now before we move into our segment results let me give you a brief update on Venezuela.
We measure our results in Venezuela at the rate at which we transact our business in the country.
Since March of last year that's been at the official exchange rate of VEF6.3 per US dollar.
To date we've not had access to US dollars through either the complementary currency exchange system known as SICAD or the recently announced SICAD II auction process.
At this time it's not clear if we'll be able to access either of those systems going forward or what amount of currency exchange will transact through those mechanisms in the market as a whole.
So as a result we continue to measure our operations in Venezuela at a 6.3 rate.
Now in terms of bottomline earnings although it wasn't the case in the first quarter our full year plan continues to assume that we'll have some year-on-year earnings decline from results in Venezuela as a result of the ongoing uncertainty in that country.
Like all multinationals that do business in Venezuela we continue to closely monitor the currency market and the overall business environment there.
Now I'll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 7%.
Performance was led by K-C International with organic sales up 13%.
First quarter Personal Care operating margins were 19.2% up 80 basis points year-on-year led by gains in K-C International and Europe.
Moving to Consumer Tissue; organic sales were up 3% driven by higher net selling prices and slightly favorable mix.
Consumer Tissue operating margins of 15.2% were healthy and were up 10 basis points year-on-year.
Turning to K-C Professional; organic sales increased 4% with volumes and net selling prices each up 2 points.
Organic sales improved 16% in K-C International but were off 2% in North America.
KCP margins were solid at 17% although down versus year ago including the impacts from a slow start to the year on the topline in North America.
Lastly Health Care organic sales rose 1% driven by higher volumes in medical devices.
Health Care operating margins of 18.1% were up significantly versus soft performance last year.
Although I don't expect full year margins to be at the first quarter levels I am really encouraged by the team's focus and execution while we work on preparing for the spin-off.
Now speaking of the health care spin-off let me give you a little update on our progress.
Detailed Separation planning and preparation to carve-out financial statements are well underway and broadly on track.
We'll be seeking Board approval to file the spin Form 10 registration statement with the SEC in early May.
Robert Abernathy who will lead the new company has assembled his senior leadership team including naming a Chief Operating Officer and his Chief Financial Officer.
We're continue to assess the impact of the spin-off on the remainder of Kimberly-Clark's operations and as you'd expect that includes analyzing potential actions to streamline our work and mitigate stranded costs.
While this work continues to be in progress we expect to incur some restructuring charges in order to mitigate our stranded costs.
We'll provide more specifics in connection with our second quarter earnings communication in July.
And finally we expect the spin-off to be completed at the end of the third quarter or potentially in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth and cost savings.
Our capital allocations plans are on track and we're making good progress toward the spin-off of our health care business.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll show my perspectives on our first quarter results and then I'll address our full year outlook.
So starting with Q1 overall we had a solid quarter solid start to the year particularly given the headwinds we faced and the difficult earnings comparison with Q1 last year being our strongest quarter.
Organic sales growth in the quarter was 4% that’s right in line with our 3% to 5% full year target.
At our targeted growth initiatives K-C International had another strong quarter with 12% organic sales growth.
In diapers our organic sales increased about 30% in China 25% in Russia and 15% in Brazil in the first quarter.
So our Huggies business has good momentum in these three markets and broadly throughout Kimberly-Clark International and we've got more innovation coming yet this year to help us drive additional growth.
We're also doing well in our other Personal Care businesses in K-C International.
That includes feminine care which our organic sales there grew double-digits.
Our adult care business was up high-single digits; and our baby wipes business which was up mid-single digits.
So our focus on premium innovation and developing these categories continued to generate great results in these businesses and markets around the world.
Elsewhere in K-C International our KCP organic sales were up in the mid-teens rate with strong growth in Latin America and solid progress in KCP in Asia.
So on an annual basis now the K-C Professional portion of our K-C International business is $1 billion for us and with attractive margins.
So we're continuing to push hard to take advantage of opportunities where industrialization and economic development are occurring.
So overall we're executing well on K-C International and we're very optimistic about our top and bottomline growth prospects in that part of the business.
In terms of topline growth in other parts of our business we're broadly on track except for K-C Professional in North America.
There we're off to a slow start in the year.
There were some impacts from the severe weather that we had in the US in January and February and conditions in that business have improved more recently and we're expecting better performance as we roll forward into the year.
On the innovation front we're off to a good start for the year.
In K-C International we continue to launch innovations across our product lineup.
We got a heavy focus on Huggies diapers and diaper-pants premium feminine care products and adult care offerings coming to market this year.
In North America we've launched innovations on Huggies diapers Depend briefs and Viva towels.
We've got more near-term activity happening including improvements to Huggies diapers and baby wipes new Poise microliners and upgrades to our U by Kotex product lineup.
Our brand positions in North America remain solid overall.
Our first quarter market shares are up even with year-ago levels in six of the eight US consumer categories that we track.
In terms of the bottomline as Mark mentioned we had headwinds from currency exchange rates and cost inflation.
To offset these challenges we raised selling prices where we can.
We're driving our cost savings programs and we're controlling our overhead spending carefully.
And finally as Mark already highlighted we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways and that's a key part of our global business plan.
So overall we're executing well in a challenging environment.
So now as we move to the outlook for 2014 we continue to be optimistic about our prospects to drive profitable and healthy growth and that means we're focused on delivering solid organic sales growth increasing our advertising and research and development spending and generating healthy levels of cost savings and cash flow and then allocating that capital that we generate in the business in shareholder-friendly ways.
In terms of our financial objectives we're confirming our previous outlook for 2014 top and bottomline growth.
On the topline our organic sales growth target remains 3% to 5%.
We got solid topline momentum right now and that's driven by our targeted growth initiatives and our innovation and we expect that to continue going forward.
On the bottomline we continue to expect full year adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $6 to $6.20.
We're closely monitoring the external environment including currency markets commodity costs and the overall competitive and economic environment.
As I'm sure most of you know currency markets in particular have been more volatile since the beginning of the year most notably in Latin America Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
So going forward we're planning for currency raise to be broadly similar to spot rates that we've seen in the marketplace recently.
And in terms of input cost inflation at this point in time it's more likely that our full year input cost would be in the upper half of our previously estimated range of $150 million to $250 million.
And that's mostly due to additional inflation in some international markets particularly in Latin America.
So regardless of the environment we're staying focused on our strategies and our plans to improve our business.
We're convinced that successful execution of our global business plan will continue to result in strong returns for our shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks.
And now we'll be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hey just a few questions some short term some longer term.
More on kind of short and medium term it looks like your net price of only 1% is lower than currency.
Obviously it's lower than what we'd expect inflation to be globally and we've seen this for a lot of HPC categories.
Can you give us a sense of whether that's just a timing issue or do you believe some of your categories are kind of secularly deflationary here? And I guess is your pricing any different than your competition so are you closing or expanding price gaps? And then just that gap in terms of net price versus currency and what do you expect for inflation seems to be pretty big and not closing recently? Yeah I guess I’d say Ali if you look across our segments I mean the only one that had negative price in the quarter was Health Care and that's probably one that is a carryover of adjusting some of the exam glove prices related to the fall-off of synthetic nitrile.
So as the commodity cost in that particular area has dropped we've seen more price drop there.
Across the balance I would say we've done a pretty good job in K-C International of getting price to wherever there's been major currency weakness particularly in Latin America.
In North America broadly there has been relatively little price.
We've gotten a little bit in tissue through some de-sheeting and you saw that in the quarter.
We've got a little bit in diapers.
Again there we got some of the count reduction.
It's just starting to go into effect.
We didn't get much of that in the first quarter so you'll get a little bit more in the second quarter.
And I think broadly our strategy is to try to line up where we can and be competitive in the marketplace and then win on innovation and that's a strategy that's worked pretty well for us over the long term.
But it doesn't sound like you see the gap between even just currencies in your overall net price closing any time soon.
Well if you look at the amount of price that we got it was roughly equal to the amount of cost inflation that we had in the quarter.
I think it was what Paul $60 million-ish of price and about $65 million of cost inflation.
So if you just looked at those two numbers obviously currency was a factor as well and there was a lot of other moving parts but those two more or less lined up.
So two other kind of broader questions.
One is if you just look at your representation online versus offline in both diapers and Consumer Tissue in North America at least it looks not to be the same between online and offline representation for you guys and I was just trying to get a sense of how you guys think of that channel whether you plan to close that gap and what it's going to take to do so so one is an online question.
And then the other one I might as well throw it in here is just over the years and decades really you guys have as a company focused more and more on pruning some pieces of the business Heath Care most recently but Western Europe before that go back to Neenah as far back as you want I mean just along the timeframe that's been happening do you see ever a time where you were a separate Personal Care and Consumer Tissue business just given the different trajectory those two businesses are on? I guess on the first question on the online versus offline in diapers versus tissue I'd say the Personal Care stuff is probably a little bit more efficient to ship on an online environment.
It's not to say that you won't see it in the offline or having tissue move into online as well but I do think Personal Care diapers in particular is a bigger item.
And I think many of the online retailers want diapers for a lot of the same reasons that other retailers are focused on that category because they want to get the young family as a regular customer.
So I remember not that many years ago when Toys"R"Us was our largest diaper customer because they were trying to capture the young family at that point.
So I guess I would say I don't expect that gap to close.
I would expect diapers and Personal Care will probably be bigger online but we'll see if we're out by everything online then maybe that gap will eventually close.
On the portfolio shaping question we've been around for 140 years and our first product was newsprint.
And so thankfully it's people who have been shaping our portfolio for a long long time.
So at this point I don't see a path to what you described that you break them apart.
There's a lot of efficiency in going to market together.
Tissue is a strong cash generator but there are some markets in the world where we don't have a big tissue presence.
Today our business in China is predominantly Personal Care although we've got a rapidly growing KCP business in China which is again tissue related in many areas.
So again we think we're doing all the right things to shape the portfolio.
We'll continue to challenge and test that and we're not afraid to make calls that we think are shareholder-friendly over the long term.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Could you just talk about some of the SG&amp;A leverage kind of why maybe some of the incentive compensation I don't know if it got reversed or was always based on plan and then what the advertising spending did in the quarter and if the outlook for the year is still to grow it faster than the sales? Yeah I think on the incentive comp last year's first quarter was a little high.
And so it's partly removing the accruals around for the three-year restricted shares and as you start to have your performance level and plans tick up so we topped it up a bit last year in the first quarter.
This year with some of the weakness in currency it got reduced a little bit.
So the net swing was probably a good chunk of the swing on the G&amp;A front but nothing fundamentally changing on the plans beyond that.
And then on the advertising we're basically down 10 basis points from last year but up nicely sequentially.
And so we'd say last year's first quarter was the highest quarter of the year and so we were well above the other three quarters in the first quarter.
We've also got a little bit more back-end loaded innovation.
So we feel pretty good about the level of spend in advertising.
I think research spending was up 10 basis points in the quarter so we continue to invest in R&amp;D and product development.
So the same the guidance still prevails for advertising spending and growing faster than sales for the year? Yeah.
Is it too earlier to ask you questions about the structure of the health care spend? I mean when will we get sort of the sense for how it's going to impact earnings what kind of leverage are you going to put on the spend dividend back to you guys to buy back stock? Is that still premature? Can you guys give us a little bit of a hint? Yeah I think it's probably a little early.
We'll give you more color on the second quarter.
The Form 10 comes out you get a good look at the historical financials of the thing.
And so you'll have a chance to do that.
And we'll have more detail on what the impact is going to be.
Mark mentioned some restructuring activity what stranded cost that we have that we're going to get rid of.
So we're actively working on all that stuff and we'll have more to talk about that in the second quarter call.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Can you talk a little bit in detail what you're seeing in terms of the dynamics in the tissue market? I guess last quarter you talked about the GT kind of regaining their strides.
There's maybe a little bit of messiness to some of the private label.
So you're any more or less concerned with the capacity that's come on over the last year? And then looking forward we've had a couple of announcements of new supply coming on over the next couple of years.
Do you think the market will be able to support that? Yeah I would say I feel pretty good about the capacity balance in North American tissue.
At this point if I look at the volume weakness that we had in North America in the first quarter it was more to do with weak cold and flu season and some shortfall in facial tissue.
Our continental business has done a little bit but we had a very strong first quarter last year because of some of the challenges that GP had had.
And so at this point we feel pretty good about our innovation strategy.
We launched Viva Vantage which is a new paper towel and that's off to a good start in the quarter.
And so I think we've got a pretty big innovation portfolio.
We're working across all those brands.
And I'd expect to continue to drive those businesses.
Growth rates they're not going to be as high as the adult care business in North America but we still think there is opportunity for innovation and mix accretion there.
And just kind of taking maybe a bigger macro view you mentioned some of the weather weakness in K-C Professional looking through that how confident are you on the underlying I guess in North America and the underlying macro environment and demand environment? Gail I hate blaming weather for anything because you'd like to think that our products are more essential.
So I was really picking on our K-C Professional team when they were trying to explain this to me with weather.
People who have didn't come to work didn't use hand towels.
People are more able to get to the welding job site didn't use our safety products.
And so we really lost hours of work in the first quarter.
That was a significant hit.
When you talk to our distributor customers they would say they're seeing in their numbers in the first quarter and most of those guys are not public reporters.
So you may be not as able to see it as easily.
And they saw the March volumes picked up and they're feeling like back to more of the underlying rate of growth in the economy.
So we'll see.
But we've got a pretty aggressive plan baked in to try and get as much of that back in the last nine months as we can.
But some of those hours lost due to weather aren't going to be recovered.
And then just lastly on the European restructuring when do we comp than most of the change and when would we start to see more of a steady state [ph] comp? Really I think April was about the end of the sales cut off when we exited most of the markets.
So it should be pretty well flushing through the sales decline in the second quarter numbers.
Paul that makes sense? Yeah I think you should expect that the second quarter will look pretty similar to the first quarter.
We had about 2 points of lower sales on restructuring activities.
That's likely to be about right in the second quarter and then it should basically go away.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citigroup.
My question had to with the fem care business.
The tampon market shares that we're seeing in North America look terrific but the pad market shares are not as strong.
And I'm just wondering what you think that is? Are you literally searching Kotex consumers from one product to the next or is it something that you need more innovation or different pricing in the pad market because shares have been down there fairly steadily for a while? Yeah if you look at our fem care share we have been launching a lot of innovation on tampons and have got some of really unique and terrific products that are out there and doing well in the marketplace.
On the pad side we've probably lost share on our Kotex Natural Balance and have not gained at all back on U by Kotex.
And so we do have some innovation coming on the pad business.
And the encourage thing is a lot of that innovation is already launching in other markets outside the US.
And I mentioned in my remarks that we're actually seeing double-digit growth in fem care outside the US which is well faster than the category growing in those markets.
So we're encouraged and we expect to see some better trajectory in the US later this year.
And can you remind which is a stronger gross margin business just in the US specifically tampons versus pads for you? Pads is historically a stronger gross margin business for us but we're also doing some work on our cost structure to get our tampon business more efficient going forward.
And so we're hoping to close some of that gap.
And then my second question is just on the international statistics that you give us China Russia and Brazil the volume growth in diapers.
They're just so volatile quarter-to-quarter and they're all strong and are all great and sometimes they accelerate and sometimes they decelerate.
But they're just so lumpy.
It's hard to tell oh gosh Brazil was like it slowed sequentially a lot despite any easy comp.
Can you explain why those numbers are so lumpy? Is it that your market share slumps around or is it just the supply chain issue because just month-to-month or quarter-to-quarter it seems really hard to predict? Yeah I would say part of it has to do with cycle of innovation.
So if you looked at China we've been growing at 40 and now I think in the first quarter we were at 30.
We were at 70-ish cities and now we got 90 by the end of last year.
We went from 90 to 95 in the first quarter.
So the rate of new city expansion is probably slowing a little bit which is why those numbers are coming down.
In Russia we launched a number of diaper pant codes last year in a boy/girl format that's really taking off.
And so that market ramped up from kind of high single-digits to mid-20s.
And so that's probably the face of it there.
In Brazil we also have launched diaper pants and are expanding it into the Northeast part of the country.
We've been represented there but it's really we're putting more feet on the ground and more capability there.
And so each market has got its own story as to what's going on.
But mostly it's broader distribution and timing of when innovation gets launched that can drive it from quarter-to-quarter.
But in each of those markets you wouldn't say that either the pricing dynamic has changed? I mean we read a lot about lower price competition coming into China but it seems like your volume growth is still strong in each of those markets broadly speaking.
I mean there's a lot of competition everywhere.
So in China in particular Proctor Unicharm Kao are all over the mid and premium tiers.
Hang On is all over the lower part of the marketplace.
And so we feel like we have a winning product everyday to be able to compete and are really focused on that.
Brazil P&amp;G is a big competitor in Brazil and Unicharm is just building a plant to launch there later this year.
And so we're really trying to make sure we're driving as much innovation into the market and be prepared for that and have a very strong position in the marketplace before competition comes.
In Russia we've run into P&amp;G as well as some other local competitors.
So yeah there is no shortage of people that want to launch everyday.
The next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
So just back to pricing on FX just curious do you expect there to be more FX related pricing or you're taking about as much as you're comfortable with give where the stock price are today? I think that at this point we feel like we've done a pretty good job of getting price into the marketplace but there's also been quite a bit of volatility.
If FX markets continue to move in particular markets we won't be shy about taking additional price.
And again some of it was taken during the quarter so may not have been fully reflected in the quarter.
So you could have some rollout effect later in the year.
But broadly we've been pretty aggressive about trying to take prices as these exchange markets have moved.
So it sounds like based on I guess it seems very recently a little bit more of a recovery in currencies you've priced all that you've done it based on the recent movement in price maybe haven't sort of annualized all of that not annualized but you haven't seen a lot come through yet.
So it's possible next quarter has a little bit better pricing line than this quarter.
Is that basically right? Yeah that's probably right.
(inaudible) is calling like basically $80 and $90 per ton pulp decrease sort of by the middle of '14.
It seems like both on eucalyptus and BSK.
Is that in your numbers because that way you expect to happen as well as that part of your commodity guidance? So if you look at northern softwood which we are calling our outlook as around $1 000 a ton give or take.
The March price is $1 030.
Eucalyptus we're calling that for more $800 to $830 and the March price was $870.
So on average for the year we're probably not quite as aggressive.
It depends on when you assume the (inaudible) thing happens.
If you average that for the year we're probably more in line.
And then just one last one on Venezuela.
I guess that you haven't had any transactions on SICAD or SICAD II.
But I'm trying to understand the rationale for staying with the less conservative 6.3 rate.
Do you guys think that on a sustainable basis 6.3 is where you will transaction and get the proponents or the majority of whatever cash you are able to get out in the market? Or do you actually believe that you will at some point see the evaluation you just don't know what are these yet so you're not going to take it? I don't think I can remember in my entire career a situation like this in a significant currency market where you've got a range from 6 at the rate to if you look at SICAD II it's trading at 50.
And so I do think that something is going to happen to close that gap at some point because it's not sustainable to have that kind of a spread in a marketplace.
And so I'm looking at this from two perspectives what do we need to do operate in Venezuela so how do we set pricing how do we import product how do we pay the bills and manage our exposure level.
So that's one set of activities.
Today we're getting all the funds related to import at least in the first quarter at the (inaudible) rate.
And we're not eligible even applied for the SICAD I rates.
And so as SICAD II just started to trade very little funds have flowed through that and it's unclear whether anybody has gotten any money out of the country using that mechanism.
So we're going to continue to watch this.
I would guess at some point something is probably going to happen to narrow that gap.
And in the meantime we feel like we've given enough transparency.
We'll also be filing our 10-Q today.
It's the first time we filed the Q on the same day of the earnings call with a little bit more disclosure.
So everyone will be able to see what our balance sheet exposure is.
We've given enough information about how big it is in the income statements about investors that want to apply different rate to those have got the ability to do that.
And you're just following up to that? I mean it looks like Procter and Colgate basically generally it seems like for every 1 point of exposure on the topline it's been like 1 point bottomline ongoing exposure to the P&amp;L.
So you guys are about 2%.
That would sort of make it look like an annualized 2% hit if you were at the 11.8 or whatever it is today.
Does that make sense? It really depends on pricing.
So I mean that's the other dimension here is that the price control of economy.
And so you can make any exchange rate work if you get pricing really.
And so it's a question of what way are you going to get funds and each of those individual exchange rates can you price for them in the business where there's enough margin to make sense to operate.
So that's why you come back and say if we're running all the different scenarios if we could only get money at this rate what price level we have to achieve to have an operation that makes sense.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
First on SG&amp;A it sounded like in a response to a previous question that a lot of the decline year-over-year for this quarter has to do with timing of when incentive compensation hits the P&amp;L.
So first is the big decline in SG&amp;A margin this quarter just a matter of timing because it seems like Health Care was clearly a major driver.
It seems like margins for both Personal Care and Consumer Tissue were also up.
So maybe you can give a little bit detail on what is sustainably lower in SG&amp;A that's in the card for 2014? Yeah it's probably more that last year's first quarter was a little high.
If you're going to go look back it was one kind of a high watermark I think in recent quarter as a percent of sales.
And so this quarter is a little bit lower than average.
And part of that was related to incentive comp was probably the biggest swing.
And it was more about every quarter we're looking at our three-year forecast.
We got the restricted shares that vest on three-year improvement in sales and ROIC and looking at what our plan looks like and making adjustments up or down.
Last year's first quarter was a little higher.
Increase in expense this year's first quarter was a small decrease in expense and that swing drove a good share of the difference.
Do you expect for Q2 through Q4 the rest of the year still expect SG&amp;A to be down year-over-year? Yeah we would say that this year should be flat to down slightly for SG&amp;A is a good planning assumption.
And then on the topline clearly 4%-plus organic is very solid but you adjusted the midpoint on your range of 3% to 5% and the organic sales comps do get tougher as the year progresses.
You mentioned some innovation.
Can you talk about the cadence of innovation as the year progresses? Yeah we've got a pretty full calendar around the world of diaper and fem care adult incontinence improvements coming to market.
So you'll hear more about things happening on that front.
It's probably a little back-end loaded this year relative to maybe where it's been in the past but still should see a solid progress on that front.
And we feel we've got pretty good momentum happening in the business right now.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I was wondering if you'd noticed any change in the rate of sales in Russia and Ukraine.
It seems some companies report strong sales in January and February but decline in March because of the unrest.
So could you just give us some indication of the tempo of your business? We really didn't see a big impact on the business.
Obviously it's part of the world we're watching very closely and trying to make sure our people were safe and that our supply chains were secure.
And we really didn't have any product supply problems.
With some of the currency swing in Russia we were able to get a little bit of price on Personal Care as it reflected some of the import portion of the materials.
And I think Ukraine is a relatively small business for us but didn't have any significant disruption there that was obvious in the numbers anyway.
So no it was a pretty solid quarter for that part of the world.
Okay.
And that continues into April? No bad news so far Connie anyway.
And as the Q is coming out today could you just tell us if you quantified the impact of a move to SICAD II and what that is? We just put the dollar exposure on the balance sheet in the Q and then you can apply whatever rate to it that you'd like.
As a reminder in 2013 Venezuela was about 2% of our total consolidated sales and about 3% of adjusted operating profit.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
I would like to come back to the competition pricing environment.
In the US track data shows share losses related to Procter.
So what happened after you did the change in diaper count.
If you were losing share when you had more diapers per pack do you think that what would be the impact of effectively increasing prices in the US if you're losing share to Procter right now? And that would be question one.
And question two you referred to Mexico last conference call and the income was down way beyond what the peso would suggest.
So would assume the pricing environment in Mexico continues to be aggressive.
So if you can give us an update on Mexico as well.
On the diaper question in the US and so basically if you look year-on-year in the quarter we're probably down a couple of share points on Huggies.
Most of that is lost to Luvs.
So Pampers has basically been about flat.
And so sequentially our diaper shares are actually up just a tick but relatively flat in this environment.
And so as we look at the price change roll into the marketplace we fully realize it on the super-premium part of the lineup that competes most with Pampers and we're only taking a part of the increase on the main line to try to narrow the gap with Luvs because Luvs did fully participate in the price count change that went into effect in the fourth quarter.
So we're hoping we can actually narrow the price gap a bit with Luvs on the main line business and line up on the premium business.
On the Mexico question K-C Mexico is going to announce earnings later this week.
And so I'll let them give you a little bit more color on their call.
I guess I would say broadly economic conditions in Mexico continue to be challenging with less growth overall in the economy than forecasted.
And they had a fairly challenging fourth quarter.
And I'd say some of the same challenges that they had in the fourth quarter seem to continue into the first quarter.
But the team down there is committed to continue to improve their business and they've got a solid track record and they'll deliver improved results in the back half for the year.
One more thing would be Venezuela situation.
It seems like you flag it as a driver of topline growth this quarter.
Could you tell us why was it up? It is like Wendy said it has to do with the volatility of the year ago if you can tell us what was the organic volume growth or sales growth in Venezuela.
I imagine that you don't have any pricing.
And if it is significant why was it up so much if you can explain that? It's pretty simple Javier.
If we get letters of credit to bring product and we bring it in and sell it in the marketplace.
If we don't we don't.
And so in the fourth quarter we got quite a few letters of credit.
We brought the product in in the first quarter and sold it through in the marketplace.
And it was probably more heavily oriented to bath tissue.
And so if you look at our international tissue growth in the Consumer Tissue category it was probably more driven by Venezuela this quarter than it would have been in the past.
If you look at the total K-C International topline it was probably a couple of points of extra boost to the K-C International topline in the quarter but that would be more the nature of it.
Would it be kind of a 30% 40% growth in Venezuela? I don't have the numbers in front of me.
We can give you more detail.
But it's a couple of percent of our sales.
And K-C International was 39% of our overall sales.
So you can kind of figure out.
You can get close enough to the math I would guess.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is you did call out a pretty significantly sized I guess charge tied to Middle East regulation and maybe I missed it.
But could you tell us what's going on there and is this truly one-time or is there something going on that could impact how we should look at the business there? Obviously it's one-time in the sense that we hope that doesn't happen again but it's also one of the things you're planning around the world that the governments can adopt unusual tax positions that you didn't expect.
And I'll have Mark give you a little bit more color.
But essentially we put capital into a market and the government decided to apply a value-added tax to that capital contribution.
We obviously disagreed but we lost the court case.
So we booked a non-recurring charge.
I know this dances around quite a bit but anything else you can tell us about the other income expense line.
As I look at it sort of the recurring component of that it was about $18 million.
Was there anything that you would call out that would have explained that being so high this quarter? Yeah it was all currency transactional losses and probably heavily oriented to the Ukraine and I think there was the other market Argentina.
So wherever you saw big currency ships and we had a dollar-based payable you wind up taking a hit on the transactional currency line.
You can't hedge some of these markets effectively.
And so that flows through other income and expense.
I know we're going to get more data or detail on the Health Care and I know it was probably down a bit last year but certainly was a great swing year-over-year.
Do you think you'll see year-over-year profits go up every quarter this year? I know the third quarter is tougher comparison.
And I'm not trying to pin you down but sort of getting an idea of how sustainable this improvement is.
Well we're off to a good start no question.
They had some one-timers that went against them.
Last year in the first quarter they probably had a couple of things that broke their way this year's first quarter.
So I wouldn't necessary apply this margin rate to the full year.
They're probably a little ahead of expectation.
So I think the good news is is that while we're doing all this work to get ready for the spin the business is continuing to operate and execute in a very effective level and they had a solid first quarter overall top and bottomline.
And then lastly I know there is a corporate expense when you strip out the one-time items was down quite a bit.
And I was imagining maybe pension is helping you there.
But should we see that continue to be down year-over-year throughout the year on that line? It's probably not so much pension helping us Chip as the other incentive comp that we talked about earlier that was in there last year and that was high last year and down this year.
And so how should we think about the rest of the year? I guess it's a function of the stock and earnings.
I'd say broadly it'd probably fall the similar G&amp;A guidance but it's flat to down slightly.
At this time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right.
Thank you David.
We will wrap up with a comment from Tom.
So once again solid first quarter lots of things going on in the business.
And we appreciate your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thanks very much.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and thank you for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow up if you would like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's second quarter earnings conference call.
With us today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of our second quarter results and then give an update on the health care spin-off.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year and we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our website.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements this morning.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our last Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 5% led by 10% growth in KC International; second we increased adjusted earnings per share 6% driven by organic sales growth and cost savings and third we’re on track with our overall capital plan including working capital cash generation capital spending and returning cash to shareholders.
Now let’s cover the details of our results.
Second quarter sales were $5.3 billion up more than 1% versus last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 5% led by strong growth in KC International currency rates were at 2% drag and restructuring activities reduced sales by 1 point.
Second quarter adjusted gross margin was 34.8% that’s up 30 basis points year on year.
Adjusted operating profit was up 5% versus year ago with an operating margin of 16.1% it’s up 60 basis points compared to prior year.
Results benefited from organic sales growth $75 million of forced cost savings and $10 million of savings from pulp and tissue restructuring actions.
On the other hand we absorbed significant currency headwinds.
The total earnings drag including translation and transaction effects and losses was approximately $0.11 per share in the quarter.
We also absorbed $60 million of input cost inflation.
We now expect that full year inflation will be towards the high end of our previously estimated range of $150-250 million that takes into account additional inflation in some international markets in a somewhat tighter virgin fiber market.
To support our brands and innovations we increased advertizing spending by $15 million in the quarter that’s up 20 basis points as a percent of sales.
Now moving down to P&amp;L equity income fell 27% driven by softness at KC de Mexico KC de Mexico’s market positions remain strong and their primary markets of bathroom tissue and diapers they have market shares well into the 60s.
However given recent results and the challenging macroeconomic environment we now expect that our full year equity income will be down compared to last year and our original expectations for this year.
Putting it all together second quarter adjusted earnings per share were a $1.49 that’s up 6% year on year.
Now turning to cash flow cash provided by operations in the second quarter was $842 million that’s up 46% year on year mostly due to working capital improvements and lower pension contributions.
We continue to manage primary working capital very well our year to date cash conversion cycle is down two days compared to full year 2013 so we’re in great shape to meet or potentially exceed a one to two day improvement objective.
In terms of capital allocation second quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled nearly $800 million we repurchased $476 million of KMB stock in the quarter and we continue to expect full year share repurchases of $1.3 to $1.5 billion.
Now I’ll highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter in personal care organic sales rose 7% performance was led by KC International with organic sales up 13%.
Second quarter personal care operating margins were 18.6% that’s up 50 basis points year on year led by gains in KC International and Europe.
Moving to consumer tissue organic sales were up 3% consumer tissue operating margins of 14.7% were up a 120 basis points year on year driven by selling price increases and cost savings.
Turning to KC Professional organic sales increased 3% performance was led by 13% growth in KC International organic sales were off slightly in North America.
Our KCP margins were solid at 17.9% although they were down versus a very strong year ago performance.
And lastly healthcare organic sales were up slightly with healthcare operating margins of 15.9% were up nicely versus a soft result last year.
And I am really encouraged by the team’s execution as we prepare for the spin-off.
Now let me turn to the planned spin-off of our healthcare business which will become Halyard Health.
We are making good progress overall.
Our initial Form-10 registration statement was filed with the SEC in May and an amendment with first quarter financial information is filed in June.
Halyard senior management team is in place and selection of the Board of Directors is underway with a lead director and chair of the audit committee are renamed.
Separation planning is well underway and we're targeting to complete the transaction at the end of October.
We are continuing to assess the impact of the spin-off on our remaining K-C operations.
Stranded costs are estimated to be about 2% to 3% of our annual adjusted operating profit and in near term these costs will be partially offset by incremental share repurchases and transition services agreements which we'll have in place with Halyard.
As I mentioned in April we expect to incur some restructuring charges in order to fully mitigate the impact of stranded overhead and to improve our overall organizational efficiency.
Our work in this area is ongoing and we expect to share our plans in conjunction with our third quarter earnings communications in October.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieved solid organic sales growth.
We delivered healthy cost savings and bottom-line growth and we continue to allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will share my perspectives on our second quarter and then I will address our full year outlook.
So starting with Q2 we delivered another quarter of good performance overall.
Our organic sales growth in the quarter was 5% that’s at the high end of our 3% to 5% full year target.
As you think about targeted growth initiatives K-C International had another strong quarter with 10% organic sales growth and improved margins.
In diapers our organic sales increased approximately 30% in Russia and Eastern Europe 20% in China and 15% in Brazil.
Our Huggies business continues to generate excellent top-line growth in these markets and at the same time we're making good progress in improving the bottom-line.
We're also doing well in our other personal care businesses in K-C International.
Organic sales were up double-digits in both feminine care and adult care and mid-single digits in baby wipes.
Our focus on premium innovation and category development continues to generate good results in these businesses.
Elsewhere in K-C International KCP organic sales were at a low-teens rate that was led by growth in Latin America and solid progress in China.
We're continuing to push harder to further build this business where industrialization and economic development are occurring.
We've also implemented a number of selling price increases in K-C International in response to weaker currencies and cost inflation.
These have been executed well and in general have not impacted underlying demand.
So overall we have good momentum at K-C International and we remain very optimistic about our prospects there going forward.
In terms of top-line growth in North America volumes were on track are ahead of plan and our adult care business and baby wipes and in our feminine care business.
We're also largely on target in consumer tissue although we're responding to increased competitive promotion activity in the bathroom tissue category.
On the other hand volumes were below expectations in diapers and in our K-C Professional washroom business.
And our teams there are focused on improving performance by better leveraging our innovation marketing and selling capability.
Regarding innovation activities we are making good progress overall.
In K-C International our focus on innovation in diapers and diaper pants premium feminine care and adult care continues to deliver strong growth for us.
In North America I am encouraged that innovations are helping grow our brands like Poise Depend U by Kotex Viva and Huggies baby wipes.
Our brand positions are solid overall and reflect our innovation launches and increased advertising spending.
Our market shares in the U.S.
improved or even with year ago in six of eight consumer categories that we track and were growing faster than the category in a number of our markets in KCI.
In terms of bottom-line I am encouraged with our second quarter improvement in margins and earnings despite the headwinds that Mark mentioned some of that bottom-line improvement was due to benefits from the strategic changes we've made in Europe.
We've also just started to more formally bring together our European and Middle East and Africa teams into one organization to streamline decision making and improve efficiencies there.
While we got more work to do I am encouraged by our progress in Europe.
Finally as Mark has already highlighted we continue to operate our company with financial discipline by generating significant cost savings and cash flow and allocating capital in shareholder friendly ways.
So in summary we're executing our global business planned strategies well in a challenging environment and we are essentially on track with our overall plans for the first half of the year.
Now moving on to our outlook for the full year.
We continue to be optimistic about our prospects to drive profitable and healthy growth.
On the top-line we continue to target organic sales growth of 3% to 5%.
We got a good momentum in this area with 5% organic growth to the first half of the year.
While comparisons get more difficult in the back half of the year we expect to make further progress with our targeted growth initiatives and innovation programs.
On the bottom-line we expect to deliver full year adjusted earnings per share in a range of $6 to $6.15.
Compared to our previous guidance we've narrowed the range modestly by bringing down the top end by $0.05 a share.
This recognizes a slightly more difficult external environment including the outlook for commodities and business conditions for K-C to Mexico some of the consumer tissue promotion activity in North America and overall competitive activity in general.
Regardless of the environment we continue to be optimistic about our future.
We're staying focused on our strategies to protect and improve our brands and our business and we remain convinced that successful execution of our global business plan will continue to result in strong returns to our shareholders.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll begin to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Two questions first with regard to on the contemplated restructuring program are you expecting that to be bigger than just to address the stranded overhead cost associated with the spin or is that limited to specifically that transaction? And then second of all there has been a lot written and a lot of speculation about Proctor entering the adult incontinence market and I’m just wondering if there are anything you are doing in anticipation of that or on -- to better position yourself? Obviously you’ve got an incredible position already.
But is there anything you do differently now if that is coming down the pike? Thanks.
Good question.
Wendy on the first one the restructuring; we will give you more color on that in the third quarter call.
I mean at the minimum we are going to make sure we eliminate the stranded overhead and Mark gave you a guidance on the range of that as 2% to 3% of our operating profit.
At the same time we're asking our teams broadly to say are there other things that as we look at Kimberly-Clarke post healthcare spin that we could do to make ourselves even more efficient.
And so we’ll be evaluating those ideas over the next few months and give you more color on that in October.
On the Procter front we've been going hard to drive dependent employees pretty aggressively as you’ve probably seen over the last several years.
And I think having a great innovation portfolio behind those brands is the best defense for any kind of competitive activity.
And so we'll continue to drive innovation and try to drive the category growth and we think that will serve us well over the medium-term.
And then just two questions follow-up.
On the restructuring side are you contemplating any additional product line exit what you did with diapers in Western Europe or is it really just cost related? And then secondarily what’s your confidence in the pricing dynamic in adult diapers? I mean they are obviously very expensive product.
Do you feel like you've got a sufficient range of products? Is there a chance that Proctor comes in and undercuts you and there is negative pricing in the category? How do you think about that? Sure on the restructuring I would say it’s primarily going to be cost related.
I wouldn’t envision there is any product line exists going on there and so it really is more just looking at our talent where we got it and we have the right capability in the right places and other things we can do better from a shared service or centrally that we're taking a look at as a chance to look at your overhead structure when you have a transaction like the spin.
On the second question on the pricing dynamic we obviously haven’t seen full visibility of what Proctor is going to do.
And so we'll make sure we're competitive in the marketplace.
But behind a lot of the innovation that we brought -- we have brought DEPEND Real Fit for man and Silhouette for women to the market last year.
That’s probably our most income challenged consumer.
And because those products work so much better we picked up 9 to 10 share points behind a more expensive product offering.
And so we are not shy about pricing for the innovation when we’ve got real game changing innovation to bring to market.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
I guess first on pricing with the plus 2 in the quarter was pretty strong.
I guess I love your thoughts on -- what’s driving that what’s the promotional environment like? Obviously we know there are some tissue [indiscernible] going on but what would your outlook be? You think that plus 2 you put up but when does it start to decelerate as you moved through the year or in fact do you think that some of this currency driven pricing at a lag might keep it up at that plus 2 rate for a little while? That’s a great question and I think if you look at where we got most of the price it was in the markets that have had significant currency devaluation and local inflation as a result.
So places like Brazil Argentina Russia the Ukraine other markets like that where you’ve seen pretty rough currency market.
You've seen everybody and across all categories taking price pretty aggressively in a pretty good bit of inflation.
So again I think a lot of that has happened and as we'll get some comp of that flowing through for the next several quarters.
But I guess I wouldn’t say that that’s a long term trend at this stage.
Got it that’s helpful.
And then I guess on topline just a couple of quick things.
First on China obviously plus 20 is a great growth rate this quarter but it's gone from 45 to 35 from 30 to 20.
So when is it -- is plus 20 is that kind of where you think China settles out or might be even slip a little bit further given how robust that bridge still is and then overall Tom you mentioned obviously that comps get tougher in the back half of the year for the business as a whole.
You mentioned that the innovation pipeline I think picks up.
Do you think there is a chance that you guys don’t see a year on your deceleration in the back half of the year relative to what you saw in the first half of the year? I mean I guess I'd say so you are saying you think we’re going be down some sales or just slower growth rate in the back half? Sorry just slower growth rate.
I guess [indiscernible] tougher comps in the back half and I’d say that we gave the 3to 5 guidance we got 5 in already so I’m highly confident we'll be in that range where we could have a little slower growth rate in the back half than we did in the first half in part because of the tougher comps.
In china particular we still think the -- and I know the Nielsen data isn't showing this but we still think the diaper category is growing high single digits and there’s a lot going on in e-commerce that is being tracked in the Nielsen data that we’re seeing happen in those markets and so we still got a lot of innovation coming there and really we’re just getting started in fem care with the relaunch there.
We got a lot of additional product activity we can bring to those markets to continue to see growth and so I’d say we continue to expect K-C International’s going to have high single digit growth for some time to come.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi.
I know you mentioned that you’re able to pass through the prices in the emerging markets generally but it seems like in KCI tissue volumes were a little bit weak I wondering if you could give some color there historically.
Yes took price a little bit more aggressively in a couple of markets and took some volume risk on that Brazil was one that would come to mind and sometimes when you take price and tissue you deal with de sheeting which shows up as negative volume and positive price so you may be selling a similar number of rolls but you’re actually we measure volume in sheets not rolls so that can be a part of it in some markets as well.
Okay and in the US away from home market I believe there was an effort to raise prices I was just wondering if you could give an update on how that’s being accepted.
Yes several of the competitors took price we followed that’s still rolling out as we speak as you know in that market you got lots and lots of individual contracts and so it takes longer to have that price get betted down in the marketplace but so far that seems to be rolling out reasonably successfully.
Okay and just two last quick ones can you give a little bit more color on the increase of competition that you’re seeing in the US bath tissue market? Yes as you probably recall Georgia-Pacific had some production problems where they were on allocation at the beginning of last year early first half of 2013 so they’ve come back with more promotion this year and are really trying to get their shelf space back and some of their market share back.
Some of the other competitors in the marketplace have followed that and so we’ve tried to make sure that we’re competitive with primarily in Cottonelle Scott tissues held up pretty well in this environment.
Okay and then just last one on pulp you talked about maybe firmer than expected virgin fiber pricing I am just wondering if you could break that down between kind of the nature grade soft wood hard wood and soft pulp and what you’re seeing and expecting moving forward.
Yes I mean Northern softwood and fluff pulp has probably been the stickiest and the list price hasn’t come down much you are seeing some deals particularly on Northern soft wood below list price where we’re kind of just being bought off contract because I think the producers aren’t willing to bring the list down so that’s making the list price a little bit less relevant to the everyday transaction price that's happening in the market place.
Eucalyptus has probably been closer to what we were expecting still maybe a little bit on the high end of the range but again I’d say eucalyptus you see more supply still coming into the market place and more of a predictable behavior there.
And on fluff are you seeing relief FDA last week kind of talked about seeing [indiscernible] expecting fluff prices to come down is that something you’re experiencing as well? I think everybody’s expecting it we’re not seeing it yet.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Hi good morning.
Could you talk about your business in Venezuela? Kimberly is one of the few companies not to move to a weaker exchange rate so I’m wondering if the additional rate is what you believe is a true reflection of your economics there and also if you could talk about whether you’ve gotten any price relief.
That’s a trick question Connie as to what the true exchange rate is in Venezuela at this point in time but as we look at it and in fact we just reviewed this with our audit committee couple of days ago when we reviewed the 10-Q and the earnings releases so there’s about a third of the companies that we’ve been able to track down there that are still using the six-three rate there’s about a third that are using some form of a blended rate or the SICAD-I rate and there’re about a third that are using the SICAD-II rate and the choice as to which one they are using seems to have more to do with the type of business that they’re in and which rate they qualify for so if you’re in the services arena you’re probably in SICAD-I if you’re in the essential consumer products area you’re in the original CADIVI rate and so essentially the only exchange that we’re getting is at the six-three rate and we’ve got more foreign exchange in the second quarter than we even did in the first quarter at that rate.
So I think there has been some discussion with some Venezuelan government officials that they are considering aligning those at one rate.
And I think that’s probably the long-term trajectory.
At this point in time it’s something we review every quarter and talk about what’s the right rate.
But we’re not even eligible to apply for the SICAD-I or SICAD-II rate at this point in time.
In the meantime we try to be completely transparent in the queue about what our balance sheet exposure is in Venezuela and so that investors if they believe there is a different rate that should be applied they've got the information that they need to be able to do that.
And are you getting any relief on pricing yet? Given that we’re still at getting the exchange at the 6-3 rate it's difficult to argue for pricing at that point.
So if and when the rate changes then that will be a discussion at that point in time.
In the meantime we're more focused on getting enough foreign exchange to be able to continue to run the mill to bring in raw materials and to continue to bring in some finished product and so we work with the Venezuelan government authorities on that on a daily basis.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch  First question just back to incontinence.
It looks like P&amp;G has started to test the waters a little bit in Europe.
So do you have any early read on their approach on how you plan to respond to that? And then just on North American diapers clearly volume has been a little bit difficult in Huggies with the volume down low single digit; so can you talk about what your plan is to respond to that? Thanks.
Sure on the incontinence I mean they just started shipping in the UK just in the last month or so.
So we’ve picked up some product samples and those are being tested probably too early to tell.
I'd say at this point we would never take a competitor lightly.
But we feel pretty good with the innovation program that we have and the things that we still have coming in our -- behind our dependent Poise business.
On the positive side if you’re going to be the optimist here.
It’s that the Poise category in particular the light bladder leakage category is still pretty underpenetrated and so having another competitor come in and talk about it from the consumer standpoint could benefit all of us if the category grows more rapidly.
On the North American diaper front yes as you mentioned we’re not satisfied with the share.
I mean a lot of it has been lost particularly at a couple of large format retailers have been driven.
So we are going to try to make sure we are more competitive in the second half and have more innovation coming across our Huggies line-up to get that brand back in a healthier growth profile.
Got it thanks.
And then on professional last quarter you attributed the decline in North America partly to unfavorable weather but now price seems to be a bigger drag.
So can you talk through how you think about professional and developed markets given these dynamics? Yes I think the KCP business weather was certainly a challenge but as we look at it we probably say we didn’t execute as well as we needed to.
And so we're in the process of realigning some of our sales capabilities and that probably was more disruptive than we would have thought.
So we're focused on getting that business back on track so a little bit better performance overall in the second quarter.
So we had positive volume in North America which was a good sign.
We probably spent a little bit on price to get some of that which is where you saw the negative price.
But we were aligning that team to have a stronger second half and we should see that play out in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from Erin Lash with Morningstar.
I was wondering if you could speak to; first of with the Child Care volumes down mid-single digits and just your expectations for that segment of the business.
And if that's reflective of Pull-Ups and how that -- what you're doing I guess within that loss? Yes what we are seeing with Child Care is a couple of factors it is primarily Pull-Ups.
We are seeing growth in our size-6 diaper business; which would say that moms are keeping babies in diapers a little longer.
And part of that is there is an economic issue where the Pull-Ups are more expensive per piece than a disposable diaper.
And we’re also looking as to make sure that the Pull-Up is delivering on the product performance expectations where we are seeing a little bit more leakage in Pull-Ups and is that why the consumer is deciding to stay in diapers a bit longer.
And so we’ve got initiatives behind both of those areas and I would expect to see some improvement in our Pull-Ups business in the back half of the year and in to early 2015.
That’s helpful thank you.
And then if I could just a follow-up on Wendy’s question from earlier about potential divestitures resulting from the restructuring.
Is that -- was your answer indicative of the fact that you after the spin-off of the healthcare business that you’re content with your portfolio are you constantly re-examining your portfolio to see if there are other areas that may be are less core to the business? To take a long-term view we have been around a little over 140 years and our first product was Newsprint.
So our portfolio looks pretty different today than it did then.
And so I guess the answer is we’re always continually challenging ourselves and what we can add to the portfolio to make us better and then are there other properties in the portfolio that we maybe aren’t the right owner of long term and we have been pretty disciplined about doing that over the years.
This is I think my third spin-off but coming out of a big transaction like the spin I'd probably say in the near term the medium term we are pretty happy with the portfolio.
Okay thanks you that’s helpful.
And then just finally building off of that question with regards to potential acquisitions as the use of cash if you could speak and that and potentially where you might see some holding the portfolio that you would potentially look to fill by making acquisitions whether from a product perspective or a geographic perspective? Thank you.
Yes we have not done a bunch of strategic M&amp;A in fact the one business that probably was doing some M&amp;A was in our healthcare business and then when the spin happens I am sure that that team will have some interest in continuing to look to add healthcare properties to their portfolio.
As I look at our core business we have got enough organic growth opportunities in the emerging markets.
Today a high percentage of our business in the emerging markets is in diapers and bath tissue we have got huge opportunities to continue to grow baby wipes and Pull-Ups and our adult care business as the global population ages.
So our KCP business as the world industrializes has a great growth opportunity for us outside North America and Europe.
And so we see a lot of things that we can go chase with big opportunity that we already own and so we're focused on those probably more than looking for the strategic acquisitions.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hello good morning everyone.
Just to kind of how you wrap it up with Venezuela if you can tell us how much your local currency sales growth was and what percentage of the profit currently represent because I understand that you are now getting access to cadaver rates which other companies in the same space seems not to be getting access to.
I guess Javier I wouldn’t assume that other companies aren’t getting the letters of credit at the 6-3 rate like we are so I mean I think that may be in some categories and not others the more essential you are so diapers and bath tissue would be firmly in that area the more likely you are to get the 6-3 rate.
And as you look at 2013 data Venezuela was a couple percent of sales and a little bit more than that as a percent of profits.
It’s probably a little bit higher than that in the first six months of the year so we've probably seen a little bit faster growth.
If you look in the second quarter I think of the double-digit KCI growth Venezuela was about a 1 point of that.
So it’s not way out of proportion with the roll in the portfolio.
Understood thank you.
And the way that I understood your commentary with regards to pricing you mentioned because 5 points have been both in tissue and personal care international.
It seems like not all of it is in place so does it mean that we're going to see even higher pricing going into the third quarter?  I mean I think most of it is in place and it's just that as you compare it to prior year you will have a positive comp for the next several quarters as that rolls through.
Okay and finally on Mexico.
You attribute the decline on the joint venture profits mostly to macroeconomic dynamics but is it -- there is a competitive aspect to it is something happening to actual retail prices or could you elaborate more on what’s happening with JV income in Mexico?  Yes I mean I think if you look at our shares in Mexico they have been very stable and so the team has defended successfully.
There is more competition in Mexico as both CMPC and Mabesa in particular have been aggressive in tissue and diapers.
You are also seeing a relatively weak economic environment and a more challenged consumer.
There has been some of the tax reform proposals that rolled some VAT through that took spending power out of the pockets of Mexican consumers that had an effect on category health broadly.
And you are seeing that in some of the big retailers I think some of the large retailers have had negative same-store comps for the last two quarters in a row which is the first time in my career I can remember that happening in Mexico.
And so the expectation for growth down there was to grow 3.5% 4% and GDP has been growing more like 1% and that’s having a disproportionate impact on consumer confidence.
And so again we have got big shares we are defending them.
We got good margins.
We are largely protecting those but we are not getting as much growth out of that market as we would have hoped for this year.
Thank you Tom and just one more on I mean it has been touched before on the weaker volumes seen in diapers in the U.S.
It seems to me that when you changed the diaper count earlier this year volumes weakened.
So to what extent it’s an issue of pricing that after you reduce the number of diapers per package just started losing share? Whenever you do a count change we always get a little bit of a drop in volume because if you think about it the customers are ordering the same number of cases and the consumers are buying packages at the same rate and everyone’s inventory on average drops by the amount of the count change so that’s not that unusual.
We were probably six months later than our primary competitor in making the count change so we probably had a price advantage for six months and now it’s more of an even competition on that front.
So I guess I would say that part of it I could understand.
We're also seeing those with a growth in Luvs and the feature promotion that they had in the second quarter that’s probably something that we will be more responsive to in the back half of the year both with innovation and making sure we are competitive in key areas.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
And just to follow up on that last comment on Luvs you respond with some news in the second half might that imply more activity at the lower end of the market right because with Luvs they've got two distinctive brands one more cater into the lower end where Huggies is trying to sort of be all things to all people.
So is that something that you contemplate a more of a mid-tier priced brand or sub-brand? Well if you think about it we both us and our primary competitor do this in a lot of different ways so if you would go into China for example you'd find Pampers across all product tiers.
You'd see the same thing for us in many markets and so it’s not unusual to have the same parent brand and you'll have a sub-brand so Huggies Snug &amp; Dry will be our tier 4 brand that we would be focused on competing more with Luvs and I was trying to make sure on the right package price and the overall value equation product performance and price that delivers to the consumer in that segment.
And Luvs is sort of priced above private label and below the Huggies and Pampers tier 4 and so just trying to get that gap right for the value that you are delivering in the product.
Okay.
And then on that private label segway SCA on their call I guess late last week talked about the impact that they believe they are starting to see of the new higher grade capacity income in consumer tissue in the U.S.
and that’s something I think that in the past as you've commented we don’t think it will be a huge impact on the market.
Any change in that? What are you currently seeing in terms of this higher quality private label product coming to shelf? I mean we are seeing better quality private label.
It hasn’t hit our shares at this point in time so we see Cottonelle as a differentiated offer and Scott tissue has some of the most loyal consumers in the category.
And so it’s probably been a bigger factor for some of the other categories.
I think in this last quarter private label bath was up about a share point year-on-year and so that’s not trivial but it’s something that we are watching but it hasn’t had a big impact on our business at this stage.
And do you think that that’s playing a role? I know you can pretty specifically point to Georgia Pacific trying to regain its momentum given their problems last year.
But do you think that this share gain from private labels also influencing competitor behavior and then just the overall environment gets more competitive.
The reasons may be varied but the outcome is the same that everyone gets more promotional? If you look at bath tissue and towels you walk into every store in America and somebody’s branded towel and bath tissue is on deal every week of the year.
And so we all take turns with the promotion so the question is are you going deeper are you even trying to be even more frequent? But again I think we've seen a little bit more depth of promotion from GP this year which is what both Procter and us to some extent have responded to.
Okay great and then finally just on the healthcare spin.
So earlier in the call you said that share repurchases would partially offset the 2% to 3% dilution from stranded overhead cost in year one.
So does that mean that your ballpark figures at this point we can think about should we think about 1% to 2% EPS dilution or is it not that high as a net number of the share repurchase? That’s probably in the ballpark and we'll give you a more complete answer on the third quarter call when we give you the full scope of we figure out how much of the stranded cost we can take out.
If we can take all of it out there is a scenario where you might not have any dilution but we'll I think for a working assumption for now that’s probably in the ballpark.
Yes we will be servicing Halyard in shared services and IT and things like that so we will be getting some income to cover those stranded costs for at least a period of time next year.
Okay.
And [indiscernible] the restructuring you will be able to move quickly enough so potentially some of that restructuring benefit or offset stranded has actually happened in year one of the spin? Yes that’s the idea.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is looks like the tissue margin seem to be quite impressive I think in light of some of the competitive activity that you just mentioned.
And I was just wondering if you could help us --  [Multiple Speakers] that's very nice of you.
Well hey give credit where credit is due how about that?  You want to ask a question? I thought you were just telling us we were doing a great job.
Well you got to take the good with the bad I guess but seriously when you look at the business are you continuing to de-sheet is that one way you’re able to I guess offset some of the promotional inducements you’re providing consumers or is it just totally on the cost side? I'd say it’s like the rest of our business we’re trying to do is products innovation wherever we can so continuing to drive premium variance even in launching flexible moist wipes in the bath tissue category around the world in many of our international markets we’re selling Kleenex moist wipes for hand and face clean up and so we’re trying to really drive the higher margin segments of those businesses around the world wherever we can to get the margins where they’re investible and not dilutive to the corporate average.
We are to be sure focused on costs in that business because that is a key part of the P&amp;L but it’s as much around innovation and mix management as it is a pure cost take out play.
Got you and you know maybe not that you would know the minds of some of these folks but we’re kind of baffled or intrigued by the fact that there continues to be I guess sort of this onslaught of continued plans to build capacity by either new private label entrants or existing players and I’m thinking of the Kruger announcement in the last week or two and to add I think another machine what I think was one of your plants and [indiscernible] and then also Asia Pulp and Paper through their St.
Croix division up in Maine and I are they just at a completely different part of the market that so far hasn’t touched you and so therefore they’re seeing success without it coming at the branded expense or what do you think they’re thinking? Yes I mean as we look at the North American tissue supply demand balance there’s been some new assets brought on there’s also been a bunch of capacity taken out and typically in the branded in the premium arena there hasn’t been that much that’s destabilized the market.
At the low end when we look down at the away from home private label tissue market as sort of the bottom end even that pricing hasn’t been way out of whack so so far we’re not seeing anything crazy happening and some of these guys may add capacity they may wind up taking out some older rollout capacity at the same time and so just because somebody built the machine doesn’t mean that more consumers are going to choose private label.
The next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
I did want to build on that question from a previous ones if you’re seeing all of a sudden it feels like a lot of moving parts in your competitive environment so for the new CAD machines that are coming out in private label so that it’s higher quality it’s supposed to be not for away from home use but in home use so that might impact you in the next few years the (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PG" title="The Procter &amp; Gamble Company">PG</a>) [ph] incontinence move and who knows if either of those two things will be successful but it only becomes more competitive you mentioned already more price competition from GP and so I can understand how there’s a as you term it ‘slightly more difficult environment’ right now but how do you think about this not just as a short term shift in the marketplace and these changes being more of a long term bad change that you have to deal with.
I guess I would say this Ali we probably would say we’ve always had (proctors) [ph] of tough competitors so we know that they’re always going to be there and we run up against them everywhere in the marketplace but they all look at it and say globally there’s more tough competition everywhere in the world and so I look at the SCA coming out of Europe and they’ve been very aggressive growing their business in international markets we’ve got both Unicharm and Cowle who are expanding out of Japan with terrific products in the personal care front you know we’ve got the CNPCs of the world in South America that are moving north into Mexico and so there’s no shortage of people that get up every day wanting to eat our lunch.
So we use that within our own teams as a challenge for us to move even faster on the innovation front and to make sure we’re getting there with the best ideas in market and that we've got the best marketing capability that we’re sharp on cost and that make sure that we can’t be beat wherever we choose to operate and so it is very much of a motivator for us to know you’ve got that much good competition coming after you every day.
So I get the motivational angle on it and that’s a great way to manage folks for sure but do people -- do you the people internally really think that there is kind of an acceleration and increased competition in so many of the areas that you’re looking at or do you think it’s kind of status quo because it does feel like there’s acceleration at least from an outside observation perspective.
Yes no we are behaving like there’s an acceleration so we are spending a lot more time war gaming possible competitive activity as we think about launch plans in individual markets for example Unicharm is about to launch in Brazil a diaper pant they’ve been building the plant there for two years and we’ve been planning our defense strategy in Brazil for two years and have launched every pant we can think of in the marketplace to occupy all the key strategy so we probably pulled ahead and accelerated innovation in that market to make sure we were positioned correctly when they did launch and so we are monitoring competitive activity much more closely around the world and trying to incorporate that into our business plan so that we are as prepared as we can be to not just defend but to thrive in those markets.
That’s very helpful lens.
If I were to ask you to focus on just one specific area which is China right now it feels like you are shifting and have over the past couple of quarters actually successfully from driving a lot of your growth from distribution gains much more to share gains.
Can you comment on that observation if that’s really what’s going on there? Number one and number two is what you are broadly seeing from that marketplace? Yes I'd say that’s probably because every additional city you bring on is probably slightly smaller than the last one.
They are still cities of millions of people so they are pretty good size chunks of business.
We are seeing as you get traction in more and more places and are picking up share in those places but that’s -- you are getting probably more share gain although I would tell you any Nielsen data that you see in China you should think twice about just because the coverage isn’t great yet.
I think may be the one thing that is different in China is the rapid growth of ecommerce and I think in some of the emerging markets in particular China you could see a different form of retail development over time with a much bigger e-com particularly in areas with dense population and relatively low delivery cost.
And so I think we'll see how that plays out but we are obviously spending a lot of time with our digital marketing capability and our ecommerce team there to make sure we're fully represented in that channel.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Just the guidance first of all let’s go down to nickel why did you even tweak it was the change just that Kimberly Mexico came in a little wider because the pulp prices came down a little bit they came down less than you thought but it's not like they are up year-over-year so if you can just comment on that briefly because it's like I said its only nickel?  Yes we were sense only nickel and basically as we look at the back half of the year we got half the year in and a $0.20 range seemed a little wide given as tight as we usually are around numbers and Mexico was down enough that we felt like that was probably the right signal.
So we'll give you another look at it in the fourth quarter may narrow it further at that point in time we'll see.
Okay got you and then everything you guys have done over the last 10 years there is may be much more to consumer products company rather than more of a commodity pulp company which has been great.
The only metric that hasn’t really moved is the gross margin so I am curious if you think there is a compelling gross margin opportunity because you things that are in the portfolio things about the portfolio but that gross margin line and I know commodities have a lot to do with it but that’s the one that really hasn’t budged and kind of to emerge as a consumer products company I think that your gross margins are about 1 000 basis points below some of the other competitors there so do you think that’s an opportunity now that everything has kind of cleaned up?  Well its certainly one that it has gotten better.
We're just sorry you haven’t noticed it as much Bill but it was down around 30 and it’s now up into the mid-30s again.
Now that’s where it was before we got hit with a lot of the commodity cost inflation.
And I do think that is a big driver of multiple long-term and so it's one of the things one of the key metrics we focused on with each of business teams is as we bring innovation to market is it gross margin accretive.
And so that we're going to agree completely that’s a key driver of a healthy franchise long-term.
At this time we have no other questioners in the queue.
All right.
We appreciate everybody’s questions today and we'll close with the comment from Tom.
Once again thank you for your interest in Kimberly-Clark.
We continue to execute our plan effectively and expect to deliver continued strong results in the second half.
Thanks very much.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience and holding.
We now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow up if you would like to ask an audio question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me in Dallas today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of third quarter results and give a short update on the health care spin-off.
Tom will then discuss our organization restructuring and also our full year outlook.
We'll finish with Q&amp;A.
We have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our Web-site.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let's start with the headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 4% highlighted by 10% growth in KC International; second we increased adjusted earnings per share of $1.61 that’s an all time record and up 12% year-on-year; and third we continue to see strong results from our focus on capital management including working capital cash generation capital spending and returning cash to shareholders.
Now let’s cover the details of our results.
Third quarter sales were $5.4 that’s up more than 3% versus last year.
Underlying organic sales rose 4%.
Adjusted gross margin was 35.1% in the third quarter up 70 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating profit was up 15% versus year ago with an operating margin of 17.4% that’s up 180 basis points compared to the prior year.
Results benefited from organic sales growth $100 million of forced cost savings and lower G&amp;A spending.
I am really encouraged by our team’s continued focus on cost savings and spending discipline that’s helping us improve margins and invest for future growth in areas like advertising which was up $10 million in the quarter.
On the other hand we absorbed $55 million of input cost inflation and negative effects from currency exchange rates.
Moving down to P&amp;L equity income fell 37% driven by softness at KC de Mexico.
In addition the adjusted effective tax rate was $0.05 drag on the quarter that was mostly offset by a lower share count.
So putting it all together third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.61 up 12% year-on-year and reflects continued topline momentum KC International broad based margin improvements and forced cost savings.
Now turning to cash flow our cash provided by operations in the third quarter was $976 million that’s up 7% year-on-year driven by improved working capital.
We continue to drive down primary working capital.
Our year-to-date cash conversion cycle is down three days compared to full year 2013 so we’re tracking to comfortably exceed our one to two day improvement objective for the year.
In terms of capital allocation third quarter dividend payments and shared repurchases totaled more than $0.5 billion.
As a reminder on October 7th we increased our full year share repurchase target to $2 billion.
That’s up from our previous estimate of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion as a result of cash proceeds we expect from Halyard Health in conjunction with the spin-off of our Health Care business.
So this means that full year dividends and share repurchases should be at about $3.3 billion.
Now I’ll highlight a few areas from our segment areas for the quarter.
In personal care organic sales rose 6% performance was led by KC International with organic sales up 12%.
In terms of highlights for KCI this quarter in diapers organic sales were up 25% in China 25% in Russia and Eastern Europe and 10% in Brazil.
Organic sales in KC International were also up double digits in feminine care led by Brazil China Eastern Europe and South Korea.
Finally our adult care and baby wipes businesses delivered double digit organic sales growth in the quarter.
In North America personal care organic sales were down slightly volumes were up for our Poise and Depend adult care brands GoodNites youth pants and Huggies baby wipes.
On the other hand volumes were down in Huggie diapers and Pull-Ups training pants.
Overall personal care operating margins were 19.5% in the quarter that’s up 160 basis points year-on-year with improvements in North America KC International and Europe.
Moving to consumer tissue organic sales increased 3%.
In North America organic sales were up more than 3% behind strong volume performance.
That reflects market share gains innovation and increased promotion activity.
KC International organic sales were up 5% was driven by higher net selling prices in response to unfavorable currencies and cost inflation.
Consumer tissue operating margins of 16.8% were up 250 basis points year-on-year driven by organic sales growth and cost savings.
Now K-C Professional organic sales increased 3% performance was led by 13% growth in K-C International.
We continue to expand our business for industrialization and economic development recurring particularly in North America and China.
Elsewhere KCP organic sales were down 2% in North America and up 3% in Europe.
Overall KCP margins were 18.9% that's up 50 basis points year-on-year.
And lastly healthcare organic sales were off 3% mostly due to lower net selling prices healthcare operating margins up 13.3% were down compared to a strong performance a year ago our year-to-date margins remain healthy and up year-on-year.
Now a quick update on the healthcare spin-off we’re in the final stages of completing the transaction the form 10 registration statement has been deemed effective by the SEC.
Halyard’s Board of Directors has been fully established and debt financing for the company is in place.
The spin-off has set to occur at the end of the day on Friday October 31st and Halyard Health will begin trading under the ticker symbol HYH on Monday November 3rd.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we achieve solid organic sales growth we delivered significant cost savings on all time record adjusted earnings per share and we continue to allocate capital and shareholder friendly ways.
Now I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Since Mark has reviewed our third quarter results I’ll just add that I am encourage with our performance and a challenging environment.
While we certainly have opportunities to further improve our growth initiatives are on track and our financial discipline is generating strong cost savings margin improvements and cash flow.
Now let me turn the comment on our organizational restructuring.
As we have said all along since we announced the healthcare spin-off we’re committing to offsetting the impact of the stranded overhead cost that result from the spin.
This restructuring program will do that and will make us more efficient at the same time.
Restructuring program will also give us more flexibility to invest in our brands to invest in our targeted growth initiatives and to build the capabilities that will help us win in the marketplace.
This restructuring is a result of a global assessment by our functions and by our business teams that identified the ways that we could streamline the organization structure simplify the way we work and make our overhead spending even more competitive with the best-in-class companies.
Our organizations in all major geographies will be effected by this program.
Workforce reductions are expected to be in a range of 1 100 to 1 300 people and primarily affect salaried employees.
Majority of the reductions are expected to occur by the end of next year.
The financial details for the restructuring are included in this morning’s news release but to recap this whole cost for the program were expected to be $130 million to $160 million after tax charges will begin in the fourth quarter of this year and it will be wrapped up by the end of 2016.
Savings will begin in earnest next year and should total 120 million to 140 million pre-tax by the end of 2017 that’s nicely above the stranded overhead cost from the spin which are about $85 million.
Cash cost will be about 80% of the total charge so the cash payback on the restructuring is less than one and a half years.
This restructuring effort is further evidence of how we manage our company with financial and cost discipline.
Now let me move to the outlook for the full year.
Although the macroeconomic environment remains volatile there have been no significant changes to our full year input cost or currency rate assumptions from the outlook that we provided to you in July.
Still most currencies have weakened relative to the U.S.
dollars just the last month as a result we expect that currency overall will be a sequential headwind in the fourth quarter as compared with our third quarter results.
We also continue to closely monitor the environment in Venezuela.
Access to letters of credit to pay for imported raw materials there continue to be inconsistent.
Going forward if we don’t receive adequate amounts of letters of credit we could curtail some of our production as necessary rather than further increase our U.S.
dollar exposure.
Now in terms of our business overall we have good top-line momentum with more than 4% organic sales growth of the first nine months of the year.
We expect the full year to be at least at the midpoint of our 3% to 5% target.
On the bottom line our guidance for the year is consistent with our previous outlook adjusted for the healthcare spin-off.
We expect to adjusted earnings per share will be between $5.93 to $6.03 assuming the spin-off occurs at the end of October.
This guidance includes a $0.10 per share impact from the spin-off of the last two months of healthcare's 2014 earnings.
Our previous guidance was between $6 and $6.15 a share and included a full year of healthcare results.
So adjusted for the spin-off the midpoint of our current outlook is equivalent to the midpoint of our previous guidance.
Following the spin historical results for healthcare business will be reported that earnings from discontinued operations so included in our 2014 outlook is $0.47 of adjusted earnings per share from discontinued operations.
That means our outlook for adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations is $5.46 to $5.56 a share.
So summary we continue to deliver good financial results and we’re on track with our plans for the year we’re taking further steps to improve our business and we are convinced that successful execution of our global business plan will continue to result in strong returns for our shareholders.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and now we’ll begin to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the floor is now open for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Just starting on the restructuring program do you think the benefits you could see next year can at least offset the stranded costs? I know you’re not looking for much impact but can they at least offset that? I think between the combinations of the benefits we’re going to get plus we’ll have some transition services agreement income we should be able to cover the stranded cost hit next year.
We’ll give you more guidance on specifics on that in our January fourth quarter release when we’ll have more specific guidance for 2015.
Okay and just turning to Personal Care can you talk a little bit about both the adult incontinence market and the strength that you saw particularly in light of P&amp;G's reentry into the market as well as diapers? And is there something strategic and big that you need to do to start to get that growing again? Sure I’ll cover both of those.
In Adult Care we probably would say that we’ve done a pretty good job of preparing for the entrance of Procter into the category so we’ve been able to launch a lot of innovations.
We’ve actually strengthened our distribution in the face of their launch.
So we feel like we’re on track with our plan for the year and yes I am sure you’ll hear from Procter later this week.
My guess is they’ll say they got the distribution they were looking for and their launch it on track.
And so it could be that both those statements are true and the rest of the category is feeling the tension in terms of ten on private labels is where most of the share gain that Procter’s got and so far has come from but good strong growth there.
On the diaper front what you’re seeing is is a trading up trading down phenomenon.
Our super premium segment of our category grew double digits in the quarter picked up a couple of share points but we’ve lost more than that in Huggies main line and Love’s picked up a fair amount of share.
And so there is some product performance things we’ll be addressing and we’re going to make sure we’re watching the value gaps with Love’s to try to stabilize that business and deliver a better performance.
But you can rest assured that we’re not happy with the U.S.
diaper business at this point in time.
Okay and just lastly on K-C Professional I guess there is a way from home increase in the market can you just give us an update on how that’s proceeding?  Yes we’ve probably had limited benefit from that and as you saw in the quarter we had negative price in KCP in North America.
So you’re seeing some price erosion in the low end of that business and so any net price gain has been pretty minimal at this point in time and I think you’re seeing a fairly stagnant economy is probably not helping much on that front.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
So a couple of things first one to push a little bit more on diapers and as a broader category because in North America because you talk a little about price mix improving slightly but then in North America in particular clearly the Huggies volumes were down and I am trying to understand whether you’re seeing any resurgence into Pull-Ups versus what used to be any improvement from the consumer trade up there? And also any birth rate changes we’re starting hear rumblings of positivity there? Yes we'd say in the birth has been very slight positive signals so far which in a sense is good it’s not falling anymore.
So that’s probably good news.
I wouldn’t say it has turned into a baby boomlet yet on that front.
And then in the Pull-Ups category we really aren’t seeing much traction yet and so still moms staying in diapers a little longer still seeing size six growing as moms are choosing to stay at that level so those things we’re working on to make sure we’re driving the right innovation in Pull-Ups.
We did have a very good GoodNites quarter as we launched some new innovation on GoodNites and so our total childcare volumes were pretty flat in the quarter but Pull-Ups was down and GoodNites was up and didn’t show up in the share number because there is a lot of GoodNites stuff as pipeline fill.
Okay and then on North America consumer tissue looked like volumes were good price mix was down three can you talk about the effect of de-sheeting on that price mix (obviously) [ph] it might have rolled off? And in particular how much of that is related to what we’ve been hearing for years now but sounds like it’s down in the ground and producing the private label pad technology trying to compare with Europe pad? And moreover what do you think the price volume equation looks going forward? I think the -- good question.
So I’ll say on consumer tissue we’ve rolled off most of the de-sheeting impact so there wasn’t much in the quarter on that front at all.
We did step up promotional activity from second quarter where we were not competitive in the marketplace.
It was competing with other branded activity in the market where some of our competitors have stepped things up in the second quarter.
We picked it up in the third quarter and you saw that show up in the volume growth so business that response well that we were more competitive we were not leading the price down but we were trying to make sure we’re matching up to the future pricing in the marketplace and saw a good volume growth across the board and a good back to school season on facial and saw high single digit growth there.
Good growth on Cottonelle and a solid growth on Scott Tissue Viva Vantage’s launch is pretty much on track and towel growth was up mid-single digits overall.
So just good execution and making sure you’re competitive on shelf every day.
Okay.
And the last one if I can just throw in is on Halyard in your health care business.
So is it fair to think about the overall dilution I mean we mentioned and we talked about it about 9% on a full year basis excluding any adjustments.
But then if you go through and look at the transition services agreement you look at the share repurchases that you’re getting from the payments they’re giving you and then this incremental cost cutting.
Is it fair to think about the net dilution of something like 4% to 5% on an annual basis is that the right way to think about it? Yes I think you’re probably in the ballpark.
We’ll give you a little bit more specific guidance on that in January.
But I’d say we’d expect to try to minimize that as much as possible.
And we’ll be looking in our January guidance to give you on a continuing ops basis a plan that looks like our global business plan with consistent top line and high single digit bottom line a mid to high single digit bottom line as we’ve done in the past.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Can you talk a little bit about the drivers behind international growth because that continues to be quite robust first half past for the categories growing now have seen any changes in the categories since the quarter ended? And are you gaining more share in existing retailers how much of that is incremental distribution? Yes I mean there is a lot going on in emerging markets and they’re pretty exciting place from a lot of dimensions this year with a lot of volatility and a lot of some political instability mixed in.
So it’s been a pretty exciting place and our teams there have done an awesome job of executing driving innovation in the market.
And so if you think about Russia and Eastern Europe we’re up 25% in the quarter done a great job of launching diaper pants in boy/girl there and have really taken off a fairly tough currency environment managed to get price to offset a lot of the currency hit.
So we’d say we’re growing ahead of the category there.
But the category is probably growing high single low double digits and we’re -- as you look at the broad Russia and Eastern Europe markets together Russia is probably a little slower than that but good execution from our team on the ground.
China again 25% growth in the quarter that’s on a 45% comp last year so very strong growth.
We’re in the 100 cities now that was our goal to be in a 100 cities by the end of the year.
So we’ve picked up distribution which is part of it.
We’ve done well in e-commerce which is the fastest growing segment in China.
And so we’d say the Nielsen data would looked at the categories not doing much our guess would be that China diaper category is probably growing high single or low double digit at this point.
And we have not seen a big shift since the end of the quarter that I know of.
And moving to Latin America good execution in Brazil with the launch of boy/girl diaper pants there as well in the face of a Unicharm launch and a pretty aggressive Proctor investment and so our business there performed pretty well.
And we’d say we’re going to again probably growing a little faster than the category in Brazil and across Latin America.
Argentina would be another market where a lot of economic turmoil but the team has done a great job of delivering price increases and volume increases in the market.
So it’s been an exciting year in international with good innovation good execution in the market and it’s shown up in good results.
Thanks.
Appreciate the comprehensive review.
And just following up on that you talked a little bit about the dollar strengthening and where you got price in Russia.
How do you think about profitability for KCI going forward obviously with the dollar strengthening beyond just Russia? No I think that it will be a headwind in the fourth quarter for sure we guess that probably sequentially it’s much of $0.10 headwind on currency third quarter to fourth quarter.
And we’ll pull a plan together for 2015 that continues to look at preserving the shape of that P&amp;L and continuing to drive growth in local currency and we’ll be transparent with you on how that shapes up in terms of dollars.
Would you expect KCI margins to be up year-over-year next quarter? They make good progress this quarter and they had a good cost savings quarter.
They’ve done a great job of getting price where we’ve had currency weakness.
And so I’d expect certainly margin stability sequentially.
We had terrific margins across our segments in the third quarter so that’s maybe a tougher comp.
But I would say if you look at our year-to-date averages in the segments that's certainly a good predictor of what we’re capable of and would expect that to continue.
Got it thanks.
Just if I could add one last question I know you’re right now not ready yet to give fiscal '15 EPS outlook but on raw materials with crude and natural gas down pretty dramatically recently would you expect raw materials in places to decelerate next year or does the stronger dollar and still higher pulp and resin more than offset that? Thanks.
I think this recent move hasn’t floated its way into the supply chains yet.
So if you looked at pulp outlook it was still it looked like its trending higher in ’15 but I don’t think that’s the recent moves in the dollar are fully baked into that yet.
If you looked at polymer polymer is going up right now not down like oil has done but I would expect if oil stays where it is that the polymer supply chain would start to reflect some of that.
And so we hopefully have a bit more clarity on that when we talk next in January.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning.
Tom I hate to get into ’15 again but I am only doing it because you said a couple of things that I just want to make sure I can pull together correctly right so you said that this synergy was 85 million I think you said that you think you could offset that in 2015 I want to also understand how that works with your 2014 continuing operations base of 546 to 556.
So that fine 546 to 556 includes all of this synergy right so you will be offsetting 85 million or call it $0.15 plus a share in ’15 if you can offset that is that the right way to think about it? Yes so we’re going to get some transition services in common and in ’15 it will lost a portion of the 85 million and then we should get the additional restructuring benefits that we think should have a shot at offsetting the rest of it.
So I think the answer to your question is yes to the extent I understand it.
No that’s helpful I guess I am just trying to understand what the growth rate will be offered.
So that 546 to 556 should have a deflated date if you were to have sort of a long-term planning algorithm EPS growth rate that you just cited sort of mid to high single-digits in ’15 it would be above and beyond that 85 million of cost offsets is that right? Yes I think that’s directionally right on the other hand we’ll have other investment opportunities currency commodity cost issues and so that’s the rest of the picture that we need to bring together into a plan and share that with you in January.
Okay.
And then I guess on SG&amp;A the 2014 levels were I mean even in dollars below 2013 below 2012 levels even.
I know you’ve said you’re pretty pleased with cost savings and that’s a good number.
But is there anything specific that was going on this quarter in SG&amp;A that we should think about and the sustainability of that sort of trend? You have to put more focused attention I think as people were getting ready for the restructuring they were already starting to cut cost in many areas good management of the control levels things like travel and other things were lower in the quarter than normal.
And so I think that’s part of it and if you looked at the comp versus third quarter last year we had more compensation increases last year and we had a little bit of compensation decreases as we adjusted some of our long-term plans in the quarter that might be the only thing that might qualify as a little unusual although those things get adjusted every quarter up or down.
Third quarter last year was on the up note and this year was a little bit a little bit lower as we reflected some of the currency implications and other things and on our sales impact on the three year count that’s rolling every year.
That’s right.
Can you just one last quick one can you just say where the Venezuela growth was for the quarter? Volume growth was pretty flat and so I don't know if Paul has looked at total top-line but….
Yes we did have a little bit of price benefit but you’re right Tom there was no volume growth in the quarter in Venezuela.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from a Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi this is James Armstrong for Chip.
How are you today? The first one is going back a little bit to the cost overhead reduction charge that’s taking place in the fourth quarter.
If we’re seeing most of that charge in the fourth quarter why aren't we seeing the full benefits until 2017 could you help walk us through a little bit of timing behind that? Yes.
Sure we’ll book the severance so we made the decision even though of the separations won't occur and will roll out over all of ’15 and even some in the ’16.
That helps.
And then switching to tissue is tissue volume strength coming at the expense of the other national branded players or do you think you’re gaining share versus private label? If you look at the share charge private label shares were pretty stable sequentially and actually are up a bit year-to-date and our shares are up a bit year-to-date as well.
So with the primarily taking share from other player other branded players.
And then lastly as you look at the demographic trends and coming back to this a little with millennial households forming what’s your forecast in births in the coming year? And how do you expect that to impact diaper demand as we go out into the 2015 ‘16 ‘17 timeframe? I’d say our -- we talked about birth rate in a couple of earlier questions and our prediction is relatively flat very slow growth in the U.S.
birth rate.
So we can quote you a number offline but we’re not seeing much at this point.
I would say that’s going to be a big driver of category growth in the next couple of years.
But I’d say we’re also continuing to tinker with the model to be better at predicating at our more recent models looking at household formation.
And unemployment levels have been reasonable coming out of the crisis I am not sure they’re going to be as useful as we move into a more stable economy and find the next driver of growth rate is something that we continue to look for.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with KCC.
Hi my question has to do with Venezuela in light of sort of how long that’s been as difficult as it’s been for you and others; is there a scenario where you would exit Venezuela like Clorox has decided to? Wendy at this point I don’t think that’s an option for us.
We’ve been consistently profitable in Venezuela which is I think different from the situation that was there at Clorox.
We have substantial Bolivar reserves in the country in cash to continue to finance our operation.
Our issue is access to U.S.
dollars to import raw materials and so Mark and I have set an overall U.S.
dollar cap that we’ve reached for that business.
And so as long as we continue to get foreign exchange we’ll be able to find ways to continue to run the operations there.
We’re also looking at more local sourcing can we find more raw material that we can buy with the Bolivars that we have to run that business.
And at end of the day we’re trying to make sure we’re serving the moms in Venezuela that need diapers and need bathroom tissue every day to care of their families.
We’re trying to provide the employment in a stable way for our employees that are there and as long as we can do that and operate ethically we’ll continue to operate in Venezuela.
Got it and your market shares there are stable or strong? Our market shares have been stable although because we have been limiting our exposure.
We know we’re not in full throttle of growth there so we’ve walked away from business because we didn’t have foreign exchange to bring products in.
And as you know from probably reading about that place there is shortages all over the place so market share is in a relative driver.
I mean our driver of that business is access to U.S dollars.
Got it and then just back on the U.S.
business obviously to the extent commodities come down as we expect them to and that flows into the market place I mean it seems like there should be or could be a lot of more flexibility on both your part as well as your competitors' part just simply get more promotional? And is that a concern for the category I mean I know you got to be frustrated by your market share trends but is your plan really to bring innovation to market or is it more marketing or is there a risk that we get into some sort of down and dirty price competition like we’ve seen in some other categories in the U.S.? At this point you’re not seeing the commodity wave flow our direction in fact if anything I think polymer went up $0.08 a pound this month or something so you’re not seeing the benefit flow through that would support the first part of your statement and pulp has been sticky.
You’ve seen eucalyptus come down but it’s still at the high end or even slightly above our full year outlook.
Northern softwood hasn’t come down and it is above our full year outlook.
So you’re not seeing the commodity underpinnings of that that would lead to more price competition.
And at the end of the day in every category the value that mom gets as a combination of price and performance and we got to make sure we’re delivering the right product performance at a competitive price and that’s probably true the world over.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I am wondering about the restructuring you’re now undertaking so it looks like it is bigger than the stranded overhead so my question is excluding the savings that you’re going to get from it do you think you have enough money to spend defending and growing your categories in diapers and adult incontinence or did you need this program in order to be able to invest more? No I think that’s the right way to think about this is that -- we started out looking at the restructuring program saying first priority is we've got to cover the stranded cost because those are not going away and we’ve got to make sure we do no harm with the spend that we protect the core business.
Second priority then is to say what else can we do to create more capacity to invest in our business to invest in growth ideas to invest in innovation.
And our business teams around the company really rallied to that and came up with an aggressive plan and it's never easy to do these things and these are people’s jobs and employees' lives that are effective by it but it is something that we need to do to allow us to invest and grow the business.
And actually the question is is it enough it’s probably never enough.
And we’ve also had a great quarter of cost savings in our forced program and we need more from there as well.
And so we’re continuing to look at opportunities to get more productive in every aspect of the business to make every P&amp;L line item work for us to allow us to compete and invest and grow our business wherever we’ve got opportunities to do that.
Okay.
So are the restructuring programs you said something I found interesting.
Are the restructuring programs essentially designed by the business units or are they more top-down directed? Well it was a little bit of both.
And the functions that had the most stranded cost there we had a clear target and each of the teams went and worked for that target.
On the business unit side they did a lot of competitive benchmarking and said we’re the best in class companies operating in each of the major functional areas that serve each of the businesses and came above up with a list of ideas and initiatives that we supported and decided to go forward with.
So like every good plan it’s a mix of top-down and bottom up.
Okay.
If I could just ask one final question on Venezuela I mean assuming that the three official exchange rates converged to one over time it’s not going to be towards the stronger end of the currency rates it will be towards the weaker end.
So if these levels converged to say like 30 boulevards or 40 boulevard to the dollar what’s the impact on you since you’re still at the official 6.3? So several things first of all the balance sheet would get re-priced so we’ve got little over $400 million I think $435 million will be disclosed in the Q today of exposure that will get re-priced that whatever that new rate is so that’s mostly in cash but it’s -- so that will be effect on that line.
And then the next question is again what price are you allowed to sell at so when you have that level of currency devaluation typically there is particularly for imported products finished product price adjustments all those prices are controlled by the Venezuelan government so there would be application for price increases depending on how those go and what level of prices you’re able to charge would determine on whether you’re going to be able to bring in imported products or not or even bringing imported raw materials and convert it to finished products.
And so we take a look at that environment and try to come up with a business plan that made sense.
But again you kind of come back to the key driver of it is whatever rate they pick are you going to get exposure or access to U.S.
dollars to be able to pay for the materials and products that you need to sell in that market.
And so we’ll work through that whenever those decisions are made by the Venezuelan government.
Okay thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you could speak to the acquisition environment obviously the step up in the share repurchase expectations for this year is fairly pronounced.
And so I just wondered if that indicated anything about what you’re seeing in terms of valuations for potential acquisitions? We are a big acquirer we’ve done some tuck-ins and [indiscernible] actually most of the tuck-ins we’ve done over the years have been in healthcare.
Quite honestly our corporate team has been full consumed with the spend this year and with the -- as well as getting ready for the restructuring.
So we’re out of capacity of human capitals to go look at very many deals.
But we haven’t seen much likely that was of interest to us.
Thank you that’s helpful.
And then just in light of the competitive environment I wondered if you could speak to just the kind of your assessment of your overall distribution? And if there are areas of opportunity to further extend distribution of your products into specific channels that would be helpful? Sure and the interesting thing is around the world they’re all different kinds of channel migrations occurring so you continue to see the traditional retailers for our consumer products but we’re also seeing more ecommerce in markets like China and Korea that’s growing very rapidly and is taking a bigger and bigger share of the category.
In markets like Argentina there are small panulerras neighborhood diaper stores that are growing rapidly in China there is these baby stores with a high end diaper baby clothing baby formula kind of a store that’s a very prolific channel.
So one of our key focus points is to make sure our products are available wherever mom wants to buy them and make sure that we get the right offer and the right mix of products on sale and really is tracking those channels and staying connected to mom digitally and finding out where she wants to buy how she wants to buy has been a key opportunity for us and been a lot of fun for our marketing teams to be able to work on that.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
My first question actually follows on just what you were discussing in terms of distribution and ecommerce.
I feel like I’d love to get some color on what efforts you're making in the U.S.
because I feel like a cross both baby care and also the tissue business you’re probably bit under exposed in ecommerce channels could you discuss what you are doing if anything to sort of to change that?  Yes sure I'd say while ecommerce is certainly -- we were a little bit late to the party in the U.S.
we’re probably ahead of the curve in markets like China and Brazil and Argentina and others fully competitive in Korea and places like that.
So we’re catching up in the U.S.
and have got a good relationship with many of the large ecom players both in the traditional brick and mortar retailers that are going in that space the Wal-Mart’s and Targets and Sam’s Clubs and Costcos of the world as well as Amazon and diapers.com and places like that.
And clearly all of the ecom retailers just like our traditional retailers want the young family as a loyal customer and because of the basket size that those shopper suddenly begin to buy and the lifetime value of that is really important to them and so we worked a lot on that front.
Tissue and -- we’re present the logistics of that and the cost of distribution a higher bulk lower value item the last mile to a consumer home isn't as obvious although there is some activity going on in that space and we’re working with our ecommerce partners to try to figure out where does that make sense and how do we do it most efficiently.
We’re interestingly doing probably more work now with adult care and so depends and poise are probably areas where you would see a little bit more consumer discretion and you might have a desire to send the product as a care giver to a family member and so there is a kind of a natural opportunity for us to be able to use that and make it easy for consumers to get the products that they need in that market online.
Still very small and early days but there is a lot of activity happening there.
Okay great.
And then also on adult care also small and early days I was hoping you could discuss the impressive test market and I am guessing also very early but anything you can share on that would be really interesting? Yes I mean we think that’s an interesting idea and could be a very exciting product it's very early days in the test so we don’t have a lot of data to even read yet.
But we’ll see what happens and hopefully we’ll have something to talk about as it comes through the test next year sometime.
And how are you going about just spreading word of mouth on that because I think new --not necessarily new to world but new to the over the counter consumer market and I think education and awareness is a huge piece of it has that even being viable.
So what are the plans? We have a long tradition of talking about new categories in different ways as you look at coming out.
We were the first to talk about feminine protection with Kotex back in the 1920s and then depend and talking about incontinence in the 1980s.
And so I think you’ll expect to see with all the new digital tools that we got available opportunities.
There we were also connecting with the appropriate medical community as well that with the logical recommenders of product forms like this.
So they are exploring some of those different avenues in the test and we’ll see which of those have the biggest return and move the needle and then we’ll try to do more of that as we think about launching.
This maybe a product that takes a bit of time to build and we’ll see how that plays out in terms of consumer behavior change.
Okay great.
And last thing is just very subtle and I think I picked this up correctly that you talked about Russia and Eastern Europe as a bucket rather than just being Russia and why the change? Well we've actually whenever we’ve said Russia before it always included Eastern Europe it's just Eastern Europe was pretty small and has gotten bigger that we thought we should get them into headline so our business in the Ukraine has actually also doing really well.
Our business in the stans the Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Uzbekistan Turkmenistan Azerbaijan all those countries that none of us have visited very often those -- that part of the world has also grown nicely and it's new geography for us and so we’re going in and building a good business there on the collection of that is actually delivered quite a bit of growth this year.
Okay.
So those numbers are comparable it's just giving Eastern Europe.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
(Multiple speakers) to talk about a little bit more.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hello.
Good morning everyone.
I have a follow up on China Russia and Brazil.
You mentioned that category growth is still at least high single-digit.
So if you could tell us whether this is actual volume growth or is it inflationary pricing whether you are seeing still trade up I mean what part of if you can help us understand in these three markets whether you are seeing a still consumers trading up or is it trade down because of the difficult economies.
Could you give us a little bit more of a view of the customer in these three markets? Yes I think a good way to think about all of these markets is that you are still seeing GDP per capital go up in all of these markets.
As the middle class builds and builds and more people are employed and are able to enter the middle class and afford our products so even if they have a downtick in their GDP growth rate the GDP per capita is still increasing at a descent rate and that’s fueling the expansion of consumable categories.
And so I'd say the three markets are pretty different and that's since China there hasn’t been much price.
You typically are seeing consumers’ trade ups so the lower tiers are moving up into the upper tiers.
The golden baby phenomenon is still very much alive or mom wants the very best products for her baby and so you’re seeing more rapid growth in e-Commerce in China.
So if you looked at Nielsen numbers you wouldn’t see that kind of category growth rate but if you -- it's in precise data in China is difficult to get but our guess is that you’d see high single low double digit growth in the category with very little price.
In the case of Russia and Brazil both there was some price this year and so Paul I don’t if you’ve got any more detailed numbers but in the high single double digit -- double digit growth in both in Russia you probably had half of that was price I'd guess in the period and not everybody took it not at the same time.
And there has some innovation in launching diaper pants that is a premium price offering that the consumer has traded up into and so you are seeing some mix improvements in both Brazil and Russia.
But both also got some price to offset currency that was a factor in the category growth.
And when it comes to -- that is very helpful Tom actually when it comes to what Unicharm is doing in Brazil is it similar to what it is in China? Is it super premium product? Or is it different? It's a super-premium product and it’s actually priced quite a bit higher than everything else in the market and so far hasn’t gotten much traction at least in the measured shared data.
Both Procter launched aggressively as did we every kind of diaper pant we know how to make and occupied I think all of the [indiscernible] positioning that Unicharm might want to go do and so we never take them for granted or underestimate them but so far our defense plans in Brazil have been working pretty well.
And finally if I may on Mexico which is completely different from the dynamics in Russia China and Brazil could you explain us a little bit of what’s happening? Why the JV income profits are down by some much? What is it pricing environment could you explain that better? Thank you.
Those -- Pablo Gonzalez will be hosting a call on Thursday we'll then go in more detail on their numbers.
So I don’t want to scoop in too much.
But I’d say it’s been a continuation of the trend where it’s been a slower growing economy than was predicted that’s showed up in slower growth in lots of categories and more investment in price to try to simulate category growth and I think that hasn’t been fully effective.
So we’ve invested in price which has hurt the top line and hurt profitability to hold and stabilize share positions which we’ve been successful at doing.
But it’s been a much more challenging economic environment I think they’ve had commodity cost inflation as well and a little weaker peso so it’s been -- they’ve had a number of factors that have combined to suppress their results from what they’re hoping for this year.
But Pablo can give you more color on that on Thursday.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
My favorite topic toilet paper in the U.S.
it seems like there is a price war that’s kind of emerging I mean how problematic do you see that being because I know your pricing has been negative at least in the scan channels for a while but it seems like P&amp;G has finally kind of bit the bullet and taken their pricing down pretty substantially in the last three or four months so do these trends continue and kind of where does it end because like the latest round of data was actually pretty damming in terms of substantial sequential price cuts so any commentary there would be appreciated? I mean the investment level certainly picked up in the late second and early third quarter and we matched up to it in the third quarter and you saw that in our price numbers.
We also saw it in pretty good volume performance when I look at the overall margins in our consumer tissue business and the uptick that we got in the quarter this is a kind of near-term high watermark for us.
So I’d say we’re balancing the marketing mix and driving the premium variance where we can and investing in price to make sure we’re competitive on future price points.
And that’s kept the momentum going in that business which obviously we’re watching what P&amp;G and GP cope to in this environment but we’re weathering the strong reasonably well.
Great thanks and then just the 45% of KCI that’s not LATAM Russia and China it looks its growing low single digits and I am assuming that those three are up like 17% or something at quarter so what’s the story there? I mean it’s an opportunity to accelerate growth in those markets.
I know Australia is kind of slowing growing market in South Korea is probably the same but is there anything else there that is perhaps an opportunity or threat? I’d say Korea is actually on track with their plan this year.
Again but it is a slower growth market than a lot of the rest of Asia.
Australia you paint that one correctly and now we’ll have some big currency headwinds in the fourth quarter as they roll forward.
The rest of Latin America is mixed bag and in Costa Rica and Central America is a little bit more developed had a little bit more competition in the quarter so we’re working on some things on that front.
But I’d say Australia and Korea are by far the two big players in the balance of KCI that we talked about.
Great thanks so much.
And then one last final the call has gone a long time the growth rate in diapers in Brazil is like half in the latest periods.
Do you know what’s driving that because it was sort of like pretty substantial like 20%-ish range and I fell to like 10% 11%? Do you know if it’s like a temporary spiders or something more sinister going on there? No I mean it’s a more competitive environment.
So everybody is spending money like crazy Proctor is spending aggressively we are as well Unicharm is launching.
And so I would say delivering double digit growth in that environment has been a pretty solid performance especially against a weaker economic backdrop which probably hasn’t helped on that front.
And we’ve had a terrific performance in fem care in Brazil.
And so there is a lot of good things happening in that business overall that we’re pretty happy with.
Mr.
Paul at this time we have no other questioners.
All right thanks for all the questions today.
And we’ll wrap up with quick comment from Tom.
Once again solid execution with greater results in K-C International lots of opportunities as we spin Halyard so congratulations to the Halyard team.
And we look forward to the successful transaction completed in the end of next week.
And once again thank you all for your support at Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes this morning’s presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding and we now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask an audio question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today’s first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark’s year-end earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Now here is the agenda for the call.
Mark will begin with a review of our 2014 results focusing mostly on the full year.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and then address the [indiscernible] and we’ll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investors section of our website.
That presentation and this morning’s news release both include our detailed planning assumptions for 2015.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We’ll also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning’s news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I’ll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning.
Let’s start with the headlines for the year.
First we generated mid-single digit growth in organic sales and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations.
Second we improved our margins boosted by significant cost savings; and third we delivered another strong performance managing our balance sheet.
Now let’s cover the details of our results.
Fourth quarter sales were $4.8 billion down one point versus prior year.
That brought full-year sales to $19.7 billion up one point compared to 2013.
If we exclude currency and restructuring impacts our organic sales were up 3% for the quarter and 4% for the full year.
Our momentum in KC International continues to be strong as organic sales were up 7% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the full year.
Fourth quarter adjusted gross margin was 33.9% with the full year at 34.3% - that’s up 20 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating margin was 15.9% in the fourth quarter 16.1% for the full year - that’s up 70 basis points compared to the prior year.
I was really encouraged to see our operating margins up in North America in Europe and in KC International.
We delivered $320 million of force cost savings in 2014.
That’s the second-highest amount we’ve ever achieved.
We expect another strong year in 2015 with a savings target of at least $300 million for the year.
In addition we expect to deliver $60 million to $80 million in savings from our 2014 organizational restructuring program.
We absorbed $240 million of input cost inflation in 2014.
Currencies were also a drag on earnings.
Translation was a $75 million negative and transaction effects were also unfavorable.
Equity income was down 29% in 2014 and that’s well below our original plan for the year.
That was driven by performance in KC de Mexico which continues to face challenging economic and competitive conditions in Mexico.
Because the Mexican peso has depreciated significantly over the last few months we now expect that equity income will be down somewhat year-on-year in 2015.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.35 bringing the full year to $5.51.
That’s up 5% year-on-year.
That growth is consistent with the 4% to 7% target we set at the beginning of 2014.
Our overall capital management was strong in 2014 as well.
We continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
Cash from operations was healthy at $2.8 billion although we were down somewhat year-on-year.
Comparisons were impacted by higher tax payments and transaction costs related to our spin-off of the healthcare business.
We reduced primary working capital in 2014 with a seven-day improvement in our cash conversion cycle.
Return on invested capital improved nicely climbing 160 basis points to 19.1% for the year.
We returned $3.3 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends in 2014 and for 2015 we expect to repurchase $800 million to $1 billion of KMB stock.
Regarding the dividend we expect a mid-single digit increase this year consistent with our growth and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2014.
So now let me briefly recap segment results for the year.
In personal care organic sales rose 6% continuing our track record of delivering strong growth in this segment.
Full-year operating margins were solid at 18.7% - that’s an increase of 90 basis points.
Moving to consumer tissue organic sales were up 2%.
Operating margins of 16% were up 110 basis points driven by cost savings and higher net selling prices.
Lastly KC Professional organic sales increased 4% operating margins were a healthy 17.8% although they were down slightly year-on-year.
Now I want to cover two additional topics and I’ll start with Venezuela.
As you’d expect we’ve been closely monitoring events and conditions in the country for some time.
Given the increased uncertainty and inconsistent liquidity at the end of the year we decided to move from measuring results at the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars per U.S.
dollar to using the government SICAD II floating exchange rate.
The SICAD II rate has been trading at about 50 bolivars per dollar recently.
As a result of this change we re-measured our year-end balance sheet in Venezuela at the SICAD II rate with a resulting charge to earnings of $462 million.
Looking ahead for 2015 using the SICAD II rate to translate results in Venezuela will reduce total company sales by about 3% and adjusted operating profit by about 4%.
Now to wrap up starting next quarter we’ll be making a small change in how we talk about our businesses outside of North America.
As you know we’ve spent the last year bringing our European operations together with our KC International organization.
That integration is right on track and as a result starting next quarter we’ll describe our businesses outside of North America in two groups: developing and emerging markets and developed markets and that will replace KC International in Europe.
Developing and emerging markets will comprise Eastern Europe the Middle East and Africa Latin America and Asia Pacific and will exclude Australia and South Korea.
Developed markets will consist of western and central Europe Australia and South Korea.
So for some perspective in 2014 our D&amp;E markets business represented 33% of our company sales 30% if you take into account the currency rate change in Venezuela.
The business generated organic sales growth of 11% excluding Venezuela and improved operating margins year-on-year.
We expect high single digit to low double digit organic growth in 2015 for our developing and emerging markets business.
Our developed markets business was approximately 21% of company sales in 2014.
Organic sales were up 1% with healthy and improving operating margins.
That wraps up my comments and I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I’ll share my perspective on our full-year 2014 results and then I’ll address our outlook for 2015.
So let’s start with 2014.
We delivered on our financial commitments while making strategic changes to further improve our company.
As Mark just mentioned our organic sales grew 4% in 2014 and that was right in line with our long-term target.
KC International had another great year including excellent progress with our key growth initiatives.
For example in our diaper business in KCI organic sales were up 25% in Eastern Europe 25% in China and 10% in Brazil.
We continue to benefit from innovation in these markets and in China Huggies diapers are now sold in 105 cities and that’s up from just 90 cities at the end of 2013.
We’re targeting to be in 115 cities by the end of this year.
Our feminine care organic sales rose as a double-digit rate in KC International.
We continue to grow our brands and launch innovations in this category around the world.
Our adult care organic sales were also up double digits in KCI and baby wipes rose high single digits.
Elsewhere in KC International our KC Professional sales organic sales were up double digits.
This is now a billion-dollar business for us with attractive margins so we’ll be making additional investments in this part of our portfolio to drive further growth in the future.
Moving to our North American consumer business we generated solid sales growth and launched innovations on several brands in 2014.
That included Viva towels Goodnites youth pants Huggies baby wipes and our Poise and Depend adult care brands.
Our North American market shares were up or even with the prior year in six of the eight categories that we track.
One of our businesses had a soft year in North America and that was mainline Huggies diapers.
To improve our performance in 2015 we will be making investments in innovation marketing and relative value to key competition.
Turning to KC Professional in North America we delivered high single digit volume growth in safety products while volumes were down in washroom.
We have made some investments to be more competitive in this category and with better execution and an improving U.S.
economy we expect to drive more growth in this business in 2015.
Mark’s already highlighted how we continue to manage our company with financial discipline so I’ll just add that I’m pleased with our cost savings our margin improvement and our cash returns to shareholders during the year.
I’m also pleased that we delivered on our bottom line growth target in a challenging environment.
We also made some important strategic changes to the business this past year.
We successfully executed the spin-off of our healthcare business and that’s allowed both Kimberly-Clark and Halyard Health to further increase focus on their own strategies.
We initiated our 2014 organization restructuring.
This will help us improve our efficiency will offset the impact of stranded overhead costs from the spin-off and will increase our flexibility to invest in future growth.
We expect to make significant progress with this program in 2015.
We also completed our European strategic changes initiative and we are realizing the benefits we expected.
Over the past two years our European consumer business has increased operating profit by 10% and improved operating margin by 300 basis points and we’re growing volumes in our high margin childcare and baby wipes businesses.
So all in all I’m encouraged with our accomplishments in 2014 and our teams are focused on driving further improvements going forward.
Now let’s move to our outlook for 2015.
The environment has become significantly more volatile recently particularly with currency rates and commodity cost so planning in this environment has become much more dynamic.
Regardless our teams continue to focus on our global business plan strategies and the fundamentals that create long-term shareholder value.
In 2015 we’ll leverage our brands our growth initiatives our innovations and marketing investments to drive organic sales growth.
We’ll deliver healthy levels of cost savings to improve our margins and fund reinvestments in the business and we’ll generate strong cash flow improve our return on invested capital and allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
In terms of our specific 2015 targets on the top line we expect organic sales growth of 3% to 5%.
We’ll continue to focus on driving rapid growth in personal care and KC Professional and developing in emerging markets.
We will launch innovations throughout our businesses.
Near-term activity in North America will include upgrades on Huggies diapers Huggies baby wipes and in our adult care business.
Internationally we’ll introduce new or improved products across a number of categories.
To support our innovations and growth initiatives our advertising spending should be up somewhat as a percent of sales.
On the bottom line we’re targeting adjusted earnings per share in the range of $5.60 to $5.80.
That’s up 2% to 5% compared to adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2014.
Similar to this past year we expect that earnings in 2015 will be higher in the second half of the year as compared to the first half of the year.
Like other multinational companies we’re facing significant currency headwinds.
Including the rate change in Venezuela we expect that translation effects will reduce our sales by 8% to 9% and reduce earnings by 9% to 10%.
Adding in transaction effects currency is likely to hurt our bottom line by more than 15% in 2015.
On the commodity front the outlook has improved some in the past three months but at this point we are not planning for a big commodity windfall.
Oil-based costs have started to fall recently but not nearly as much as the drop in oil prices.
We expect pulp costs including secondary fiber to be similar to last year or even up slightly.
We’re also assuming that local inflation will continue in some of our international markets.
Adding it all up our plan assumes cost deflation in 2015 of zero to $150 million.
At the midpoint that’s only a two point benefit to the bottom line so the primary ways that we’ll offset currency headwinds will be by raising selling prices where we can delivering cost savings and controlling our overhead spending.
We will continue to focus on cash generation and capital allocation in 2015.
Cash provided by operations should be similar to 2014 or perhaps up somewhat despite the lost cash flow from the spun-off healthcare business.
We expect to allocate at least $2.1 billion to dividends and share repurchases in 2015.
That represents a cash return of about 5% based on our current market capitalization.
So in summary we delivered on our growth targets in 2014 while making strategic changes to improve our company.
We continue to focus on the fundamentals that drive our long-term performance and we remain optimistic about our prospects to generate attractive shareholder returns.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and now we’ll begin to take your questions.
[Operator instructions] Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hi.
A few questions for you.
One I wanted to dig a little bit deeper into North American consumer tissue given the price mix was down quite a bit.
I get that you’re rolling off the sheeting I get that there is competitors in the marketplace Georgia Pacific in particular that was aggressive.
But can you tell us a little bit of how you think it should go forward? You said pricing actions.
I wanted to get a sense of what you think that should look like going forward and if you can give us any more detail if it is a capacity issue - I know we’ve all heard about [indiscernible] capacity coming online if there’s anything around that that you think is more sustainable from a pressure downwards.
Yes I guess the way I’d look at this Ali is probably the fourth quarter was more of a year-on-year impact than timing of promotions.
If you looked at it sequentially I’d say tissue pricing in the market was pretty similar third quarter to fourth quarter; and again we wouldn’t see a big swing going forward so I’d say second half was a little bit more competitive than first half but pulp prices have been pretty stable and aren’t moving around very much so there’s not a lot of driver for competitive pricing at this point in time.
Okay so the capacity issue is not an issue it sounds like so no change there? I mean I think industry operating rates are still hovering around 90% so that may be down a tick.
As we look at the industry capacity increase in 2015 it looks like there’s maybe net 1% additional capacity coming online.
That’s pretty much what the market grows every year so there is not a huge imbalance at this point in time.
So I’d say we’re cautiously optimistic about how that will play out.
Okay two other ones one on Venezuela.
Just wanted to get a sense of what’s changed over the past several months that makes you change the way you’re accounting for it and moreover as we look at it going forward how much historically w whether it be between consumer tissue or personal care you are benefiting from price mix from Venezuela that affects KCI and we see good price mix in Latin America for example for PC how much of that was Venezuela and how we should expect that going forward.
So what’s different and then kind of going forward on the Venezuela pulling out from a price perspective.
Yes you know I think it’s something that Mark and I have been spending a lot of time watching and working with Elane Stock and the KC International team to kind of monitor what’s going on on the ground in Venezuela.
Really if you look at what happened with the oil price shock and that economy is so dependent on oil we really expected probably some other deflation or devaluation action to happen and we got to the end of the year and felt like it was the right thing to do to move to a rate that was maybe more reflective of economic reality on the ground.
We’re still getting foreign exchange at the 6-3 rate but translating in our U.S.
dollar results felt like we should use a rate that was a little closer to the economic reality so something that we spent a lot of time thinking about and talking about in the fourth quarter.
But the drop in oil prices certainly made a difference.
It’s also a key that we--you know as we said in the last call that we’ve kept our U.S.
dollar exposure there and so we started to take some down time in the country due to lack of foreign exchange and that also was a factor in our decision.
In terms of the impact on Venezuela it’s been about a one point tailwind to KCI growth if you look at it in total or if you took Venezuela out of the KCI growth rate it’d probably drop by about a point if that makes sense.
It does help.
So last question and it’s something I asked a little while ago a few years ago actually and I just want to revisit it and get your point of view again which is 2014 dividend plus repurchase was $3.3 billion which was very impressive.
But yet again that was higher than your free cash flow as it has been for the past several years and it sounds like back of the envelope it will probably be the same type of return to shareholders higher than your free cash flow in 2015 as well.
I want to get a sense of how you think about that especially as you describe in a more volatile environment and whether it’s sustainable.
Yes that’s a good question.
In 2014 basically the difference was the Halyard dividend and so as part of the spin we pulled the Halyard dividend out so that boosted us up to the top end.
But Mark maybe you want to give a little bit more color on 2015 and how you’re thinking about that.
Yes Ali I think it’s a fair assessment.
As the company grows we’ve grown our balance sheet a little bit in line but our target is to be a solid single-A credit.
Heading into the year we expect free cash flow to equal dividends and share repurchases.
This year coming into the year our outlook was to increase debt just a little bit associated with the healthcare spin and we felt we had a little bit of capacity.
But there’s nothing changed about our target to be a solid single-A and we watch those metrics pretty closely.
Okay thanks for all the answers.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
So I guess you’re looking for one to two points of pricing in ’15.
You did about two in ’14.
I guess I’d like to get a sense of your confidence level that you’ll be able to take incremental pricing especially in light of where crude is sitting from a competitive standpoint and how much of that maybe is follow-through pricing that you’ve already taken like how much is incremental pricing in ’15.
Yes good question.
So a fair amount of it is follow-through and it’s not going to be broadly based so it’s going to be targeted in key markets.
Where you’ve seen big currency moves like Russia Argentina you’ll see a disproportionate amount of pricing in markets like that.
If you see a market like Australia where you’ve had currency weakness or the euro zone where you’ve seen currency weakness it will be much tougher to get pricing in those markets and I think the commodity factor that you mentioned as well will make it more difficult.
But in a market like Russia you could see double-digit mid-teens kinds of pricing in Russia and Eastern Europe just because of the shock that you’ve seen to currencies in those markets.
I guess more specifically I think in the personal care KCI blurb in the press release you talked about Brazil volume being down there and relating it to pricing.
Is that the risk--I mean volume fell off pretty markedly I guess in KCI without a lot of incremental pricing relative to last quarter.
Could you talk about that risk a little bit? Yes I mean Brazil we took some pricing on November 1 and so we had a little bit of a late third quarter early fourth quarter buy-in ahead of that so it was a little softer in the end of the quarter as a result of that.
We were probably--year-over-year our promotional timing was not quite as heavily back end-loaded so I’d say overall we felt pretty good about our volume in Brazil being up double digits in diapers for the year.
We’ve got great momentum and innovation coming and I’m expecting them to have a very solid year in 2015.
Thanks.
Just lastly real quick the mainline Huggies diapers obviously that’s where you’ve been losing share.
You commented on it and one of the things you noted I guess was adjusting relative value to key customers or versus competition.
Could you talk about how big a piece price will be to what you end up doing in mainline diapers and what kind of timeframe you expect that at? Yes I think value as you know Chris is a combination of performance and price so we’ll make sure that we’re competitive in our promotion calendar that we’ve got the right amount of display activity that we’re executing it well at retail.
So I wouldn’t expect anything major from a list price standpoint; it’s really more of just making sure we’re executing and more competitive with at least our fair share of display activities at competitive prices in-store and then we’ll have some product news as well coming with some mainline improvements in late first quarter and additional improvements coming during the year just to make sure we get off to a better start and have a much better year on Huggies in 2015.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thanks.
Appreciate it.
On commodities most of your assumptions are ahead of where current spot rates and external estimates are.
Broadly speaking I understand that many forecasters guess that prices will stabilize higher for oil but can you give more color on your other forecasts including pulp and also what you’re thinking in terms of resin? Yes from a pulp standpoint and secondary fiber it’s looking fairly stable in the outlook.
I mean they see some--we’ve actually in recent weeks seen eucalyptus going up a little bit and northern softwood coming down a little bit secondary fiber has been pretty firm - it’s maybe trended down just a bit but our outlook for both of those is to be pretty stable during the year.
They don’t seem to be affected as much by some of the big currency moves maybe as they have been in the past and the underlying supply-demand balance has been fairly stable and even tight in some grades of pulp and in some markets for secondary fiber.
So on the polymer side we would say that over time it generally follows oil.
It seems to be a little slower at this point in time and there’s been some supply constraints on polypropylene which we use a lot of that has held pricing up a little bit more than maybe you would expect.
That one’s been the toughest one to forecast and there aren’t as many good forecasting services out there for that.
There is a little bit of a forward market but it’s not that reliable and not that heavily traded.
So we’d expect us to get some benefit on that zero to 150 million of cost deflation and polymer is a pretty good chunk of that but that’s the harder one to call for the year probably.
How have your discussions with retailers gone particularly in the U.S.
given what has happened with prices at the pump? Well with the fourth quarter we still had $55 million of cost inflation in our quarter so we still had polymer and other materials going up $30 million pulp was still up $15 million distribution costs unrelated to fuel surcharges but just rates were up $15 million.
So we haven’t had any deflation yet to talk about so I think at this point they’re all watching it closely but it hasn’t been that noisy at this stage.
The other perspective I’d add Olivia is that as inflation has been moderate for the last few years we really haven’t recouped that on the way up so that may help us if costs go down a little bit in 2015.
Got it thanks.
Just if I could follow up with one quick question on the organic sales you guys give that by key emerging markets.
You gave for the full year but can you give it to us for Q4? Yes are you referring to the diaper business Olivia? Right diapers - Brazil Eastern Europe - exactly.
Yes so China was up almost 30% in the fourth quarter in diapers Eastern Europe was up about 25% and Brazil was down slightly due to the pricing action Tom described.
Got it thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmidt with Deutsche Bank.
Hey guys good morning.
Just had a few questions.
So was there any pre-buy ahead of all these price increases especially in Eastern Europe and Russia that might have impacted things a little bit on the volume side in the quarter? Not so much in Eastern Europe and some of their pricing--they’ve been getting pricing all year and there’s some more going in in the first quarter.
As we talked about in Brazil there was some forward buy that probably boosted late third quarter very early fourth quarter and then it was a little lighter in November and December in Brazil.
Okay thanks.
Then did you exit Italy because I didn’t see a press release but I looked at some of the Nielsen data and it looks like volumes there are down 30 40%.
No we’re still selling in Italy in diapers and in tissue so.
I haven’t seen that in the Nielsen data.
I’d say our business was a little softer in the fourth quarter but it wasn’t to that extent.
Okay and then as I look at the raw material guidance the zero to $150 million you kind of look at the different pieces maybe I’ll just confirm some of the assumptions.
But I thought that every dollar move in oil was $6 million to EBIT and then you gave us the other assumptions on polypropylene and super-absorbers and the numbers I’m getting to are significantly higher than your zero to $150 million so I’m just trying to figure out where I’m wrong.
Yes those are the rules of thumb we’ve given.
Those rules of thumb aren’t working right at the moment so I think eventually they’ll probably work but it’s going to take a little longer for it to flow through the pipe at this point in time.
So yeah you would expect that over time if oil stays at this level for an extended period of time that you’ll see more of that flow through but it’s not going to happen at this point in the first half.
We may get a little bit more as the year progresses - we’ll see but at this point based on what we know we’re not calling for that windfall to flow through at the same level as our traditional rules of thumb would have indicated.
Yes the reason I bring it up is that if oil really is--just oil alone is $6 million per dollar move that alone should be $225 million next year right? If you got it all in one year but it’s got to flow through adhesives and packaging materials and that’s just taking a little longer at this point in time.
We’ve seen nowhere near that kind of drop-off in the cost of polymer at this point.
It’s come down modestly and as we said in the fourth quarter we still had inflation in those material areas so we didn’t see any benefit yet at this stage.
Okay.
Not to keep belaboring this but oil is exclusive to the polypropylene and the natural gas right so oil is the $6 million and then it’s the different buys also in the different raw materials - is that correct? So I’m not double counting in terms of the $6 million right? The oil--the rule of thumb that we’ve given you was intended to kind of roughly cover all of our oil-based materials.
We don’t have that much direct oil exposure at all.
Okay all right.
That makes sense.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Could we go back to the North American diaper situation? Your volumes have been pretty weak for a while.
Have you started to take any of the actions that you’re talking about and as you think of your plan for 2015 how concerned are you that with a potential deflationary environment the competitive environment is only going to get worse? I’d say that’s started to take some of the competitive action yet; but it takes a lot longer to effect retail or promotion plans so much of that work was started in ’14 and will play out in ’15.
So a little bit better in late fourth quarter but it didn’t show up much in the numbers.
We know it’s a competitive environment out there.
It has been and we’re going to be competing harder and we’ve anticipated that there will be some competitive response in our outlook.
Okay.
Can you talk a little bit about what you’re seeing in private label? Obviously Amazon made some noise earlier this week as well as a few weeks ago.
Are you seeing any incremental or less pressure there? I would say the Amazon thing was kind of here and gone fairly quickly so that one didn’t have much of an impact in the marketplace.
It probably generated more media interest than consumer interest I would say.
Private label shares didn’t do much this year so you’re seeing more of the activity probably has been with Luvs and the value segment has been where more of the action has been this year in terms of share growth.
All right.
Can you talk a little bit about North American [inco] just kind of your latest thoughts on how Procter’s return to the market is playing out? Yes I think they’ve done pretty well on the light end the part that would compete with Poise.
They’ve probably--I think they’ve picked up seven share points.
I’d say we’ve lost our fair share but have defended pretty effectively in terms of promotion; and the category has grown a little bit so our volume actually was flat overall in the quarter despite a big competitive launch.
We’ve done better on the Depend end of the spectrum where we really haven’t lost any share and have done well in that segment of it.
We’ve got more innovation coming in that space and feel pretty good about our business around the world.
As we noted we’ve had double-digit growth in adult care globally as well so it’s an exciting category on trend and we’re going to keep driving hard to get at least our fair share of the growth there.
Our next question comes from John Faucher from JP Morgan.
Good morning.
Just want to talk a little bit about the view on the promotional environment.
This came up a little bit but right now given how the competitive environment is looking the balance between marketing spend and trade promotion do you feel like you’re in the right situation there and have you seen any risk of any of the competitors maybe tilting a little bit more towards promotion in advance of some of the raw material benefits flowing through? Then also can you just talk a little bit about some of the timing of some of your innovation in terms of how we should see that playing out over the course of the year? Thanks.
Sure.
On the trade versus strategic I think it’s a little early at this point in time because there hasn’t been much deflation that’s made it into anybody’s P&amp;L yet.
On the tissue side you certainly haven’t seen pulp costs come down significantly if at all so that’s not really driving anything there.
You’re not seeing it really either on the personal care side that would be driven by oil particularly so it’s not a factor at this stage and we feel pretty good about our mix of marketing spend going into 2015.
We’re trying to make sure we can drive even better performance off the trade money that we spend so we’d love to drive more volume for the same investment by executing it better at retail and coming up with the right strategic price points the right kinds of display activity that tie into the things that retailers are supportive of so we want to get better at that around the world where we can.
So I think from an innovation standpoint you’ll see some of the diaper stuff happen in first quarter.
There’s some adult care activity that’s happening in the first half as well so pretty strong calendar around the world but quite a few things getting started already early in the year.
Great thanks.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment in diaper pants? I know that’s been a place where in emerging markets you seem to be a bit ahead of the game but Procter talked about launching a new and improved in the second half of the year so just curious if you see any change in dynamics in that category in terms of share or even a deceleration in the diaper pants segment as the economies in emerging markets have been a bit tougher.
Thanks.
Yes that’s been a pretty exciting business around the world and really we’ve been a strong player but also Unicharm and Kao two Japanese competitors--you know in Japan diaper pants are the majority of the diaper category and they’ve got terrific products so we’ve been competing with them for some time.
We have been launching diaper pants pretty aggressively around the world and Procter has recently kind of entered that part of the category both in China and Russia and a few other places - Brazil so there’s a lot going on there.
It’s really a strong source of category growth everywhere.
Not seeing it slow down at this point in time.
I think it will be interesting to see what happens in markets like Russia with the economic activity that’s playing out there but at this point it didn’t seem to slow anything down significantly in the fourth quarter so we’ll watch that one closely going forward.
Great.
Also just on Russia you talked about mid-teens kind of pricing but still had really strong volume.
Are you anticipating that volume decelerates because of the pricing or do you think the consumer is going to be able to bear the pricing? This is a bit of uncharted territory.
If Russia and some of the other eastern European economies decline by mid-single digits which is what some of the forecasters say we’ll see how that plays out in terms of consumer purchasing power.
At this point our momentum looks pretty good.
Our team over there is pretty motivated and while the size of the P&amp;L is going to wiggle around with the exchange rates they are really focused on improving the shape of the P&amp;L and making sure they take market share they drive their innovation hard they’re improving their margins trying to get pricing where they can and come out of it with a much stronger market position as the crisis starts to move forward.
Okay.
Then just finally on KC Professional and kind of the cyclical exposure to an improving U.S economy in your comments it sounded a little bit like there is some investment in price necessary so can you talk about in what segments of business that might be and has that been holding the business back thus far? It’s probably typically been to hold some lower tier volume where we’ve had to make some price investments to make sure we were competitive so that’s probably one soft spot.
We’re trying to not chase low margin business but there are some strategic pieces of business that you have a fuller range of products in that you might be more competitive on washroom if you’ve got their safety and wiper business.
But broadly secondary fiber prices actually have continued to go up so there have been some industry price increases still in that market as well so that’s offsetting the kind of price drag to be competitive in some markets with some customers as well.
But overall we think that KCP and we’ve talked to our distributors they’re looking to have a better 2015 as the U.S.
economy continues to recover and employment levels are pretty good so they’re a little bit more bullish than they were a year ago.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Erin Lash from Morningstar.
Thank you for taking my question.
A lot of my questions have been answered at this point but I was wondering - and you kind of alluded to this a little bit earlier - but I was wondering with regards to just the logistics and transportation costs if you could talk to whether the degree to which truck driver shortages is impacting you to any meaningful degree and offsetting some of that benefit that you might otherwise see from the decline in oil prices.
Yes as we talked in the quarter of our $55 million in cost inflation $15 million was in distribution and virtually all of that was rate increases related to driver availability.
So that has been a big problem for the industry overall and it’s actually caused us some customer service issues in some of our businesses for periods of time where there was an inability to get trucks in certain lanes.
So that’s something that we’ll continue to watch but that certainly was a bigger drag than any benefit we got from lower diesel prices in the quarter.
Got it thank you.
That’s very helpful.
I was wondering if you could just speak to just across your channel exposure if there is any opportunity to further penetrate other alternative outlets - dollar stores or if there’s any areas where you feel you’re under-penetrated to this point.
We try to sell our products wherever mom wants to shop so we’re doing pretty well across the channels.
I think we were probably a little late to ecommerce in the U.S.
- we’re catching up quickly.
We’ve probably been ahead in ecommerce in markets like China where we’re doing quite well there but we’re also trying to make sure--you know there’s a channel of baby stores in China which is very popular that we do well in.
There are small format diaper store in markets like Argentina where they might have 6 000 little tiny mom-and-pop run shops that just sell diapers and baby formula so our customer teams around the world are constantly challenging to say where else is mom looking to shop what’s emerging how do we make sure we get on the front end of it so that we’re there with the right offer.
Thank you that’s helpful.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
I would like to talk about the 2015 forecast for operating profit growth to be up 1% to 4%.
In Slide 27 you basically said that the currency impact including transaction costs is going to be 15%.
So essentially what is the currency-neutral EPS growth that you guys are planning like 20%? You cannot get there even having all the full savings flowing through the P&amp;L having all the restructuring savings going through the P&amp;L and even taking $150 million in commodity benefits.
You don’t get to 20% operating profit growth.
So if you can help me understand this commentary of the currency impact on profits being more than 15% that would be very helpful.
So Javier was that a question or a performance review? I just was-- Well I don’t see how you can grow currency-neutral profits at 20%.
So if you looked at it it kind of--I’d say it’s a fair question.
There are some big moving parts in the P&amp;L maybe more than we’ve seen in the past so if you looked at it in big buckets and said okay currency translation and transaction is probably $500 million to $600 million and if we get the price that we’re talking about of one to two points of price that offsets maybe half of the currency drag.
You get some commodity deflation which is another chunk so if you can get price and commodity deflation that probably offsets two-thirds of the currency translation and transaction.
Then you’ve got to get benefits of volume growth benefits of our cost savings program and our organization restructuring program cover other costs increases and deliver your profit growth year-on-year.
So you’ve got probably bigger buckets of activity moving through the P&amp;L than maybe we’ve had in the past but the math actually works.
So what would it be then the currency-neutral EPS growth that you are forecasting? Well the question would be as you said some of the price we’re getting is because of currency so--and these things if you think about currency commodity costs and price they’re all somewhat related.
So you could look at it in the absolute sense but you might be kidding yourself that you could still get all the price in a currency neutral environment.
But it’s not that currency-neutral EPS growth it’s over 20%? Well as you said if currency translation and transaction is 15-plus and we’re growing our bottom line EPS 2 to 5 you can do the math and add it to the 15 and that’s the underlying growth.
It’s going to come in cost savings volume improvement price mix and commodity deflation.
But do you think that your forecast is conservative or it’s aggressive for 2015 because it seems like everything has to go well to grow EPS 2 to 5%.
Well Javier we usually try to give guidance right down the middle of the fairway that it’s the best estimate we have at this point in time of what we think is going to happen.
I will tell you there is more big moving parts flowing through the P&amp;L so if currency moves suddenly in one direction and we don’t recover quickly enough on price that’s a risk.
On the other hand there have been other questioners on the call saying well gosh what if commodities stay down longer and lower than you thought and you get some benefit? So I think we will do the best we can in the environment we’re in and we’ll give you visibility as we go through the year on how we’re tracking against these big assumptions that we’ve made.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
Hey good morning.
It’s actually Pat Trucchio on the call for Connie.
Just first can you talk about some of the big forest projects for the year? Yes.
We’ve got three big buckets of activity around forest.
One is negotiated material savings and our global procurement group is ramping up again to deliver against that.
They delivered more than $50 million of bottom line benefit in ’14 and are looking to do that or even better in ’15.
Productivity for us is another big opportunity area.
We are driving lean continuous improvement design for value around our organization and are continuing to get benefits from that and would expect that to be another strong contributor.
Then material specification changes so how can we get even more effective on the product design so that we’re giving mom everything that she wants and able to take cost out of design by the choices we make on that front.
So those will be three big factors again and we’d expect that to roll forward to deliver $300 million in cost saves again for another strong year for us.
Pat we probably have 25% of our capital goes to productivity and waste-type cost savings projects as well so in addition to just kind of the way we work we’re also putting some capital behind cost savings and margin improvement.
Okay.
Then lastly how is Poise Impressa doing in tests? Is the test regional or nationwide and is it being expanded? When might the product come to market? Yes that’s really just a test in one market at this point in time in Kansas City.
I haven’t seen the read of the test so far.
They’re testing a lot of different combinations down there so I’ve generally heard it’s going well but I haven’t seen the output and we’ll have final launch plans once we get a read on the test and what exactly we’re going to do with that.
It’s an interesting product and we’ll see where it plays out.
Okay great.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Good morning.
Thanks so much.
I’d just like to understand better what happened in U.S.
diapers.
It just seems a quite dramatic market share loss and volume decline and if you could just--you know maybe see what you hadn’t foreseen because I’m sure this was a lot below your projections.
It was about a point share loss sequentially and I’d say the trend has continued all year.
Essentially Luvs has been the big share gainer - I think Luvs has picked up two share points so far this year.
They’ve been on promotion really every week with a particular key retailer and that’s one that we’ve been working hard to make sure we do better in that particular category with that particular customer.
In the meantime we’re working to drive the business across the country with better product performance making sure we’re competitive on shelf with the right display activity and the right offer.
So it’s really the basics of execution in that business and we didn’t do as good of a job as we needed to in 2014 and we will do a better job in 2015.
It isn’t just about price though? I mean doesn’t it just require you to lower your prices or shift your mix in order to compete? No I mean I think--well value is always a function of performance and price so will we be more competitive on shelf and our promoted pricing? I would expect that will be a part of it but it will also be product improvements and news and innovation that drive mom’s preference in these categories.
So to that point there’s some optimism about the U.S.
consumer.
Do you think that we or are you seeing any signs of consumers being willing to trade up or of demand improving in your U.S.
business? Well when we look at our Huggies super-premium diaper we are seeing that - we’ve picked up probably half a share point this year on our super-premium Huggies diapers in the U.S.
so mom will trade up for real innovation.
We’ve got more innovation coming behind that segment of our line-up as well so it is also focusing on that trade-up consumer.
I wouldn’t say we’ve seen an uptick in the numbers of consumers heading in that direction at this stage but it’s pretty early days in this oil price cycle as well.
And Caroline that’s true across categories.
If you look at super-premium bath it’s growing as a percentage of the category and our share is growing.
Our Viva Vantage launch in the super-premium end of the towel category this year has been a case and continence is largely being driven by the super-premium end of the category.
So even through a tougher economic time the categories are growing not only in the value tier but the super-premium segment as well.
Right.
Okay thank you.
Then just to ask about Russia and getting back to if you take double-digit pricing have you done that already or is that something that’s coming and therefore the demand impact has not been felt? There were multiple price increases during 2014 as the economic crisis unfolded and then there is another wave of pricing coming to that market in early 2015 with the recent fall of the ruble.
So do you think that the price elasticity is well below one-to-one? I think when you see an economic shock like this we’re all going to find out what this consumer is going to do in a negative GDP growth environment.
But in the meantime there’s so much of these products are based on imported raw materials even though we make the diapers in Russia the polypropylene and packaging materials are all dollar-based the pulp is all dollar-based and so you’ve got to get some pricing just to cover the huge shift in the cost of those imported materials in local currency.
Got it.
Then just to your equity income line you talked about Mexico being down because of the peso.
If you were to take out the currency impact would you be--are you seeing a recovery in sort of the local operating dynamics in Mexico or are you still under pressure there? Well I think they saw--Mark and I were just down in Mexico earlier this week and we met with Pablo and Claudio and the team down there.
I think their volume growth or their organic growth was up 5% in the quarter but it was off an easier comp in last year’s fourth quarter.
Their shares are stable - they’re north of 60% in bath and diapers which are their two big categories.
It’s a tough competitive market.
The consumer is still pretty weak.
There’s been lots of reforms down there that have probably affected consumer purchasing power in the short term.
On the other hand they're optimistic that there’s going to be better economic growth and a better consumer environment in the medium to long term.
In the meantime they’ve got a fairly tough peso exchange rate that gives them a little bit of the impact of imported material costs because a lot of their costs are dollar-based as well.
So it’s a challenging environment but we’ve got a very strong position down there and a great team to operate the business.
Thank you.
I have one last one just on China and demand there.
You’ve done just unbelievably well taking share for a lot of years.
Are you seeing anything out there as you head into this year that suggests that the growth is going to slow or that competition has picked up their game online in particular? There’s lots of competition in China and has been for years.
Pretty much every multinational CPG in the world is doing something in China - you know the Japanese are aggressive competitors Proctor is aggressive SCA just bought Vinda which is a local tissue player so they’re in there now in some categories.
So we’ve got a terrific team great innovation and we’re executing pretty well in that market and that has been translating into terrific business results.
So Mike Zhang and our China team and Achal Argawal and our Asia team have done a great job of executing in that market and we feel like we’ve got great momentum and more good things coming.
Thanks so much.
Mr.
Falk at this time we have no further questioners in the queue.
Well once again everyone thank you for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
We had a terrific year in 2014 in executing and delivering great value for our shareholders and we’re headed into a more challenging environment in 2015 but rest assured that our global business plan is pointing us in the right direction.
Thank you again.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines and thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding we now have your presenters in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today’s first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark’s first quarter earnings conference call.
Here with me today in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Mark Buthman Senior VP and CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Now here is the agenda for our call.
Mark will begin with a review of first quarter results Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year.
We’ll finish with Q&amp;A.
We have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investors section of our website.
And as a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We’ll also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning’s release.
The news release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I’ll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Paul and good morning.
Let’s start with some headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 5%.
It was highlighted by 11% growth in developing and emerging markets.
Second we delivered strong cost savings margin improvements and growth in adjusted earnings per share.
And third we continue to allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
So let’s cover the details of our results.
First quarter sales were $4.7 billion down 4% including a nine point drag from currency rates.
Our underlying organic sales rose 5%.
Adjusted gross margin was 35.6% in the first quarter that’s up 140 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating profit was up 7% versus a year ago with an operating margin of 17.4%.
That’s up a 180 basis points compared to the prior year.
I am really encouraged by our margins and our cost savings performance as we start the year.
We delivered $90 million of FORCE cost savings and we are off to a very good start relative to our full year target for savings of at least $300 million.
In addition our organizational restructuring is on track and generated $10 million of savings in the quarter.
Commodities were at $10 million of savings in the quarter.
Commodities were a $10 million benefit in the quarter that’s the first time in more than two years that we experienced cost deflation.
On the other hand we absorbed significant currency headwinds.
The total earnings drag from currency was approximately $0.25 per share or about 19% in the quarter.
On the bottom line first quarter adjusted earnings per share were a $1.42.
That’s a strong start to the year and up 8% compared to last year.
Now turning to cash flow our cash provided by operations in the first quarter was $20 million.
That’s compared to $437 million last year.
The decline was primarily due to higher pension contributions currency effects and operating working capital and the impact of last year’s spin-off of our healthcare business.
In February we made contributions which we financed by a debt offering to our U.S.
pension plan in conjunction with the annuity transaction that we announced.
As a result of these contributions we now expect that cash provided operations in 2015 will be down somewhat year-on-year.
In terms of primary working capital first quarter cash conversion cycle was down seven days compared to full year 2014.
So we are ahead of our three to four day improvement objective for the year.
Now moving to capital allocation first quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled $0.5 billion.
We continue to provide a top tier dividend payout among our peers and in February we announced our 43rd consecutive annual increase in the dividend.
As we mentioned in this morning’s news release in the first quarter we acquired the remaining interest in our subsidiary in Israel for $150 million.
As a result we are now targeting full year share repurchases in a range of $700 million to $900 million.
Full year dividends and share repurchases should be at least $2 billion or about 5% of our current market capitalization.
Now I will highlight a few areas from our segment results for the quarter in Personal Care organic sales rose 6%.
Performance was led by developing and emerging markets with organic sales up 16%.
Overall Personal Care operating margins were 19.7% in the quarter.
That’s up 50 basis points year-on-year.
Moving to Consumer Tissue organic sales were up a point including strong bathroom tissue volumes in North America.
Consumer Tissue operating margins of 18.5% were up 330 basis points year-on-year with a strong cost savings performance and lower between the line spending.
And lastly K-C Professional organic sales increased 7%.
Organic sales were up 8% in developing in emerging markets and 4% in North America.
The total KCP segment top line also benefited from sales of nonwovens to Halyard Health in conjunction with a limited term supply agreement.
Overall KCP margins were 16.9%.
That was even with a year ago.
So that wraps up my comments.
To recap we are off to a strong start in the first quarter led by organic sales growth at the high end of our 3% to 5% full year target.
We delivered strong cost savings improved margins and growth in adjusted earnings per share and we continue to focus on allocating capital in shareholder friendly ways.
Now I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will share my perspectives on our first quarter results and then I will address our full year outlook.
But before I do that some of you may know this is Mark Buthman’s last conference call as CFO for Kimberly-Clark.
We tried to figure this out the other day and we think he has done 49 or 50 of these earnings in a row and that’s an amazing record.
In fact you should know that we had a box of our fine Kleenex facial tissues sitting next to Mark on the table in case just in case a tear appears in the corner of his eye because I know how much he’s going to miss doing these.
But seriously I would like to take a moment just to thank Mark for all the contributions he has made to Kimberly-Clark.
He has been an outstanding Chief Financial Officer and a terrific leader and friend throughout his career.
So I am pleased that Mark will be able to achieve his long-term goal of retiring later this year.
Maria Henry who is an experienced CFO some of you may know her from her work at Hillshire brands will join Kimberly-Clark next Monday and will succeed Mark as Chief Financial Officer and Mark and Maria will work together over the balance of this year to ensure that we have a smooth transition.
We are all looking forward to working with Maria as we continue to focus on creating shareholder value through our global business plan.
So now let me turn back to our results and our outlook for the balance of the year.
Overall we delivered very good financial results in the first quarter and we are executing well in a challenging environment.
Organic sales growth in the quarter was 5% with benefits from our targeted growth initiatives from innovation and from selling price increases in some markets.
As Mark just mentioned our business in developing and emerging markets had another strong quarter and it was led by our Personal Care segment.
Organic sales in diapers rose high-teens in these markets as we continued to benefit from innovation expansion of the diaper pant and category development overall.
So this business has been growing rapidly for some time and you may not know but our diaper business in developing and emerging markets is more than 1.5 times the size of our diaper business in North America.
In terms of key growth markets organic sales in diapers increased 55% in Eastern Europe 35% in China and 15% in Brazil.
Huggies volumes were up nicely in all three markets and we have innovation launching in the next few quarters to drive additional growth.
We've also increased selling prices in Eastern Europe and Brazil to offset some of the currency declines that have happened in those places.
We're also doing well in our other Personal Care businesses in developing and emerging markets.
Organic sales in fem care were up mid-teens.
That included very good performance in Latin America led by Brazil and also in China.
Organic sales also increased double digits in baby wipes in our adult care business.
And K-C Professional grew organic sales high single digits in developing and emerging markets in the first quarter also a very good performance.
So overall we're delivering excellent growth in the developing and emerging markets and I expect our momentum there to continue going forward.
Turning to our developed markets business outside North America organic sales in the quarter were even with the prior year.
On the bottom line operating profit and operating margin increased significantly and that included very good results in Korea with additional progress in Western and Central Europe.
Moving to our North American consumer business sales volumes were up nicely across a number of our brands.
That included Huggies baby wipes Poise and Depend and adult care goodnight suit pants Cottonelle bathroom tissue and Scott and VIVA paper towels.
On the innovation front in North America we introduced improved Huggies baby wipes we started shipping new Poise pads and Depend briefs.
And in March we began the re-launch of our mainline Huggies snug and dry diapers.
This relaunch includes product upgrades a new marketing campaign and increased promotion support and this new product should be out on the shelf in about 80% of our retail customers in North America by late April.
In K-C Professional at North America we had solid volume growth in our higher margin faster growing wiper and safety products businesses.
In wash room our volumes were up low single digits which is a step in the right direction after a softer performance last year.
In terms of the bottom line as Mark mentioned we had an excellent quarter improving margins our focus on profitable volume growth raising selling prices where we can and then driving cost savings helped us overcome some pretty significant currency headwinds.
Then finally as Mark already highlighted we continue to allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways which is a key strategy of our global business plan.
So all-in-all I am encouraged by our first quarter results.
Now let me move to the outlook for the full year.
Our teams continue to focus on delivering their plans for the year and creating additional flexibility to further invest as appropriate.
While we’re only one quarter of the way through the year and the environment out there remains very volatile I'm pleased with our execution so far and despite a more negative currency outlook we're well positioned to achieve our earnings commitments for the year.
On the top line we continue to target organic sales growth of 3% to 5% for 2015 and on the bottom line we continue to expect full year adjusted earnings per share in a range of $5.60 to $5.80 and while currency headwinds have increased over the last three months we have good momentum with our growth initiatives and with our cost savings programs.
And the commodity cost outlook has improved slightly compared to where we were at the beginning of the year.
Our updated currency and commodity cost assumptions are included in this morning's news release if you want to refer to those.
So in summary we're off to an excellent start to the year.
We continue to focus on the fundamentals that drive our long term performance and we remain optimistic about our prospects to generate attractive shareholder returns.
That wraps our prepared remarks and now we will begin to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the floor is now open for your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hey guys how are you.
Hey Ali.
And Mark congratulations to you.
I hope [indiscernible] joy not dealing with us any more on these calls congratulations.
That's exactly Ali absolutely.
A couple of questions.
One is it looks like you are starting to enter this sweet spot as we call it of commodities really being a tailwind and not having to put back a lot of that into pricing in the category in promotions in the category.
Historically you guys used to say 60% or 70% of the commodity tailwind you have to put back into the categories somehow or reinvest it.
Is that what you are expecting going forward in this environment is little bit more is little bit less and are you yet at that run rate of reinvestment or should we continue to see an expansion in the sweet spot? I think that’s an interesting call.
As you look around the world you are still seeing some inflation in some markets and so as local currencies are really around places like Argentina for example or even Brazil and so we had 10 million of deflation in the quarter which is good and we think that our guidance of 50 to 150 for the year is probably the right ballpark.
I think given that last year we had close to $250 million of inflation and didn’t fully recover price on that front I hope that prices will be a little sticky on the way down.
I think the other big driver historically has been pulp and pulp is not moving around as much as the oil-based commodities and pulp has probably driven pricing more than any of the other commodities overall.
So sounds like you think you will be able to hold on to more than historically given what’s happened over the recent history of prices? Yeah that would certainly be our goal going into it.
Okay so something that you said actually linked to another question I had which is just FX and pricing.
So if you look at Personal Care developing and emerging you say negative 20% FX plus fixed price.
If you look at developed non-U.S.
there is a miss match there negative eight FX pricing little lower than that the same thing on consumer tissues.
So looks like the GAAP between the currency headwind and the pricing you are able to take in those markets has widened a little bit and want to get your perspective on that as it relates to the health of the consumer that you are seeing broadly or competition as well.
It’s tough to get full reflection of the translation impact of currency.
So if you can get the most of the transaction impact covered you are doing reasonably well and so in most of these markets we are seeing that.
We are getting the transaction partially or mostly covered but we are not covering the full translation impact.
Okay.
And then last thing on pricing in North America Personal Care and Consumer Tissue negative again is there any risk of that becoming or is it already in this kind of irrational zone I guess to use a heavy word or do you think this is just kind of normal competition? Lot of this is really stuff that happened last year and so it’s preferred [ph] to being annualized.
It started in second quarter we sort of stepped up in third quarter.
So it’s really more the comparison.
I wouldn’t say it’s gotten significantly or sequentially.
You will see some pockets where there are some lower price points but overall I would say it’s been pretty consistent.
Okay thanks again and congrats again Mark.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Hi Gail.
Hi.
Can you talk a little bit about your operating performance in consumer tissue is a fair bit stronger than I would have expected you are looking at 2% volume 1% price decline it’s not intuitive where the improvement was coming from.
Can you just talk about what really drove the earnings recovery? Yeah I mean a lot of it was in the U.S.
where we were plus five in volume.
It was very strong quarter good execution Cottonelle continued to do well and some of it was in the non-measured outlets where you would see or you wouldn’t necessarily see it in the Nielsen data and then we called out kind of a VIVA Vantage launch and so good strong growth there.
And typically it’s a strong facial tissue selling season.
Facial tissue was okay although it was being driven more by Cottonelle’s Scott Bath and Viva towels.
Okay and can you talk a little bit about the U.S.
diaper market.
Last quarter you kind of talked about having to step up and may be -- address some of this share loss.
How do you think you are doing and when do you think you will see the full benefit and is the [indiscernible] volume decline a reflection of comp more than actions or is that a reflection of some of the actions you have taken to-date? No it’s probably the comps are getting little easier.
We are up about a share point sequentially but the re-launch of our main line Huggies didn’t really start to roll until mid-March and it will roll through the end of April and so the better price getting on-shelf we are getting better better execution at store stronger advertising claims are coming.
So I think we'll have to see how that plays out over the balance of the year more than than we saw in the first quarter.
Okay.
And just the last question just any comments on the U.S.
consumer any changes in behavior or buying pattern in terms of whether there is more willingness maybe to spend up on premium purchasing in different channels purchasing different sizes just seeing any response to I guess improving confidence and lower gas pricing? Yes I wouldn't say we've seen a ton yet as I think a lot of retailers I've talked to have said that a lot of the lower fuel prices either been saved or has been spent inside the gas station buying an extra cup of coffee or something like that and so I wouldn't say we've seen that in category demand.
So the trends have been pretty stable.
It's not getting worse but it's not we're not seeing a big shift up either at this stage.
And are you seeing anything in the K-C Professional business that might give you encouragement or is that pretty much more of the same? I'd say I was talking to our KCP guys recently.
We just had a big meeting with lot of their U.S.
distributors and they were more bullish.
I mean they're seeing the continued slow steady growth in the U.S.
economy the job growth maybe it's been disappointing to some but it's been positive and pretty consistent and so they were more bullish this year and I think last year with the top weather in the Northeast which we call out as a reason why -- partly while we were down it was still a tough winter but it wasn't as bad as it was last year.
So everybody had a little bit stronger start to the year which was good.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Gail.
Thanks Gail.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks.
Guys hey how are you? Good.
I'm really good Chris.
Congratulations.
Gross margin look there has been a lot of question around pricing right and obviously pricing slowed a little bit sequentially but gross margin was up pretty substantially in the quarter and when you do the math on what currency must have done to gross margins and you look at FORCE FORCE is good but it wasn't a particularly extraordinary FORCE number cost savings restructuring savings were okay $10 million but not moving the needle right so can you talk a little bit more about where did all of the incremental gross margin expansion come from in the quarter and how sustainable is that right because trends if you look at where commodities are going where currencies going you think that you probably build on that increase.
So I was hoping you could talk that through a little bit.
I'll let Mark dive into the cost savings numbers just a little bit but essentially Chris if you think about it gross profit essentially was flat year-on-year.
Sales were down 4%.
So gross margin was up 180 basis points.
So essentially it took cost savings volume benefits selling price increases all of that collectively to cancel out the translation and transaction impact on currency and so we had a great start on cost savings and maybe Mark can add a little color on where we over delivered on the $90 million.
Yes Chris as the year progresses typically we build our cost savings program so to start a year $90 million is really a good result coming out of the gate and it's a combination of leveraging our global sourcing organization productivity and waste improvements and then a big contributor in the quarter was product design which are the three typical buckets that we have.
I would say the other thing is our operations are performing very well.
So if you think about tissue when we run tissue machines full I know they have low waste and high productivity.
There is really good absorption.
We actually don't see that element coming through in FORCE.
So I would say it's just a combination of good start to the year in cost savings and just overall good operations.
And I guess can we dig a little bit deeper into the state of U.S.
diapers.
So obviously we just had the mainline re-launch of Snug and Dry right and I guess are we seeing or will we be seeing in April the sum total of everything you're doing to get that turned and I guess how are you feeling about the brand equity there right.
How are retailers responding to it have you gotten and have you held shelf space have you maybe even gotten a little extra.
I guess just any more detail on the prospects for that area of the business would be helpful.
Well I think a couple of things.
The super-premium end of that business end of that business has grown really well and had a very strong first quarter.
All of our share improvement sequentially was in the super premium and we saw great innovation winning products out there and strong claims and saw that continue.
I think on the Snug and Dry the mainline business we have a much stronger plan this year than we had last year better product on shelf stronger advertising claims and we have got a better retail execution plan with more distribution more feature and display activity.
And so we will watch and see how that plays out.
Again we didn’t lose all the share in one swoop and so I am sure it won’t all come back in one quarter but I do expect to make steady progress and see some improvement in that business this year.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Hey Olivia How are you? Pretty good.
All right.
Congrats Mark.
Best of luck first.
Thank you.
And I guess first question just you started the year at sort of a high end of the three to five range.
So it sounds like you are keeping the range at least at three to five which you know in Q1 certainly makes sense.
But can you talk to what’s going on for the remainder of the year that could potentially just result in growth decelerating from where you started the year? We will get pretty good momentum but the comps gets little tougher in the back half as you recall we finished pretty strong in the second half of last year and so particularly in some of the emerging markets we will see that happen.
While everyone is talking about the China slowdown we haven’t seen it yet in our business but it is affecting some other competitors.
So that’s something we will watch as well.
We've got aggressive product innovation plans going there.
First quarter on the volume front in places like Eastern Europe we had some big price increases that took place on April 1.
So we had a little bit more volume that went in the first quarter.
On the other hand we will get the benefit of those price increases in the subsequent quarters.
So we still should see some organic growth a little bit more of volume in place.
So overall I would say we feel pretty optimistic and we kept the same range.
As you said it’s early in the year and this increases the confidence that we can achieve our plan for the year and maybe even give us the opportunity to think about areas that we could reinvest to set up for an even stronger 2016.
So it’s nice place to be at this point in the year.
Got it thanks.
And then also you had mentioned that FORCE typically gets better as the year progresses and starting at a $90 million.
If we just sort of roll back for the year that clearly suggests something quite a bit higher than just at least $300 million.
So can you talk through some of the savings of the cost I am sorry the savings this year relative to years past and whether it just was a particularly good start to the year or there is quite a bit of potential upside to your existing FORCE target? Olivia you have taken a page out of the CFO handbook.
Take good performance and just annualize it and so for us we did have a good start to the year I would say given that the nature of the environment that we are dealing in with all the currency challenges and competitive challenges around the world the teams really were focused on savings as a lever that we control heading into the year and we sort of decided while it’s a good start to the year to hold our outlook for the year phasing should typically get better but we started a little faster.
So we will give you an update when we get to the second quarter and it feels good to start but we are going to keep delivering.
I think we made a really strong first quarter in the emerging markets on the cost savings front and so that was a big plus for some places we have had big currency headwinds.
Those teams are looking at price and cost savings to make sure they can try to give us cost to the US dollar [indiscernible] as they can and I think that also helped get us off to a good start.
Does the cost savings FORCE target include the impact of currencies relative to the dollar target? Yes typically that’s what we would disclose that they would aim at.
In some individual markets they may have local currency targets that they aim at but at a regional level they all are measured on a dollar basis.
Understood thanks again.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman of Barclays.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Lauren.
I was just curious going back to the consumer tissue profitability or I just -- I looked -- my model goes back to 1999 and there is not a quarter with 18.5% margin so… Well there is now Don’t know exactly so just curious to what degree you think you’ve structurally changed the profitability of that business.
I understand 5% volume in North America will help a lot but still the base was already quite good and I guess for that question for consumer tissue but even for the company overall because as you pointed out it’s been two years of inflation you can’t even say deflation is driving this.
So I am just curious your views on whether there’s structural possibility the portfolio is changing it.
And if so how and why? Lauren I think as you know we have been -- we have really been working hard on this over the years and we did the tissue restructuring several years ago that had us exit some businesses and close some tissue facilities.
We did the European restructuring which had us exit diapers but also had us shape our tissue portfolio.
So we have really been trying to focus our business in the higher margin targeted growth areas of that business and we have been making steady progress on the margin front.
It feels pretty good to be here and I think the team is excited and is looking for areas where they can invest behind great brands in profitable ways to keep that momentum going.
Do you feel like -- is the margin profile of the emerging markets what does that look like? I know we can see North America versus rest of world but I am just wondering if the D&amp;E market profitability is also a mixed benefit.
In tissue specifically or broadly? I guess both since you offered it.
I would say that we saw a good margin performance in emerging markets as well and the developing is still lower than developed but they are narrowing the gap and it is a pretty solid performance.
So I don’t know Mark if you want to add anything any other color there or you…? I mean that their goal is to grow at or better than the underlying growth rate in the local market and close the margin gap overtime.
So I think you just saw us making progress on the first quarter.
Okay and when you said that you have covered the transaction expense with 9% FX headwinds at topline but 19 on the bottom line I mean guessing you didn’t mean just the pricing that when you say you covered transaction you also mean by virtue of the cost savings? Yeah I would say because in many markets you have transaction impacts like in Western Europe and Australia it’s very difficult to get any selling price and there has been a pretty good size currency hit in markets like that.
In places like Brazil and Russia and Ukraine we probably had a better opportunity to close the transaction gap but overall a combination of cost saves volume growth pricing we have been able to offset the currency impact.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thanks Lauren.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Hi this is actually Brian Doyle in for Caroline just had a couple of questions.
If you could comment on the just the share trends in the U.S.
adult care overall and for the Poise brand in particular? And then the second question was if you just clarify the sales to Halyard in the release it read like you were saying that was most of the 6% segment organic growth.
Is that accurate and how long does the agreement run? Thanks.
All right I will take the first one and I will throw Mark the second one on Halyard.
On adult care trends we probably would say we successfully defended [indiscernible] earlier this week that they successfully launched and so we have lost less than our fair share.
If you look sequentially I think we were down about a 0.5 point overall.
I think if you look year-over-year Paul we are down what? We are down about four points.
A little bit more on the Poise side less on the Depend side.
We are launching more innovation this year and are aggressively competing and promoting as is our primary competitor.
And so I think private label and the other small branded player have lost more than their fair share and the -- and the category growth has picked up.
So we saw solid high single digit category growth which may be a little over stated because of the amount of couponing that’s out there in the marketplace but it is still a strong performance.
Yes Brain on Halyard that 3% impact which we reported as mix and other in KCP as kind of less than half of their organic growth for this quarter.
So it was an important component but it wasn’t really the underlying driver and the agreement will run for two years and I'm sure there is a small markup on that.
I'm sure the Halyard team’s looking for alternative supplies as quickly as they can but the agreement commitment is two years.
Great thanks a lot.
Thanks Brian Our next question comes from Bill Schmidt of Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning guys.
The market’s been a great run.
Yes the [indiscernible] probably on you I hope.
First question is where are you getting all this extra distribution in non-scan [ph] channels because again there is a big disconnect from some of the Nielsen stuff we’re getting but it seems like it’s pretty clear and I think you will agree that you’re doing very well on some of the non-track channel.
So what are those channels and is that distribution gains or is it just better relative growth? You are talking about any market in particular? In North America I think the U.S.
stands out the most.
Yes I mean North America it’s essentially Club is the biggest non-scan channel and we are probably underweight historically in Club and tissue products.
And so that’s been an area that we’ve been trying to crack into with Cottonelle and VIVA and Scott Tissue and things like that and so had some success in the first quarter and that enabled some of that growth.
If you look more broadly particularly in Asia e-commerce is probably by far the biggest non-track channel that we’re outperforming in relative to the track channels.
So Korea and China in particular would be places where we’d see a lot better growth in the track channel.
Got you and is there like a long term sort of defense strategy against kind of what the P&amp;G is trying to do in Russia and China Brazil and then is there any incremental impact from some of the Japanese guys mostly Unicharm but maybe Kao [ph] as well are probably going to start using some of the currency to get more aggressive.
So what have we done so far and kind of what’s the plan going forward? Yes I mean it’s a tough competitive market place out there Bill as you’ve noted and pretty much everybody wants the ER launched somewhere.
So we’ve got strong global competitors.
We’ve got some strong local competitors and so we kind of have good innovation in the competitive on price and execute well everyday to keep it going and so we see that with some other things that Procter is doing on diaper pants that we’d also would say Unicharm and Kao in many ways have still the best performing products that we benchmark against and so we’re up against those guys in lots of different places and I'm really proud of the way the teams have executed and got better performing products with good execution in market.
And I would say Bill that our categories are largely local.
Our stuff doesn’t ship long distances.
So you might get some currency change like on commodity inputs and things but largely the battle is fought locally and I think with our model we’re set up to do that as well as anybody.
Okay this makes sense and then just -- what’s my last one oh China.
Can you just disaggregate it’s impossible to figure out what is like the real comp store sales growth and how much of it is distribution expense and I think you are going to add another ten cities this year plus or minus so is there any way to kind of look at that massive growth and separate between the two? It’s tough.
I think if you look sequentially I think our city counts didn’t change much if you look versus the first quarter last year it’s 105 versus 90 last year.
But I’ll also tell you e-com probably was the bigger growth factor than the city count change and so some of that is category penetration or channel growth that’s helping those consumers get products in a different way but Mark was just in China about a month ago so he’s probably got more relevant snapshot of what you saw when you were over there so maybe you can give us some local color.
Yes I would say Bill to that the market is still growing at very healthy rates.
I mean it’s down from where it was but our team still is very excited and executing well in bricks and mortar but e-com is the only place where they have -- we’ve invested a lot and were over indexed.
And as Tom said that’s probably the place where we have driven more of the relative share gains.
I think the category is still growing at high single to low double-digit.
Yes double-digits this year.
Yes so we’re growing at a multiple of that and city expansion is a piece of it but I would say e-com and channel expansion’s the bigger component.
Got you.
Just a brief follow up to go do you guys co-locate in China like some folks do in the U.S.
with the e-commerce players.
So I mean are they sharing the distribution space with your manufacturing? Yes our China team is working with our e-com customers to figure out and cost out the whole supply chain.
So we’ve done some of that in larger cities as well.
Great thanks guys I appreciate it.
Thanks Bill.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
My questions had to with the SG&amp;A line item that were much lower work than a year ago.
My calculation is $48 million down.
Is that something that has to do with savings or is it has to do with market expanding because you are -- it’s an issue of timing ahead of their re-launch of the Huggies Snug and Dry diapers and then I have a couple of follow-ups? Our marketing the SG&amp;A overall the top line I mean on advertising spend standpoint we were down 10 basis points versus as a percent of sales versus prior year but it was basically 10 balance sheet higher than the average of advertising spend for the full year of last year.
So it was in the ball park of what we would expect around 4% of sales.
On the SG&amp;A probably had a little bit of currency benefit that would affect it but maybe Mark’s got some additional color on that.
Yeah no Javier I think currency when you look at the absolute dollars currency is a big a big shift.
We obviously if you look at the difference between gross margin and operating margin we have got some between the lines efficiencies that the business are driven but currency’s probably the biggest impact.
And when you can see the launch of the Huggies diapers is that because we already have data through mid-April and sales are down 6% in direct channels.
So if there is timing issue with regards to again marketing spending that you are doing on shelf because this is the weakest quarterly I mean monthly data that we have seen for you guys in a long time.
I guess I’d say we have been getting the distribution started in mid-March and we should be in about 80% of channels by late April and that’s really when you will start to turn on more of that marketing effort at that point of time.
We are probably seeing a little bit better consumption data then I would say you are quoting from the data that you are seeing but it is still early days on the re-launch at this point.
And finally what drove the 55% growth in Eastern Europe and how to think about that? Two factors I mean yeah I would say two-thirds of it was or 25% of it was volume and the balance the 30% of it was price.
So some big price increases.
Some of the volume was buying ahead of an April 1 price increase but I think if you talk to that team it’s a double-digit volume growth in Eastern Europe is the right way to think about what they are aiming at for the year and then they attempting to get as much prices they can to offset the currency impact.
In the second quarter we should expect emerging markets to decelerate then? Eastern Europe you would see less volume growth but we will get the benefit of the price increase that went in.
So I wouldn’t necessarily assume that you will see a big deceleration.
But is 55 the right number is it 20 or 15 for Eastern Europe? 55 is probably higher than you typically expect to see going forward.
So you will see some deceleration on Eastern Europe overall but I think emerging markets should still have another strong quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks Javier.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Yes thanks.
Mark congratulations and I wanted to sort of go back to the CFO playbook you mentioned because this is something -- a comment that comes up multiple times on calls which is if the productivity is heavier towards the end of the year why don’t we see that end of the year productivity carry over in the first-half.
So you guys are alone in terms of saying that but it seems that it sort of good sustainable cost saves and I am not trying to question them.
It just seems like that would end up sort of rolling over.
And then my main question goes back to some of the comments about female incontinence and the category growth accelerating here and I guess sort of I understand that there is some couponing which is probably leading to some pantry loading but I guess how long do you know sort of how big this category can be? You do hear that when you get a new product launch from a big competitor that can make the category bigger and I look at some of the advertising you guys have out and looks like you are encouraging some switching in terms of Poise.
Can you talk about sort of A how big the category can be? And B you know how do you feel about categories switching out fem care into incontinence.
How does that work for you guys from an economic standpoint? Thanks.
Let me take the cost savings one first.
John I think it’s how the math works and little bit of programming.
So typically we will work out an annual budget cycle and the teams are focused on kind of annual incremental programs and you are exactly right.
The programs that we had in place last year don’t stop.
They are delivering but we also launch and think creatively about new programs to kind of help us hit our near-term target and I think it’s just a matter of the phasing as we go to those.
The underlying programs sort of roll in to your base and then you are looking to build on top of that as we go.
So you look at cumulative cost savings overtime that’s a pretty big number but they build on each other overtime.
And it’s just kind of the way the planning process goes and how the businesses behave.
Switching to Adult care we know for a long time that a lot of women that have white water leakage issues and one in three women at some point in their life experience white water leakage that they have used fem care as a solution and so given that we have a much larger share with our Poise brand in that space than we do in fem care we would love to shift into that space as a better solution and it’s a place where we are going to get more than our fair share of those new consumers.
And so you are seeing a little bit of that of the growth and Poise has been a bit of a decline in the Fem Care category and overall we should benefit from that and consumers will get a better solution for the issues that they are trying to treat.
Okay thanks.
Thanks John.
At this time we have no further questioners in the queue.
All right.
We thank everyone for the questions.
And I will turn the call back to Tom.
So usually I get the last word on these calls but since this is Mark’s last call I am going to throw it to Mark and let Mark have the last word today.
Well I am just grateful to work for Kimberly-Clark.
I have a cold today.
So I have the world’s softest facial tissue right at hand and also have anti-viral so I don’t transmit my germs to my fellow conference call mates.
I have had a good fortune that to build a career at a great company like Kimberly-Clark and work with great leaders like Tom who always got the best out of me work with great people like our investors our Board of Directors the leadership team that Tom has my leadership team and it’s been a very good one.
I am really proud of what we have accomplished but I am also optimistic about the future.
Tom has made a great selection for my successor.
Maria is fantastic and she is going to see opportunities that quite frankly being around for long time I just didn’t see.
And so I am optimistic about the future and committed to helping Maria and the new GSLT [ph] get started up.
So thanks for your support and thanks as always for your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding we now have your speakers in conference.
[Operator Instructions] at the completion of today’s presentation we will open the floor for questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question.
I would now like to turn today’s conference over to Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark’s Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today in Dallas are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Maria Henry CFO; and Mike Azbell Vice President and Controller.
Here is the agenda for our call.
Maria will begin with a review of our second quarter results after that Tom will provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year.
We’ll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today’s materials in the Investors section of our website.
Now as a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We’ll also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning’s news release.
The news release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I’ll turn it over to Maria.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning everyone.
I am happy to be in my first earnings call as part of the Kimberly-Clark team.
I had the opportunity to meet some of you and I am looking forward to meeting many more of you as I begin travelling to meet with investors [indiscernible].
Let me go ahead and turn to our results for the second quarter starting with some headlines.
First we achieved organic sales growth of 4% in line with our full year target of 3% to 5%.
Second we delivered excellent cost savings and margin improvement and solid growth in adjusted earnings per share.
And third we continue to improve our capital efficiency and return cash to shareholders.
Now let’s cover the details of our results second quarter sales were $4.6 billion that’s down 6% driven by a 10 point drag from currency rates.
Organic sales rose 4% highlighted by a 10% increase in our developing and emerging markets.
On profitability adjusted gross margin was 35.8% in the second quarter up 140 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted operating margin was 17% that’s up 130 basis points.
Operating margins were up in each major geographic regions North America developed markets and developing and emerging markets.
Our teams continue to deliver significant cost savings in order to improve profitability and fund the investments that we’re making behind our brands.
Second quarter FORCE savings were $105 million equaling our previous all-time high.
For the full year we now expect that FORCE savings will be at least $350 million that’s up from our previous expectations of at least $300 million.
In addition our organizational restructuring is on track and generated $20 million of savings in the quarter.
Commodities were a $40 million benefit in the quarter mostly from oil based materials.
We now expect that deflation for the full year will be between $100 million and $200 million.
On the other hand we continue to experience significant currency headwinds the total earnings drag from currency was approximately $0.30 per share in the second quarter.
For the full year we expect that currency will negatively impact earnings by more than 20%.
On the bottom-line second quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.41 that’s up 6% year-on-year and includes an approximate 3 point benefit from a lower share account.
Now turning to cash flow and capital efficiency.
Cash provided by operations in the second quarter was healthy as $772 million compared to the year ago quarter that was down $70 million driven by the spin-off of the healthcare business.
Our second quarter working capital cash conversion cycle improved seven days compared to the 2014 full year average.
We now expect our full year improvement to be six to seven days and that’s ahead of our original three to four day improvement targets.
This is mostly driven by additional progress on payables.
In terms of adjusted return on investment capital halfway through the year we are up 220 basis points including benefits from the spin-offs.
We expect full year improvement on ROIC to be at least 250 basis points.
On capital allocation second quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled more than $400 million the full year total should be at least $2 billion or about 5% of our current market capitalization.
Now let’s take a look at the segments.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 5% performance was led by developing in emerging markets where organic sales were up 13%.
Overall Personal Care operating margins were 20.5%.
The 190 basis point improvement year-on-year was enabled by three things organic sales growth cost savings and lower input cost.
Moving on to consumer tissue organic sales were up 1% including volume growth of 5% in North America.
Consumer tissue operating margins of 17.3% were up 260 basis points.
Result from this segment benefited from strong cost savings and lower between the line spending.
In our third segment K-C Professional delivered organic sales growth of 5%.
Within that organic sales were up 8% in developing and emerging markets and up 2% in North America.
The segment top-line also benefited from sales of nonwovens to Halyard Health in conjunction with a limited term supply agreement.
Overall K-C Professional margins were 17.6% up 20 basis points year-over-year.
I am encouraged that K-C Professionals margins remained healthy and above the corporate average.
To summarize we had a good quarter as we achieved mid-single-digit growth in organic sales and adjusted earnings per share we delivered strong cost savings and margin improvements and we continue to improve our balance sheet efficiency and allocate capital in shareholder friendly ways.
With that I’ll now turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Maria and good morning everyone.
I’ll share my perspective on our second quarter results and then I’ll address our full year outlook.
So overall we delivered another quarter of good financial results and we are executing our global business plan strategies very well.
As Maria just mentioned our business in developing and emerging markets had another strong quarter and that was led by our Personal Care business.
Organic sales in diapers rose low teens in these markets and we continue to benefit from innovation from expansion of diaper pants from the category development in many areas and from higher net selling prices in some places.
And in terms of our key growth markets organic sales in diapers increased 30% in China where we continue to drive strong growth even though competitive activity has picked up somewhat recently.
Huggies diapers are now sold in about 110 cities in China and that’s up from 105 cities at the end of last year.
Our organic sales in diapers also rose by 30% in Eastern Europe the growth this quarter was driven by price increases to offset some of the currency declines that have happened in that market.
In Brazil our team continues to execute well in a challenging economic environment.
Total Personal Care organic sales were up about 10% in Brazil and that included 5% growth in diapers.
We’re also doing well in our other Personal Care businesses in developing and emerging markets organic sales in fem care were up double-digits in the second quarter and that included excellent performance in Latin America led by Brazil.
Organic sales also increases strong double-digits in baby wipes and in adult care.
And our K-C Professional business had high single-digit organic sales growth in developing and emerging markets in the quarter.
So overall we delivered excellent results again in the developing and emerging markets and we expect our momentum to continue there going forward.
Turning to our developed market business outside North America organic sales in the quarter were down slightly.
We had solid growth in South Korea but market conditions were relatively soft in Western and Central Europe.
Nonetheless I am encouraged that operating margins were up year-on-year in the developed market overall.
Moving to our North American consumer business sales volumes were up nicely on a number of brands that included Huggies baby wipes Goodnites Youth Underpants Cottonelle bathroom tissue Viva paper towels.
On Huggies diapers while still early day the second quarter relaunched of mainline Huggies Snug N’ Dry diapers is off to a pretty good start.
In terms of upcoming innovations in North America we have product upgrades coming on both Huggies premium diaper and Pull-Ups training pants and in adult care we’re launching Poise Impressa which is a unique innovation that helps prevent Light Bladder Leakage.
And in K-C Professional North America volumes increased mid-single-digits in our higher margin faster growing wiper and safety products businesses.
In washroom products volumes were up low-single-digits as market conditions continue to improve modestly.
Since Maria has already discussed our profitability balance sheet and capital allocation I will just add that I am pleased towards our performance in all of these areas.
So all-in-all I am encouraged by our results in the second quarter and in the first half of the year.
Now let’s move on to the outlook for the full year.
Our teams continue to focus on delivering their plans for the year and investing further as appropriate for future growth.
On the top-line we continue to target organic sales growth of 3% to 5%.
With organic sales up 4% halfway through the year we’re in good shape relative to this target.
On the bottom-line we've raised the low end of our previous guidance by $0.05 a share.
Our new guidance range for adjusted earnings per share is $5.65 to $5.80 a share.
This change reflects our strong performance in the first half of the year and our progress on FORCE costs savings that Maria highlighted.
We’ve also stepped up investments in our brands and our targeted growth initiatives from what we originally planned.
As we continue to be optimistic about the growth opportunities that we have in front of us.
In terms of external factors our current expectation is that the net impact of changes in currencies commodities and selling prices probably similar to our original plan that we communicated to you in January.
The commodity outlook has improved somewhat but we expect that price realization will be a little less positive than what we expected earlier in the year.
And as we said in April we expect more currency headwinds than we had in our regional plan for the year.
We continue to focus on delivering on our annual commitments that said as you look at the back half of the year I’ll point out that last year’s earnings profile was unusually skew to the third quarter.
Third quarter last year had more than normal amount of other income had a strong quarter in Venezuela and had lower than expected G&amp;A spending.
So in summary we delivered very good results in the first half of the year we continue to focus on the fundamentals that drive long-term performance and we remain optimistic about our prospects to generate attractive shareholder return.
So that wraps up our prepared remarks and now we’ll begin to take your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we’ll open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question will come from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi I have two sort of buckets of questions if that’s okay? The first one just on a diaper numbers that you break out okay so the 5% in Brazil can you clarify how much of that is a slow down just in the macro just in the macro is a slowdown in the consumer off-take is it inventory destocking and is that number sort of in your mind in terms of what’s going to process over the next couple of quarters? And then totally separately Maria sort of as you come into the company fresh perspective new look I mean the FORCE savings that Kimberly has been generating are just phenomenal and I guess as you look at the cost structure sort of with a fresh set of eyes is this rate of cost cutting sort of something that you think is sustainable for the next few years or are we coming sort of to the end of that part of the story? Thank you.
Okay sure.
I’ll take the first one and I’ll let Maria answer the second question.
So in terms of Brazil I mean overall we’re pretty happy with our performance in that market on the consumer side.
We didn’t talk much about our KCP business.
But on the B2B side that economy has slowed down.
There is no question about it and we are seeing that in our KCP sales in the industrial side customers and at this point we’d say that the category is a little slower on the other hand we had a great quarter in fem care.
So we’ve been able to bring innovation we’ve seen that continue to drive the business.
And so we’re going to continue to invest in innovation and diapers and we think we can do a little better than we did this quarter overall.
But it’s a more challenging market from an economic perspective that’s for sure.
Maybe I’ll turn it over to Maria and she can comment on cost saves and her perspective on that.
Hi Wendy thanks for the question.
On the FORCE savings first let me say I’m really proud of the Kimberly-Clark organization on a global basis for delivering just an outstanding quarter in FORCE savings of over $100 million in the second quarter.
If you look at the rates for the - of at least $350 million.
That’s a really strong savings rate and I believe that we can continue to do this.
If I think about the percentage of annual savings that we’re able to deliver off of our cost of goods sold base we are in a good place in terms of what we are delivering and with the addition of Sandra MacQuillan to our team who is our new Head of Global Supply Chain.
I think Sandra will be able to work with the teams around the globe to unlock some additional savings as we go.
So I feel really good about the rate of savings that we are delivering and I’m very confident that we’ll able to continue to deliver strong productivity in our supply chain area.
Thank you for your question.
The next question will come from Bill Schmidt with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good morning.
Hey Bill.
Hey a couple of questions.
Can we just like draw a little bit deeper in the emerging markets starting with Brazil.
I think if you look at some of the shared data of Hyper Mark [ph] out which is value brand is gaining share do you think that’s a change in sort of consumer preference or is it macro is it permanent? And then I think SA [ph] also exited the market.
So is that an opportunity and then in China can you just talk about I think you said 110 cities now.
What’s the sort of end state opportunity is like how many cities aren’t you in and then what channels and price tiers maybe? And then lastly on Russia I just wanted to check on the health of the distributors and how they are getting [indiscernible] product in and if there is I think you can just sort of help them out given the macro? And then I have a follow up if I can.
Okay sure.
If I remember all those also Brazil I’d say EPRA markets is up a little bit and that business is for sale as you probably know I think there is some stuff that they are doing a kind of push those sales in the short-term.
I wouldn’t say we’ve seen a lot of trading down in this market and spend the consumer shock hasn’t been as big as you’ve seen in other economies over time and so you are seeing a huge trade down at this point and we’re still driving premiumization across our line up in Brazil and you saw that in the fem care numbers as we launch better performing products that consumers want to trade up on that front.
So again I’d say the news of FCA leaving in some consolidation there I mean there are probably more competitors in Brazil today than your normal market at this stage.
And so it’s not unusual to see a little bit of consolidation happening and typically that’s good for the big global players.
In China we are at 110 and I’d say it’s truly every city you add is a little smaller than the last on the other hand these cities still have like a million people and so they are pretty good sized and there still quite a bit of opportunity.
I would say at least 200 cities in terms of channels.
We are actually really developing e-commerce quite well and we’re also spending a lot of time on the premium baby stores and those are both rapidly growing channels.
Today probably a third of our diapers sales in China are done through e-commerce and the baby stores are a real super-premium channel where all the high end products are typically sold and you don’t see much in the value segment in that space.
I don’t expect we’re going to go deep into the low tiers in China we’ve got quite a bit of growth ahead of us in the mid to premium tiers and expect us to stay in that space.
And on Russia I was in Russia earlier this year actually I met with one of our KCP distributors and at that point they seem to be managing through the prices pretty well probably we’re little more optimistic than even I was going in terms how things were going to play out.
I think the oil prices has stayed down little longer is probably going to put a little bit more pressure on that economy.
So it’s something that we’re continuing to watch we do manufacture now in Russia so that does help us a bit in some of our cost base in local currency and doesn’t require us to import as much but that’s a challenging market for sure and we’ll keep an eye on that going forward.
Great thanks.
And if I just ask one follow-up on fem care in North America I mean the category itself is pretty soft I think the shares are little soft as well is any of that due to your now having like a focus competitor in Edge well and obviously they have some pretty ambitious growth targets.
So are you seeing a lot more aggressive competitive activity from them? I would say there was a little bit more competitive noise in fem care in the last quarter that accounts for some of the share decline we’re also looking to see are we executing as well as we could and we have enough news and innovation in commercial activity but I would say that was a soft spot for us in the consumer business in the second quarter.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question will come from Ali Dibadj with Sanford.
Please go ahead.
Hey how are you? So couple of questions.
One is I want to dig into Personal Care just a little bit more in terms of where your growth is coming from clearly it’s the emerging and developing world.
That growth rate again continues to slow it’s still good that continues to slow.
So trying to get a sense of where you think that kind of growth rate gets to on a steady state you say the momentum is continuing but is that momentum is slowing momentum so that’s one part of the Personal Care of business.
And then the other part I want to get a little bit more into the details of the Snug and Dry re-launch in the U.S.
so it still looks like the North America business for you on Personal Care isn’t really showing great results from the Snug and Dry launch is it just too early because on the other hand in the Nielsen data it looks like you might be seeing some improvement so want to really understand what we should expect from Snug and Dry in particular and how you think that may change your Personal Care results in the U.S.
going forward? So those two pieces first please.
Okay.
So Personal Care growth rate I mean we’ve said high single low double-digit growth in developing and emerging markets for us going forward and Personal Care is going to be the centerpiece of that and while there is some little bit of growth slowdown in some places there is also new markets that we’re continuing to open up like Nigeria and Kenya and places like that where there is pretty high birth rate.
So we do feel like there is a pretty long way to go to continue to penetrate these categories and GDP per capita is still improving even though the overall economic growth rate is slowing in some of these markets.
And so consumers have more purchasing power in their pocket to buy our products going forward.
And so we also see categories like Adult Care baby wipes that are still very under penetrated as we bring those into those markets there is a big opportunity to build those out overtime.
And so we’ve got some GDP per capita levers to drive that we’ve got some new category expansion to drive as well as some still some remaining geographic expansion to drive it and those factors I think will provide a lot of growth for us for future.
On the Snug and Dry re-launch I mean if you look at kind of the spread I think if you look at the Nielsen data and probably say we were up a percent in the quarter that’s probably pretty consistent as we would look at our consumption or our shelf off take would be pretty similar to that as we look at it across the parts of the category that aren’t covered by Nielsen and our sales were down about a percent our share was up about half a point sequentially.
And so the difference between our sales and the retail consumption is probably inventory change in channels which obviously going to be sustained.
So we’d say we’re broadly on track with our expectation on that re-launch and pretty good execution across retail consumers like the product the early reads and all the social media activity is very high four and five star ratings.
And so that’s kind of what we’re looking for and expect to continue to drive that in the back half we’ve also got some news coming on the super-premium end of our Huggies line up which will help that we haven’t seen much canalization on little bit of share growth that we’ve had which is great.
So so far I think the team we would say we’re pretty much on track.
Okay.
And then follow-up just on a former response in terms of Personal Care in the emerging market I mean I guess just to be very specific do you expect the growth rate to continue to slow given kind of large numbers et cetera as it has done.
So maybe answer that and I’ll come back with another one.
I mean I think it was what 11 in the first quarter and 10 this quarter.
So I would say that’s a modest slow down.
But I would expect we’re going to be in that high single-digit low double-digit range for a while I mean they vary a little bit depending on the quarter and what’s going on.
Okay cool thank you.
So my last one is just around the CapEx uptick that we saw in a part has been see it.
But can you give us a sense of where that's from what we should expect going forward? Yeah we’ll probably move to Maria you can add some color on this but we’re probably a little ahead of our typical run rate it seems to be more backend loaded.
But I think we’re still expecting to be in the range but Maria I don’t know if you’ve got any other color you want to add to that? Yeah I think that's right.
I would expect given where we are and the projects that we have on top for the second half that we will come out at the high end of our CapEx range for the year.
More of it's outside the U.S.
than inside as you would expect.
Thank you for your question.
The next question will come from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Hey Gail.
Can you talk a little bit detail about what’s going on in the U.S.
bath tissue market.
You guys obviously had great volume probably due to promote.
How do you see the overall spend in the promo activity there? Yes probably competitive activity has probably picked up just a little bit.
We are continuing to do well with Cottonelle and have seen that take off another selling quarter behind Cottonelle Scott Tissue is also continuing to do well in the market.
So probably maybe the competitive frequency has picked up just a bit and you are seeing that a little bit in the pricing number.
Some of our price numbers as well affected some of the promotional timing.
And so I wouldn't necessarily say that the uptick this quarter was fully reflective about what's happened in the market.
Some of it had more to do with timing of promotions than the overall market activity.
Okay and depends from of course the birth rate is starting to pick up and I was just wondering if you could just talk about are you starting just kind of see them what are you thinking as you look out over the next year or two? Yeah we’ve seen that as well and so it’s small positive upward momentum which as we’ve been talking about for a while.
The things that have been more predictive of that our male unemployment household formation and consumer confidence and we’re seeing slow steady progress in those in the U.S.
economy and that's just driving the birth rate up a bit which is good.
Alright.
And in terms of your deflation outlook for the year can you just talk a little bit about where you expect to see the incremental deflation over the second half I mean what is the little bit better than what you might have expected three months ago? Yeah pretty much all of our deflation is oil related material.
So if you look at pulp and secondary fiber those are pretty close to our original estimates for the year.
So we’re not seeing those move around much I mean eucalyptus is a little stronger [indiscernible] is a little weaker and so the net-net it's about where we thought it was going to be.
And so it's more polymer super absorbent things like adhesives packaging materials anything that's made out of a petroleum molecule.
Obviously with oil being a little lower than...
for a little longer than maybe we thought in our original guidance more that’s kind of flowing through in our lower material cost than we would have expected at the beginning of the year.
Most of that lines up in Personal Care from a segment stand point.
So consumer tissue and KCP don't get too much of that.
Thank you for your question.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Nick Moody [ph] with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks for the question.
Just two real quick one for me.
Tom maybe if you could just remind us on how you are thinking about acquisitions in terms of criteria and if you were to do an acquisition it's just really kind of building scale in existing categories or would you look at kind of wide space? And then the second question is on e-commerce it’s obviously becoming a very important trend for some of your categories so just wanted to get an update on that side of the business? Thanks.
Absolutely yeah the M&amp;A we have not been big acquires and so where we have done things has been more tuck-in and I think we’ve got so many great organic growth opportunities in our businesses around the world that we really want to make sure we're fully funding those and that we're resourcing those in the right way and that's I think the most valuable form of growth for our shareholders and we want to make sure we’re pursuing that.
And so there may be tuck-ins and individual markets that we've considered from time to time but we want to make sure we deliver on our organic growth framework.
On the e-com front we basically we want to make sure that our products are available wherever mom wants to shop.
And so if she is shopping at a nearby traditional retail outlet that's great we want to make sure we’re there with the right offer and the right product form.
If she wants to shop online absolutely we want to make sure she can find Huggies and are lineup is easy to navigate and we will make it easier to find what she needs there.
And so we try to make sure that we’re building capability around the world where e-commerce is developing in where mom wants to shop.
So that we have the skill sets to make sure that our products is represented in a digital space at the same level of professionalism that is represented in a physical store.
And so that’s something that we’ve learned we’re probably in the front foot on that in China.
We’re probably little late to the game in the U.S.
but we’re catching up quick.
And that we’re kind of monitoring and investing ahead of the curve and individual markets around the world where we see e-commerce starts to play out.
Great.
And Tom is there any way you can give us just rough how big the current e-commerce business is and how fast it’s growing just so have a sense of reference? Yeah I mean the statistics are probably difficult because if you sell to an offline retailer who has an online presence it's hard to tell exactly what flow through each part of their business but it varies quite a bit by markets on the U.S.
it’s probably less than 5% of our sales in China and our diaper business is probably a third of our sales.
In Korea from a category standpoint in the diaper space it's approaching 60% of the category.
And so overall it's probably still in the 5% or less of our sales just because some of our categories like tissue and KCP are not as well developed from an e-com standpoint yet.
Excellent thank you so much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Caroline.
I just wanted to ask a couple of things on the U.S.
the adult diaper business and the fem care business.
Can you talk about the competitive environment and what the outlook is for innovation there and is P&amp;G growing the adult category or are you seeing some share loss there? Yeah.
I think in adult care Procter re-launched last year with their always discrete product and category growth rates did pick up.
We lost a little less than our fair share of market share.
Probably done a little bit better on the Depend side they picked up a little bit more share on with always discrete against Poise but private label and SCA kind of brand loss probably disproportionately more share than we did.
If you look at the second quarter both Depend and Poise our share was up about a point sequentially but we were still down year-over-year from where the launch had occurred.
It’s quite a bit of innovation happening we’ve launched quite a bit of new products over the last year or so and with more coming under both Depend and Poise.
The most recent launch news is a totally new product called Poise Impressa which we had in test market in Kansas City and this is a product that actually helps prevent bladder leakage.
And so it’s a new space and we're going to be investing behind that in the later part of the year.
On fem care again we talked about that a little bit earlier probably a little bit more competitive promotion activity in the quarter I think we are down about a point year-on-year and pretty flat sequentially on share but some of it is the categories more competitors some of it we’re going to make sure we're doing all the right things to execute in that space.
So we’re making sure we got the right offer in the right messaging to drive that category.
Thanks.
And then just a follow-up on China can you help us scale how important that business is to you because it’s been growing so fast for so long it wasn’t necessarily disproportionately large within the whole business Brazil was generally your biggest market can you help us just understand the key drivers of EM? Brazil still the biggest at about $1 billon and China is gaining fast.
So it’s what Paul probably 3% of sales something like that.
Yeah.
China was 3% in the full year of last year and it’s going to be a bigger percentage this year.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Christ Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Wanted to dig a little bit more into I guess the specifics around U.S.
volume so it sounds like you guys in the press release you called out volume being down slightly in adult child and diapers and I guess specifically diapers the gap there with Nielsen is really wide right so Nielsen showing something like mid-single-digits volume increases during those months then you have Unilever this morning talking destalking in the U.S.
so I am wondering can you reconcile that a little bit I know it’s Nielsen but the volume piece specifically I guess? Yeah I mean as we would look at the - Ali asked this question a little bit earlier as we would look at the U.S.
diaper category in the quarter we’d say looking at everything that we can see and from a consumption standpoint shelf off take was probably plus 1 and our volume was minus 1 on diaper.
And so there is a little bit of inventory change some of it also has to do with that we shift some of the promotional activity in March for some of the snug and dry re-launch that that would up selling through in the second quarter.
And so I would say we’re about on track with our expectations from that standpoint.
And our stuff typically is pretty high queue pretty high velocity.
So there is usually not very large inventory swings.
So we wouldn’t typically see a big destocking effect.
Okay great.
And then can we talk about the incremental brand I mean I guess that’s above and beyond what you’d expected I think you sort of framed it around continued optimism around growth opportunity.
So I guess can you talk about how much of that incremental brand investment you expect to be in the form of pricing right which kind of came up a little over this quarter versus advertising behind initiatives? Yeah.
I think the way I would think about it is yeah we’re little bit ahead of our plan so far this year and we want to make sure we deliver the plan but we also if we have the opportunity to invest more in innovation or in some of our key markets where we’ve got good growth opportunities in a strategic way we’re going to look for opportunities to do that in the back half and maybe more than we have in past years which is a great opportunity for our teams to be whether they’re thinking about where do I cut programming to make the year we’re looking at and we fully funded here the things that we can do to increase our investment.
So where we’ve had good innovation where we’ve god market momentum those would be the kind of places that we’d been asking those questions it would be much more strategic front but I’d say advertising as part of it digital coupon I guess another part some of that stuff might wind up as a reduction of sales if it’s a digital coupon but it’s going to be more strategic rather than any kind of price cutting.
And just to be clear you guys have considered this more offensive than defensive relative to competition? Yeah.
I think in general yeah you want to make sure if you have competitive threats in markets though that you are fully defending.
So we’ve mentioned that the China diaper - with the right offer and [indiscernible].
So I think there is an element where you plan to offence and you also want to make sure you’re fully competitive.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you for your question.
The next question will come from Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Olivia.
Good morning.
How are you? Pretty good.
Good.
So first question just want to dig a little bit deeper into the earnings outlook because you raise your expectations on commodities enforced by let’s call about $100 million cumulatively.
And clearly that’s slightly offset by the slight uptick in currency pressure but it doesn’t seem to be flowing fully through to your earnings outlook.
So is it a function some of the incremental brand investment that you just refer to? So or is it another thing so maybe can you talk through some of the puts and takes that offset some of the positives on the expense line to start? Yeah that’s the right way to think about it.
We took the guidance up the bottom end of the range up a nickel and that's part of it.
We had better - a little bit better commodities we expected a little bit worst currency than we expected and then we took FORCE cost savings are tracking ahead of plan and we’re investing some of that strategically in key markets and products in the back half of the year.
So you get the right elements and the mix of that is what translates into the guidance.
Got it thank you.
And then just two follow-up questions first on North American diapers is Huggies spending right now fully rolled out and as you think about sort of rebuilding share at the low end how concern are you about the competitive environment at the entry level price points given where commodities are right now? And how do you think about the price volume mix? How do you think that looks going forward? And then just overall on the promotional environment which you referenced a couple of times already but how is the competitive environment looking right now overall? I mean we talked a little bit about North American consumer tissue but just to reassume your thoughts on the overall basis as well? Thanks so much.
Sure.
Yeah on diapers I mean I think the near-term commodity weakness isn't resulting in any significant price movement and if you kind of look at over the last couple of years we’ve had pretty good amount of commodity increases but there was no price recovery for us.
So if you looked at the net-net of it we are still even though the deflation we’re going to have this year is less than the inflation we had last year that we didn't get any pricing for.
So I would say in the range that we are in I don't think it's going to move price significantly.
I also think the consumer is in the stronger position than they were a year ago.
And so we want to make sure that we get the right offer and that we get a very good performing product at a competitive price in the market place which is sort of in the heritage of Huggies for many years and we’re really making sure we stay true to that.
In terms of the competitive environment if you look all over the world there is plenty of people that get up every morning wanting to take your business.
And so we look at the Japanese competitors [indiscernible] are quite aggressive local Chinese competitors like [indiscernible] are aggressive we got local competitors in Latin America with CMPC and then SCA is popping up in lots of places.
So and obviously P&amp;G is a formidable global competitor as well.
So we know we've got to be moving pretty fast every day to bring right innovation to execute well in the market to continue to deliver on our business plans and our teams are up for that challenge.
Thank you.
Thank you for the question.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Familiar with Barclays it’s great.
Actually this is Lieberman regardless.
Can you talk a little bit again sorry to beat a dead horse but just on fem care at least in the Nielsen data it looks like private label has actually been gaining some ground.
So when you are talking about kind of making sure you have the right offerings and revisiting market again and so is it primarily what you are seeing day to day as well the private label is the really the one kind of making some inroads? Finally the shares are up a little bit I'm just kind of looking at the share data.
But it's....
I don't know if you get it Paul.
About a point.
About a point.
But I would say it's been more the competitive price points from some of those smaller players in the market that has been making some noise as we’ve last year consolidated our everything under the U by Kotex name and that execution went pretty well.
But we still think with that we can do even better in terms of how we merchandise that in store and make sure we’ve got the right product and right offer.
Our super-premium our U by Kotex line was a little slower growth this quarter and so that's one that we are really focusing on and make sure we got the right innovation messaging there.
And so again some of it’s the category and some of it is we probably say we can do better on the innovation and execution front.
Okay.
And as you are thinking about the reinvestment dollars the back half of the year and even further beyond how much of that mix is skewing online social et cetera? Particularly I think about things like where to reach people entering the fen care category what you'll be doing with Impressa going forward and what’s your kind of learning trajectory on how to do online best? That's a great question and that’s something that we’re spending a lot of time on and so we’ve got lots of digital marketing work going on all over the world and are trying to make sure we’re investing in that capability in each individual market and then where we find something that work to share best practices at a faster pace.
And so I think that’s something that every CPG out there is doing.
And particularly in the target market of fem care for late teen girls I mean they are very connected in their social experience and we want to make sure that we’re relevant there.
So for example in China with our re-launch of our Kotex brand there it’s been nearly 100% digital marketing really almost no network TV in that space just because of the importance of that channel that consumer.
And so we’ve had some real successes and we’ve also learn some things along the way of what not to do and but we’ve got a lot of good work going on in that space.
When did Kotex re-launch in China? We launch that it was like early last year or late ‘13? Yes.
Late ‘13 I think was the first shipment that really kind of sort hit strides in ‘14.
Okay.
And then in - fem care in Brazil couple of times today so was there also a re-launch for Kotex in Brazil? Yeah.
Our brand there is Intimus like Kotex which is a brand that we acquired but we’re upgrading that with some of the global innovation that we’ve done in other markets along the lines of the U by Kotex things that we’ve done in the U.S.
and seeing a very good response when we picked up brand leadership in Brazil in fem care for the first time in the long time and have good momentum going in that market.
Okay great.
Last details is it branding on end product in terms of you by Kotex carry over in the U.S.
or is it just sort of the product itself? It’s more of the product itself and it’s actually it’s more of a global innovation a lot of the stuff that U.S.
guys are launching that was invented in Korea or China or elsewhere and so that global team is probably doing the best job of any that we have of driving an idea consistently around the world.
Five years ago probably would have been our most disapproved product form everywhere and today we’re all on went roughly the same product chasse we’re trying to take that learning and do it other areas so some of the things we’re doing on diaper pants and baby wipes are tapping into that where our local teams still have local optimization but we’re able to drive a more consistent message around the world.
Okay.
So thanks so much.
Thanks Lauren.
Thank you for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Alright.
Since we have no more questions on the line we thank you for your interest today and we’ll close with the comment from Tom.
Once again a good quarter of top and bottom line results and good execution by the team and we really appreciate your interest and support in Kimberly-Clark.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a wonderful evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding we now have your speakers in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question.
It is now my pleasure to turn today's conference over to Paul Alexander.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Tom Falk Chairman and CEO; Maria Henry CFO; and Mike Azbell VP and Controller.
Here's the agenda for our call.
Maria will begin with the review of third quarter results.
Tom will then provide his perspectives on our results and the outlook for the full year and we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our Web site.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I will turn it over to Maria.
Great.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining the call today.
Let me start with the headlines for our third quarter results.
We achieved organic sales growth of 5%.
That's at the high end of our full year target.
We also delivered excellent cost savings gross margin improvement and record adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations.
And finally we continue to improve our capital efficiency and return cash to shareholders.
Now let's cover the details of our results starting with sales.
Third quarter net sales were $4.7 billion.
That's down 7% driven by a 12 point drag from currency rates.
Organic sales rose more than 5% including 10% increase in developing and emerging markets.
On profitability adjusted gross margin was 36.1% in the third quarter up 120 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating margin was 17.5%.
That's up 10 basis points despite unusually low G&amp;A spending last year and a 70 basis point drag in other expense.
Our teams continue to deliver significant cost savings in order to improve profitability and fund the investments that we're making behind our brands.
Third quarter FORCE cost savings were $85 million.
In addition our organizational restructuring is on track and generated $20 million of savings in the quarter.
Commodities were a $45 million benefit in the quarter mostly in oil-based materials.
Full year deflation should be about in the middle of our previously estimated range of $100 million to $200 million.
Now on the other hand we continue to experience significant currency headwinds.
The total earnings drag from currency was approximately $0.45 per share in the third quarter.
For the full year it's likely that the currency headwinds on our bottom line will approach 25%.
That's a more significant impact than we expected coming into the year and when we spoke to you on our last earnings call in July.
On items below operating profit we had modest benefits from lower share counts and the adjusted effective tax rate along with higher equity income.
On the bottom line third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.51.
That's a new all-time quarterly high on continuing operations basis and up 1% year-on-year.
Now turning to cash flow and capital efficiency; cash provided by operations in the third quarter was healthy at $849 million although down versus a very strong year ago quarter of $976 million.
On adjusted return on invested capital through nine months we have improved this metric 350 basis points.
That improvement includes benefits from the spin-off of Halyard Health.
On capital allocation third quarter dividend payments and share repurchases totaled nearly half a billion dollars.
We expect the full year total will be $2.1 billion or about 5% of our current market capitalization.
Now let's look at the segment results.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 9%.
That included 14% growth in developing and emerging markets and a 7% increase in North America.
Overall Personal Care operating margins were 20.5% up 100 basis points.
This improvement was enabled by organic sales growth cost savings and lower input costs.
In Consumer Tissue organic sales were up 1% including volume growth of 6% in North America.
Consumer Tissue operating margins of 17% were up 20 basis points despite unfavorable currency effects.
In K-C Professional organic sales increased 5%.
Within that developing and emerging markets grew 6% and developed markets outside of North America grew 4%.
The segment top line also benefited from sales of nonwovens to Halyard Health in conjunction with a limited term supply agreement.
You can see this benefit in the mix other number for this segment.
K-C Professional margins were 18.6% off 30 basis points year-on-year.
Overall the margins in this segment remain healthy and above the corporate average.
To summarize we had another good quarter as we achieved mid single-digit growth in organic sales we delivered strong cost savings gross margin improvement and record adjusted earnings per share and we continue to improve our balance sheet efficiency and allocate capital in shareholder-friendly ways.
I will now turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Maria and good morning everyone.
I will share my perspectives on our third quarter results and then I will cover our full year outlook.
Overall we delivered another quarter of good financial results and we are executing our global business plan strategies well in a challenging environment.
As Maria just mentioned organic sales growth was strong at more than 5% in the quarter.
So let me spend a few minute and unpack some of our top line growth strategies for you.
As you know we are focused on pursuing targeted growth initiatives.
We are launching product innovations and making high return investments in our brands.
These strategies are working.
Our biggest targeted growth initiative is in the developing and emerging markets.
We had another excellent quarter in this part of our portfolio with 10% organic sales growth overall.
Organic sales in diapers rose double digits in these markets.
We continue to benefit from innovation expansion of diaper pants category development and higher net selling prices in some places.
In terms of some of our key growth markets organic sales in diapers rose about 45% in Eastern Europe.
That was driven by price increases in Russia and the Ukraine to offset currency declines there along with double-digit volume growth in Russia.
Organic sales in diapers increased more than 15% in China.
Volume growth remained very strong while net selling prices were down due to increased competitive activity.
Huggies diapers are now sold in 115 cities in China that's up from 105 at the end of last year.
We are launching product improvements in the fourth quarter of this year to further improve our Huggies franchise in China.
In Brazil our team continues to execute well in a very challenging economic environment.
Total Personal Care organic sales increased more than 10% including 5% growth in diapers.
Elsewhere in developing and emerging markets our overall feminine care organic sales rose high-teens in the third quarter.
Our momentum remains strong in Latin America led by Brazil and we made further progress in China.
Organic sales also increased double digits in baby wipes and in adult care in the developing and emerging markets.
So overall we delivered a strong organic sales growth quarter in developing and emerging markets and we are optimistic about our future there.
In our developed markets business outside of North America organic sales were down slightly in the quarter.
We continue to generate solid growth in South Korea while market conditions remain relatively soft in Western and Central Europe.
Moving now to North America in our consumer business we have excellent volume growth in the quarter behind innovation brand investment and good execution at retail.
In baby and child care volumes were up low double digits on Huggies diapers and high single digits on Huggies baby wipes.
Our second quarter re-launch of new Snug N' Dry mainline diapers is on track and I'm encouraged that our Huggies volumes are improving.
In our adult care business our innovation brand investment and category growth helped us deliver double-digit volume growth in the quarter.
Pipeline shipments for Poise Impressa occurred in the last half of the quarter and we are watching the consumer response there very closely.
In consumer tissue Kleenex facial tissue volumes rose high single digits.
We had very good execution around the back-to-school season and paper towel volumes were up double digits led by promotional activity on Viva.
Shifting to K-C Professional in North America volumes there increased mid single digits on our higher margin faster-growing wiper products.
In washroom products organic sales were even with last year and that's roughly in line with the overall market and category.
Since Maria has already discussed our profitability the balance sheet and capital allocation I will just add that I'm also very pleased with our performance in those areas.
So all in all I'm encouraged by our results in the third quarter.
Now let's move and talk about the outlook for the full year.
Our teams continue to focus on the fundamentals that create long-term shareholder value while delivering on our near-term financial commitments.
In terms of our growth targets for the year we are raising the low end of our previous guidance ranges for both organic sales growth and adjusted earnings per share.
On the top line we are now targeting organic sales growth of 4% to 5%.
Our prior target was 3% to 5%.
Through nine months we've delivered growth of about 4.5% and that compares favorably to many other peer CPG companies.
On the bottom line despite a worsening currency environment we've raised the low end of our previous guidance range by $0.05 per share for the second consecutive quarter.
That's largely due to our improved expectation for organic sales growth.
Our updated outlook is for adjusted earnings per share this year of $5.70 to $5.80.
So in summary we delivered a very good result in the third quarter.
We raised the low end of our top and bottom line growth ranges for the full year.
And we remain optimistic about our prospects to generate attractive shareholder returns.
That wraps up our prepared remarks and now we will begin to take your questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We will now open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Good morning.
In terms of the diaper business in the U.S.
has any of that promotion activity started to roll off in the fourth quarter? And if so can you give any sense of how sales have progressed? I would say that it wasn't as much promotion-intense as getting the everyday price and innovation fundamentals right.
And so that is continuing in the fourth quarter.
And we've got a good momentum in the diaper business overall and expect to see that continue.
All right.
And I apologize if I missed it but can you give some insights into the trends you are seeing in North America in feminine care? Our fem care business was sort of flattish on volume in the quarter.
We got some more activity coming in the fourth quarter.
There was a little bit more promotion activity in tampons in some of our competition in the third quarter.
That probably affected our growth a bit but we've got more action coming in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And in terms of developing and emerging are you still comfortable that you can compensate for currency with price or do you think you've tapped out your ability to use price as a lever at this point? I would say -- and you saw it a little bit in this quarter that we've had less price overall than maybe we've had in some markets.
The rate of currency deterioration hasn't been as severe as it was say a year ago.
On the other hand there's still some opportunity for price in some markets.
As we look at particularly in Latin America where you are seeing some pretty significant currency moves.
Those have been places where we've been able to get some price to compensate with that.
And then other markets around the world it's been a little bit tougher to get price particularly places like Western Europe or Australia where there's been some currency softness.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Gail.
Thank you for your question.
The next question will come from Jason English.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for the question.
A couple of housekeeping items and I apologize if I missed this in the prepared remarks.
You referenced the deflationary number ex-fiber in the press release.
Can you talk about what you are seeing in the fiber complex? And then also give us a little more color on what's driving the higher administrative cost? Yes I think a couple of things.
Fiber was about a push in the quarter it normally would be in that number but -- so you are seeing fairly minor movements up and down on different grades of fiber.
Eucalyptus is a little higher Northern softwood is a little lower.
Secondary fiber has been a little lower.
So there's not been a lot of movement on that front.
As we look -- rolling forward we will see how that plays up but we haven't seen much push from fiber.
What was the other part of your question Jason? Higher administrative costs this quarter.
Oh yes G&amp;A was more of a comp [ph] to last year; it was an unusually low quarter so … Got it.
That's helpful.
And one more question just in terms of China expansion strategy.
I appreciate that you continue to build out brick-and-mortar presence in more markets.
Can you talk about how your strategy may be evolving with the booming eComm business as well as opening in more free trade zones and more participants in those markets or in the free trade zones? Yes we've been a leader in eComm in China.
It's probably been at least a third of our diaper sales.
And eComm grew faster than our overall business in China in the quarter.
And so we are aggressively going after that.
And China as you may know has been a place that's been pretty competitive for a long long time.
So I think everyone in the world sees the opportunity in China and has been investing there pretty aggressively.
So we see the Japanese competitors other U.S.
competitors some of the European competitors are there.
And so it's a competitive marketplace for sure.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
I'll the pass it on.
Thanks Jason.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hi Chris.
Good morning.
So I guess on the U.S.
are you seeing any competitive reaction to Snug N' Dry? I know to some extent Snug N' Dry is -- the re-phasing of it is a competitive reaction as well.
But are you seeing anything from competitors with respect to promo? And how optimistic are you that the share gains that you're picking up are sustainable at these sharper price points? Yes that's a good question Chris.
I'd say it was a -- we saw increased coupon activity which may be not be as visible to you in some of the Nielsen data.
We saw pretty heavy advertising investment by key competition.
And so which I'd say is about the kind of competitive reaction we would expect in a major re-launch like that.
We would be approaching it the same way if one of our competitors was re-launching where you try to make sure you protect your franchise as much as you can.
Yes I think the share gains to this point have been fairly modest.
If you look at our fourth quarter share which is maybe our low point year-to-date we are maybe up a point versus that level.
And so this quarter our shipment share -- our shipment volume was a little bit ahead of our share progress as we -- we had some retailers that built inventory because we had a few out-of-stocks that they wanted to try to take care of.
In the second quarter that was sort of the reverse situation and so we caught up a bit in the third quarter.
Got it.
Thanks.
And in I guess China.
I think you said net selling prices ran a little bit lower and volume really didn't decelerate very much.
I guess A is that right? And then can you characterize what type of competitive pressure -- I mean is this diaper pants and Procter generally I guess? Any more color on that would be really helpful.
Yes in China our total diaper volume was up 15 -- our total diaper organic was up 15 volume was north of 20.
So you can do the math.
Price was the balance.
I would say it was in some cases some of our non-U.S.
competitors the Unitherms and Kaos where they've had a relatively weaker home currency were a little bit more aggressive on price more so than other competitors in that market.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
So Korea had a pretty nice quarter in personal care.
But can you comment on the sustainability of that volume growth particularly as you move into 2016 and you start to cycle some tougher comps? And then just longer term how do you think about pricing particularly in North America? Because it looks like the moves that you've made on price have obviously resulted in better volumes than what the track channel data would imply but just curious how you think about the volume versus price dynamic going forward.
So those are great questions.
So yes we've got a very strong innovation pipeline coming and really good execution in emerging markets.
So we are still very bullish on that.
We are still seeing the super premium segment of our categories grow in most of our major markets.
Even in Brazil where there's been a pretty severe currency hit to that economy year-on-year and quite a bit of price inflation you're still seeing mom want the very best product for baby.
And we're seeing that in Russia.
We're continuing to see that in China.
There's no question that the consumer is under pressure in some of those markets from a purchasing power standpoint.
So we're watching that to see if category growth decelerates; have not seen that to a great extent on the consumer side seeing a little bit more of a reaction on the B2B side.
So our KCP business was slower in the quarter in Brazil than our consumer business was.
And so that is one that we are watching the dynamic in those markets where you've seen a lot of pressure.
In the U.S.
the pricing that we've done has been either surgical to get our value equation right on Huggies Snug N' Dry to make sure that we got the right price gap versus our nearest mid-tier competition.
And we're seeing reasonable returns from that in terms of the volume growth.
On the tissue front where there was a little bit of price weakness in the quarter that's been a story that's been going on for awhile.
I'd say sequentially it was slightly better in terms of the competitive deep promotion price points pulled up a little bit so we are not seeing as much of that.
So again it's more about trying to make sure we are competitive on shelf with the right offer and bringing the right value to the consumer.
Got it.
Thanks.
It's really helpful.
And then just following up on fem care you had mentioned some incremental activity coming in Q4.
Do you mean incremental like innovation or more pricing promotion type adjustments? I'd say some of both.
We'll have some product news and then some commercial innovation.
So it will be a combination of strategic marketing.
We'll do some things in the advertising and digital marketing front as well as some in-store activity but I wouldn't view it as -- it's not going to be a straight hot price promotion to move volume.
It's more strategic around product news.
Great.
Thanks a bunch.
Thank you.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Lauren.
Good morning.
On North America two questions.
So one is on the personal care volume growth.
I know Tom you started to mention there was a little bit of a catch-up or truing-up on inventory levels at retail and shipments versus 2Q.
But just if you could talk about I guess the Nielsen data which shows something close to 3% sales growth for you guys in terms of takeaway but you reported 7%.
So how much of that do you think is the Impressa pipeline till at the end of the quarter some catch-up where they've been out-of-stocks last quarter.
So that would be one bucket of question.
The other would be on pricing the sequential deceleration.
How much of that was maybe sampling or couponing on Poise any kind of new activity on other areas of incontinence or in fem care? Because it did -- got a little bit more sequentially and I believe that all of the price adjustments on Snug N' Dry had been in there last quarter.
Thanks.
Yes that's fair.
I think on the volume front if you think Poise and Impressa it's fairly small dollars in the quarter really just getting started.
So if you looked at our total adult care business in North America was up double digits overall on organic.
If you took Poise and Impressa out it was up high single digit.
So it didn't move the needle even in adult care all that much but we do think it's going to be a nice category for us as we start to roll it out.
On the price overall I'd say it was a -- that probably most of it was in diapers and so we do have a little bit of a more training pant promotion in the summer months so you saw a little bit of that in the third quarter.
We had some -- we'd launched an improved Pull-Ups product in August.
And so we put a little bit behind that to get that going.
But those were the -- largely it was most of price promotion activity was in the diaper category.
Okay great.
And then just sorry Tom just to finish up on the volume so the Impressa piece was small but do you think other than I guess the true-ups versus 2Q was what we saw in terms of shipments versus takeaway if we assume Nielsen [indiscernible] engage for takeaway.
Do you think you're back to even 2Q 3Q combined and 4Q is sort of shipments and consumption match a little bit better? Yes.
I would think that's the case.
I think a lot of the inventory that went in was either to support customer service levels.
We had some high out-of-stocks for the couple of customers.
And so we -- as we added the inventory we saw better in-stock and better performance at retail.
And so hopefully that investment continues to pay off for us and our retail partners.
Okay great.
And then if I could just ask one more in personal care margins; margins up 100 basis points in that business even with the down-drop in North America pricing and the 13% FX headwind to top line.
So can you just talk a little bit about what's really driving that? I know you loosely said cost savings but it just seems like an enormous gap that you guys overcame.
Yes I mean I would say cost savings were good.
Virtually all the deflation -- the raw material deflation hit personal care because tissue and KCP is mostly fiber based.
And fiber was basically even sequentially and so -- or year-over-year.
So they got virtually all the benefit there.
We also got some price in some markets around personal care where we had some currency devaluation.
And so that helped as well.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Lauren.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Nyet Nuin with Xbodia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
Thank you for your talk.
And I have a question on the outlook that you have for the Q4.
You said organic sales growth contribute 3% to 4%.
I wonder why you dropped the percentage of growth from this quarter to next quarter.
And then the second part is about the cash flow.
I see that the cash -- the free cash flow has been reducing.
So I wonder what is the reason why behind that.
So there are two questions I have.
Sure.
I think we adjusted our organic sales growth outlook for the year.
So we're at 4.5 year-to-date.
And we said we'd be four to five for the year and that's up from three to five in the previous quarter.
So we got the fourth quarter by definition it is going to be pretty close to our trend rate for where we've been.
On the free cash flow like everything else in our financial statements has been affected by changes in currency rates.
And so as currencies weaken it's -- our sales are smaller our profits are under pressure from it our balance sheet is smaller and our cash flow is little smaller.
And so we've got lower cash earnings to start but predominantly due to currency and then that flows through the overall cash flow statement.
Thank you.
And just a follow-up on the currency question; so I see that a lot of companies are hurt by the stronger dollar compared to other markets.
And since your company has a lot of sales in the emerging markets do you have any other remedies or any other solutions in terms of trying to improve the situation beside endure the pain by the market? Well essentially we are -- our strategy is to maximize our local currency net income.
And so we make most of our products in the country that we sell them in.
And so -- and part of our costs are denominated in local currency and then a part are in dollar-based commodities and we try to hedge that where we can.
But we want to win in the local market and gain market share in the local market by delivering products that are relevant and meet the essentials for mom to care for her family.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
So I wanted to get some help thinking about how you feel the quality of your numbers are this quarter.
Usually it's pristine and this time the top line is still very good but driven by as you mentioned price promo some inventory some things that make it sound like the top line isn't quite as sustainable going forward truly if there's more competition.
Your margins were a little bit worse than anticipated.
FORCE was a little bit lower but you made it up through taxes being a little bit lower at least at least than we had modeled and certainly some higher buyback.
So for a company that's usually very pristine on the quality you're clearly dealing with these tough times.
I'm trying to figure out how we should think about this as a little bit different than what we've seen over the past several quarters I guess.
Actually Ali I was pretty happy with the quality of it.
So I -- as we looked at the 5% organic top line is pretty solid in this environment and have been at the high end of the range that we've been aiming at all volume.
So really not any help from price to get there were in other quarters we've been in the four to five range with three volume and two price.
So I mean I'm pretty happy on the top line front.
In this environment where we're not getting as much price and we still got all the transactional currency hit to cover it with cost savings and still deliver improved gross margin and improved operating margin was a pretty good performance.
We held our advertising and promotion investment rate as a percent of sales in the quarter which is a positive.
The year-over-year margin and present [ph] G&amp;A was really a low watermark for us last year and we did indicate that that probably wasn't going to be repeated.
And then other income and expense was about 30 million swing year-over-year.
Last year we had a gain from an asset sale and this year we had currency transaction losses.
And so when you net all that down you would say pretty good performance to have margin improvement in both gross and operating margin.
And then below the line taxes were benefit.
Mexico had a good quarter though and Mexico was a nice uptick for us which while it doesn't show up in all the operating line is still a very solid performance.
So all in all I would say we feel pretty good about the quality.
Okay.
So many levers to pull and in a tough environment you can pull on them differentially to get to again good numbers throughout.
If you could comment on FORCE it sounds like that's just this quarter a little bit lower than it's been in the past but feels like that's just kind of ramping up and may be a transition to new plan and then another comment if you could share … Yes on FORCE I mean we delivered 85 million and we are at 285 for the year-to-date.
So we are on track with a 350-ish kind of number which is –- so 85 is pretty close to the run rate you would expect.
And so again I would say good solid work on negotiating material savings and specifications and productivity all delivered a solid result.
And we do think there is more to come as we continue to build our global supply chain capability.
Okay.
And I just want to pick your brain because you guys are usually very open and have a lot of insight on kind of the market broadly.
I want to know what you thought about this whole Walmart Wednesdays as we're calling it in terms of their panic and basically saying our margins will never be this high and trying to react to what they believe is a normal trend in the consumer.
How do you think CPG companies will interpret that or feel any repercussions of it? Not short term but longer term.
There is certainly lot of change going on at Walmart and we see them investing in the store experience.
And if you have been in the Walmart a year ago and were in one today I think you would see a difference and we are saying our business with them is continuing to perform well.
We are also investing in eCommerce.
So I think they are doing a lot of right things and our job is to make sure we are winning with all of our customers wherever mom wants to shop and that we've got the right product and right offer on shelf.
And so we are continuing to do everything we can with them and our other customers to make sure we got the right things happening in the retail space.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank Ali.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Javier.
Mr.
Escalante please make sure your phone is put on mute.
I am sorry.
Good morning everyone.
It was in mute.
I would like to have some clarifications on the emerging market piece.
If you can remind us what percentage of your sales are in Eastern Europe which is growing at 45%? And how sustainable is that? Is it that -- I can see that the double-digit volume growth in Russia suggests like there is no price elasticity and that you have a ton of pricing power in Russia.
So could you help us understand what's happening in Eastern Europe that is growing 45%? Is it that you are gaining share to competitors? Is it that the category is on fire? So that would be my first questions.
And then I have a couple of follow-ups on Brazil and China.
Thank you.
Yes.
I mean Russia and Eastern Europe is about couple of percent of our overall company sales.
So it's relatively small market for us.
And when you've seen what the Ruble has done over the last year you've seen lots of price inflation in that market.
It is not unlike some of the Latin American markets where you had a significant inflationary impact and where you got a lot of imported materials in your product you wind up having to take price just to keep your margins reasonably whole.
And we are seeing good response to diaper pants in that market and so it's not just a straight price increase we've also brought innovation and we are trying to watch and make sure we've got the right price pack architecture to hit the purchasing power that mom has got during her monthly purchase cycle.
And on China now the 5% price decline does it have to do with increased competition from Procter as they launch this premium baby line or is it more like price mix as you go into lower tiers or what exactly is driving this 5% down? Should you expect this to continue that there's going to be some price erosion? Because I have a little bit of problem understanding the trade-up dynamic that you describe with the price decline that you are also citing.
Yes in China more of the price pressure has come from our non-U.S.
competitors particularly a couple of Japanese competitors that are in that market.
They've had a relatively weaker home currency and have invested some of that as they lost some share in China as we've been gaining share.
So we are trying to make sure we keep our volume momentum going and that we match up with the right price points.
And finally coming back to Brazil you basically mentioned the personal care piece that is up 10% which is very good.
The diaper growth in China the 5% is all pricing.
Did volumes decline as other companies are mentioning that is happening in Brazil? Do you have positive volumes in Brazil in diapers or did they decline? Our volumes in Brazil were pretty flat in the quarter.
So all of the improvement was price mix and we did take share leadership on diapers in the quarter in Brazil but that was really more of our other competitors shrinking a bit and we've also got fem care -- our leadership in fem care in Brazil as we have driven some innovation on both tampons and pads in that market.
So we continue to see even in a challenging market when you bring innovation and product news and bring products that mom wants consumers are still willing to invest in your category.
I guess what I'm trying kind of to finalize with picking up these three BRIC countries has to do with the state of emerging markets because back in the summer the markets sold off thinking that emerging markets after what is happening in China would decelerate further.
You haven't seen at the end of the day any change on the consumer side or something -- it's certainly not reflected in your numbers so it doesn't seem that you are gaining significant amount of share.
So do you think that -- have you seen any step down say in consumer demand in any of these key emerging markets you didn't see it versus earlier this year prior to the sell-off of China equities and the world China going bankrupt? Thank you.
I think Javier we're seeing some very modest slowdown in category growth but less than you would think and less than you've seen in some other B2B categories.
And so GDP per capita is still going up in most of these markets not the one not the economies that are in recession obviously but China for sure and lot of the Asian economies.
And so consumers still have more money to invest in our categories.
We are also still seeing super premium segments growing in a lot of these markets.
So even in Brazil where the upper tiers of the diaper categories are growing at a faster pace and they haven't slowdown appreciably.
That is very insightful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Javier.
Thank you for the question.
The next question will come from Iain Simpson with Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I missed the start of the call so apologies if these have already been asked.
But firstly you quantified the translational currency impact on profit.
Are you able to give any sort of steer as to how we should think about the transactional impact? That would be extremely helpful.
Thank you.
Yes.
If you look at -- in the quarter our translational was about 12 points on the top line.
Translation and transaction combined was approaching a north of 30 points.
If you look at it on a year-to-date basis -- Paul is it 25 points something like that? Yes.
It's about 10 points on the top line for translation and the all-in impact on earnings is approaching is 25%.
So 2 to 2.5 multiple of translation impact is a good rule of thumb.
Extremely helpful thank you.
And just secondly if I may you talked about eCommerce being about a third of your China diaper business.
Are you able to give any indication as to how that's I guess trended over the past sort of medium-term? What that number would've been a couple of years ago or five years ago or just anything to give us a sense as to kind of where that's come from and perhaps where it's going? Thank you.
Yes I think five years ago eComm in China for us was probably near zero.
Or if it was there we weren't tracking it.
And so we have put more resources against this and have grown that part of the business.
And eComm in China is growing at a faster rate than our overall business.
So we continue to see good returns there.
And ultimately we are trying to be present with the right offer wherever mom wants to shop.
And so we are not necessarily trying to shape the category in a particular direction.
We just want to be there whatever outlet or form she wants to buy her products.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Iain.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi Tom.
Good morning.
Hi Bill.
Are you concerned at all about some of the trade down in a lot of the emerging markets and like will you sort of adjust to that by maybe trying to launch some stuff at lower end specifically in Brazil and China? We were just talking about that on one of the other questions and so far we are not seeing as much as a trade down as you would think.
And we are still seeing -- we launched boy/girl diaper pants in some of the super premium kind of tiers.
We are seeing good response and growth there.
So we are watching it.
And obviously particularly the economies that are in recession like Brazil and Russia we are watching that see how the consumer performs and make sure we got the right offer but we are also seeing really good innovation.
Mom still wants the best for her baby.
These are not expensive products relative to other things and she is still willing to buy those little luxuries for her family.
Okay.
I mean just because if you look in China and in Brazil it's like Hypermarcas has taken a bunch of share and I know they're for sale.
We talked about that last time but even like Jiangnan it seems like they're making a pretty big comeback in some of the Nielsen data.
Obviously your share is growing as well.
It seems like some of mid-tier players are the ones that are getting hit.
Yes.
In eComm and super premium baby stores in China is stuff that isn't tracked as well and that's where the lot of the growth in the category is.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I know you don't want to give guidance for next year  but when do you think you're going to get sort of the peak benefit from falling commodities sort of net of the currency becoming less onerous? And I know you sort touched on it a little bit but has there been any sort of pushback by retailers on some of the pricing stuff especially on the diaper side because obviously polypropylene prices are way down? We will give you guidance in January and at this point it's still pretty volatile environment.
You look at exchange rates at the end of September and then today and they have moved quite a bit in both directions depending on where you are at.
Commodity costs have been a little bit more stable but if you still look at lot of the forecast for oil at a $20 barrel higher next year than it is right now.
And so we are still wrestling through that and we'll have a point of view for you in January when we are little closer to the year actually getting underway.
At this point we still believe our model is right continuing to look to 3% to 5% organic and delivering a positive result in margin improvement in that kind of an environment.
Okay.
And the retail discussions are they getting any more aggressive because obviously they see what's happened at least with some of the spot prices in some of your categories on the commodity side? I would say not in the U.S.
and I think and in emerging markets the currency impact dwarfs any commodity cost benefit in most markets.
Okay.
All right that's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi Caroline.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi.
I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about adult care in the U.S.
and just how P&amp;G's entry has impacted you.
I think Impressa is a different issue I guess.
It only just launched but in general sort of the non-diaper personal-care business specifically looking at adult as well.
Yes.
Since Procter has launched the category has grown a little faster and so we've seen -- we went from mid to high single-digit growth to double-digit growth and seen that happened pretty consistently.
We had double-digit growth in the quarter including the benefits of Impressa which were relatively modest but still helped us.
We have launched a lot of innovation in the last year to make sure that our consumers have the very best products we could offer available.
And so as a result I think we probably say we successful defended we have lost less than our fair share as Procter has come in and have delivered solid growth.
I'm sure when P&amp;G talks about this later this week they will talk about a successful launch and they will probably hit their share goals.
So private label and some of the other brands have taken a disproportionate hit from the P&amp;G entry.
And so in the meantime we are just keeping our foot on the gas to make sure we've got a great innovation coming in that space employees in Impressa is just another good example of that.
That's great.
Thank you.
I know you talked about Mexico getting better again.
I also missed part of the call because Coke was going on at the same time.
But it seems like Brazil is deteriorating as an economy.
What is going on in Mexico that you see good and bad over the next 12 months from where you stand? Yes Mexico is -- I am cautiously optimistic there and Pablo and the team will be on a call later this week and can give you more color but that seems executing well and they are getting some price to cover some of the currency impact that they've hit seen good volume growth and good cost savings and good margin performance.
So we are encouraged by what we are seeing there.
The economic growth and the economy has been a little slower than they would have hoped at the beginning of the year but we also see some optimism that that's going to improve going forward a bit particularly as the U.S.
economy improves a bit.
Thank you.
And then just China briefly I think you started to talk a bit about fem care which was not really in the conversation before.
Can you talk about that in more detail? Yes.
We are still a very small player in fem care in China.
We re-launched probably a little over a year probably a year and a half ago now Paul; and saw double-digit growth in the quarter.
And we are seeing some share improvements.
We are not in as many cities with fem care yet as we are with our diaper business but we are growing nicely and have good innovation there and it's around the U by Kotex type positioning with -- aimed at the late-teen early 20 young women as she is making some brand choices for a wife and making sure we got a relevant interesting product with a good commercial execution for her.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Caroline.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will turn the conference back over to you.
All right.
We thank everyone for your questions today and we will end with a comment from Tom.
Well it's another good quarter of great execution from our team and we are committed to continue forward and deliver on your expectations as our shareholders and we thank you all for your support at Kimberly-Clark.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in holding we now have your speakers in conference.
Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode.
At the conclusion of today's presentation we will open the floor for your questions.
At that time instructions will be given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask an audio question.
It is now my pleasure to introduce today's first presenter Mr.
Paul Alexander.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Kimberly-Clark's Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Tom Falk our Chairman and CEO; Maria Henry our CFO; and Mike Azbell VP and Controller.
Now here's the agenda for the call.
Maria will begin with a review of our results focusing on the full year and after that Tom will provide his perspectives on our results and our outlook for 2016 and we'll finish with Q&amp;A.
As usual we have a presentation of today's materials in the Investors section of our website.
As a reminder we will be making forward-looking statements today.
Please see the Risk Factors section of our latest annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of forward-looking statements.
We will also be referring to adjusted results and outlook.
Both exclude certain items described in this morning's news release.
The news release has further information on these adjustments and reconciliations to comparable GAAP financial measures.
And now I will turn it over to Maria.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining the call today.
Let me start off with the headlines for our 2015 results.
Our organic sales grew 5%.
That's at the high end of our 3% to 5% target.
We achieve excellent cost savings and margin improvements helping us deliver adjusted earnings per share towards the high end of our original guidance.
And finally we continue to improve our capital efficiency and return cash to shareholders.
Now let's take a look at the details for our results and let's start with sales.
Fourth quarter net sales were $4.5 billion that's down 6% with an 11 points rise from currency rate.
Full year net sales were $18.6 billion down 6% down 6% including a currency headwind of more than 10%.
Organic sales growth was about 5% for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
On profitability fourth quarter adjusted growth margins were 36%.
The full year was 35.9% up 160 basis points year-on-year.
Adjusted operating margin were 17.2% in the fourth quarter.
The full year margin was 17.3% that's up 120 basis points compared to the prior year.
I am encouraged that operating margins were up in all three business segments and across all three geographies both America developed markets and developing and emerging markets excluding the impact of the Venezuelan devaluation.
Our teams delivered $365 million of FORCE cost savings in 2015.
That was above our initial target of at least 300 million and just $5 million shy of our all time record.
We expect another strong year in 2016 with a savings target of at least $350 million.
In addition our organizational restructuring is on track and it generated $65 million of savings in 2015.
We expect additional savings of at least $50 million from this program in 2016.
Commodities were $150 million benefit for the year mostly in oil based materials.
That was at the high end of our original assumption for the year but on the other hand currency declines severely impacted our earnings.
For the year the all-in earnings drag was about 25% well above our going into the year assumption for a drag of more than 15%.
On the bottom line fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.42 bringing the full year to $5.76.
That was up 5% compared to the results from continuing operations in 2014 and towards the high end of our original guidance range of $5.60 to $5.80 per share.
Turning to cash flow and capital efficiency cash provided by operations was $2.3 billion for the year versus $2.8 billion in 2014.
A number of factors drove the lower cash amounts including our debt financed pension contributions the Halyard spin-off and higher total working capital.
I expect a significant improvement in cash generation in 2016.
We reduced our primary working capital cash conversion cycle by eight days in 2015 as a result of extending payables terms.
On adjusted return on invested capital we improved this metric 350 basis points including benefits from the spin-off at Halyard Health.
On capital allocations in 2015 we've returned $2.1 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
For 2016 we plan to repurchase between $600 million and $900 million of Kimberly-Clark's stock.
We also expect to increase the dividend at a mid single digit rate that's generally consistent with the 5% growth in adjusted earnings per share that we delivered in 2015.
Now let's look at the segments.
In Personal Care organic sales rose 7% continuing our long track record of delivering strong growth in this segment.
Our Personal Care business grew 14% in developing and emerging markets.
Operating margins were 20.5% in Personal Care up 180 basis points.
The improvement was enabled by organic sales growth cost savings and lower input costs.
In Consumer Tissue organic sales were up more than 1% including volume growth of 6% in North America.
Consumer Tissue operating margins were 17.5%.
That was up 150 basis points and includes benefits from another year of excellent cost savings performance.
In K-C Professional organic sales increased 4% overall with 6% growth in developing and emerging markets.
The segment top line also included a 1.5 point benefit from sales of nonwovens to Halyard Health in conjunction with a limited term supply agreement.
So sales should be somewhat lower in 2016.
K-C Professional operating margins were healthy at 18.3% up 50 basis points year-on-year.
To summarize our fourth quarter results capped off a very good year overall as we achieved mid single digit growth in organic sales and adjusted earnings per share we delivered strong cost savings and broad based margin improvements and we continued to improve ROIC and allocate capital in shareholder friendly way.
I'll now turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Maria and good morning everyone.
I will share my perspectives on our full year 2015 results and then I'll comment on our outlook for 2016.
So starting with this past year we delivered another year of good financial performance in a challenging environment.
As Maria just mentioned our organic sales grew about 5%.
This reflects very good execution and it compares favorably to many other consumer packaged goods companies.
Our volume growth was 4% and that's our best performance since 2007 on this metric.
Our business in the developing and emerging markets had another great year with 10% organic sales growth.
This performance was highlighted by 14% growth in Personal Care.
That's the fifth consecutive year this part of our portfolio has grown organically at a double-digit rate.
Looking at some of our targeted growth initiatives in the developing and emerging markets and in diapers our organic sales increased more than 35% in Eastern Europe 25% in China and 10% in Brazil.
Innovation across all these markets continues to help drive our growth and in 2016 we will launch more product upgrades on Huggies throughout the developing and emerging markets.
In China Huggies diapers are now sold in 115 cities and we are targeting to be in 130 cities by the end of the year.
And in Brazil as a result of the continued decline in real we have recently initiated price increases across these categories.
Elsewhere in Personal Care our organic sales in feminine care rose double-digits in developing and emerging markets.
Our performance in fem care was especially strong in Latin America led by Argentina and Brazil.
We also had a very good year in China and then the Middle East Eastern Europe and Africa on fem care.
In addition our adult care and baby wipes businesses also grew organic sales at double-digit rates in developing and emerging markets.
K-C Professional organic sales rose mid-single digits in developing and emerging markets even though demand has slowed in some places towards the end of the year.
Overall our business in the developing and emerging markets was 30% of company sales in 2015.
Even though volatility has increased and economies are slowing in some parts of the world we remain very optimistic about our growth prospects.
For 2016 we are targeting organic sales growth of at least high single digits for our business in the developing and emerging markets.
Turning to our developed markets business outside of North America organic sales for 2015 were even with the prior year.
We continue to generate very solid growth in South Korea while market conditions were relatively soft in Western and Central Europe.
Moving to our North American consumer business we delivered 5% volume growth and excellent operating profit performance.
In adult care we delivered high single digit volume growth with benefits from innovations brand investments and category growth.
Our market shares improved sequentially as the year progressed with shares up 1 point in the second half of the year compared to the first half.
In baby and child care volumes were up mid-single digits on Huggies baby wipes and low single digits on Huggies diapers.
Our second quarter relaunch of Snug ‘N Dry diapers is on track and helped deliver volume growth in 2015.
In consumer tissue volumes were up mid-single digits with benefits from market share gains good retail execution and increased promotion support.
Performance was led by Cottonelle bathroom tissue and Viva towels.
In K-C Professional in North America volumes increased mid-single digits on our higher margin wiper products business and our washroom products organic sales were up low single digits roughly in line with the overall market.
Maria has already highlighted how we continue to manage our company with financial discipline so I'll just add that I'm encouraged with our cost savings delivery our margin improvements our improvements in return on invested capital and the cash that we've been able to return to our shareholders.
I am also pleased that we delivered bottom line earnings growth towards the high end of our original commitment even though currency rates were much worse than we had planned for the year.
So all in all I am proud of our team's accomplishments in 2015.
We have good momentum overall and we're focused on driving further improvements going forward.
Now let's move on to our outlook for 2016.
We will continue to focus on the fundamentals that create shareholder value.
So in 2016 we will deliver healthy levels of organic sales growth cost savings and margin expansion.
We will improve working capital cash from operations and return on invested capital and will return a significant amount of cash to shareholders again in 2016.
At the same time we will continue to invest in our brands our growth initiatives and our capabilities in order to improve Kimberly-Clark over the long-term.
In terms of our specific 2016 targets on the top line we expect organic sales growth of 3% to 5% that's consistent with our long-term objectives.
On the bottom line we have targeted adjusted earnings per share in a range of $5.95 to $6.15.
That is up 3% to 7% year-on-year.
Similar to this past year at this point we are expecting that earnings will be higher in the second half of the year compared to the first half.
Like other multinational companies we're facing continued currency headwinds.
We're planning that currency translation will reduce sales and earnings by 5% to 6% this year.
The all-in drag on earnings including currency transaction is expected to approach 15%.
These projections are based on forward exchange rates as of a couple of weeks ago which are pretty consistent with recent spot rates in most cases.
To reduce the impact of currency headwinds we plan to raise selling prices in some of our international markets.
We're expecting a relatively benign year on the commodity front.
We're starting the year planning for a total impact between $100 million of cost deflation to $50 million of cost inflation.
Although some commodity costs should benefit from lower oil prices others like polypropylene resin in North America are being impacted by market specific dynamics.
In addition cost for materials in some international markets are expected to increase due to local inflation.
So as we said before it is important to look at currencies commodities and selling price assumptions together since they are all somewhat related.
On average we're expecting the net impact of these three factors to result in a high single digit drag in our 2016 earnings.
With that in mind the underlying growth of 3% to 7% EPS growth that we've included in our outlook is pretty healthy.
As we always do we'll continue to closely monitor the environment and we'll provide updates on our progress and outlook each quarter as the year unfolds.
So in summary we delivered another year of good financial performance in 2015.
We expect to continue our momentum in 2016 and we remain very optimistic about our prospects to generate attractive shareholder returns through our global business plans.
This wraps up our prepared remarks and now we'll begin to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eve Powers [ph] of UBS.
Hi yes it is Steve.
Thanks.
Tom maybe starting with first looking at North America it looks and sounds like competition and promotional intensity held roughly flat sequentially would you agree with that? And if so what's the assumed outlook there as you look forward to calendar 2016 just given it is all that's happening in that marketplace in P&amp;G in general? And a similar question on China given the general demand conditions there but also obviously a highly competitive market there too? Yes I think broadly the market was pretty similar Q3 to Q4 but also there was more activity in the second half of 2015 than there was in the first half.
So if you looked at percent sold on deal [ph] and the level of A&amp;P support across the category was probably increased for all the major brands.
We got quite a bit of innovation coming in 2016.
We believe are our primary competitor does as well.
So I would guess that the current level of competitive activity will continue.
We'll forget about the progress in our unit volume growth on diapers in North America and we feel like we've got good momentum on diapers and training pants for sure.
In China we saw a bit more competitive pricing being spent in the market by some of the competitors which we matched up to at some extent but we saw some of that in the third quarter as you may recall but had a very strong volume quarter again and again have lots of innovation coming.
So still tons of competition around but I wouldn’t say it is getting worse but it is continuing.
Okay thanks.
And then shifting gears a little bit given another round of devaluation in markets like Brazil and Russia et cetera what is your confidence on the continued ability to push through incremental pricing? You mentioned another round in Brazil but is there a level at which it just becomes too difficult to maintain an incrementality? Yes I think we're watching the consumer carefully particularly as you see GDP [ph] per capital go backwards in some of these markets.
In Brazil for example we saw category volumes decline a bit in the fourth quarter for both diapers and bathroom tissue which you don’t see that too often in Eastern Europe.
The Ukraine in particular has been a market that has been hard hit if you look at category volumes.
Some of that is because there has been quite a bit of parallel imports there that because of some value-added taxes that they put in place.
So we are watching the consumer.
On the other hand we've got real transaction exposure hitting these markets.
You are trying to cover the transaction cost just to try to keep the shape of the P&amp;L in order.
And I think every major CPG [ph] is in that balancing act right now.
Okay and lastly Maria if I could so based on the dividend and buyback outlooks and then combine that with CapEx and defined benefit contribution it looks as though maybe we should assume and you might be adding it again to your debt balance in 2016 is that a fair assumption or is there something I'm missing in there? And if it is fair can you just talk about how you view the borrowing environment given all the volatility we're seeing in capital markets generally and if there is a certain profile of incremental debt that we should assume or perhaps some timing that will be great? Thanks.
Sure the way that we think about it is we are very focused on maintaining our single A credit rating.
So at any point in time we're looking at whether our effected cash flows our focus is on continuing to fund the dividend to spend CapEx at healthy levels given the significant opportunities that we have in our business for high ROI return types of projects and then we look at share buyback to balance out what we do with the remainder of both our cash flow and our remaining debt capacity under that single A credit rating metrics.
So we'll see how that unfolds during the year.
You know that we set our debt up in 2015 and entered the year at $7.8 billion but as a reminder a bit chunk of that came from the debt financed pension contributions that we made in 2015 but going forward we expect stronger cash flows in 2016 from operations.
And so we'll balance those things out as we go through the year.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Hey Wendy.
Hi good morning.
A couple of things number one I think you gave us the organic sales growth breakdown for China Eastern Europe and Brazil just for the full year.
Can you give us those for the fourth quarter specifically? And then with regard to Brazil pricing do you intend to raise prices consistently across all the segments? I know there is a very big gap between the various segments and I'm just wondering how much risk of trading down there might be.
Paul will give you some of the quarterly details and then we can talk about pricing in general.
Yes Wendy for the quarter so Eastern Europe first of all was up about 25% largely due to higher selling prices.
This is in diapers.
In China organic sales were up more than 15% all driven by volume.
Volume was a little bit north of 20% in the fourth quarter.
And then in Brazil Personal Care was up about 15% diapers was about 10% with both higher volumes and selling prices.
Yes and then to your other question we are trying to be smart as we look across categories the level of pricing also is affected by the amount f innovation that we have coming.
So we can bring a better performing product we will probably be a little more aggressive on pricing in that space but we're also looking at it by peer to see what's possible.
Part of that is also driven by how much is the local content of a particular product makeup versus the U.S.
dollar components for using a ton of imported materials you are going to be more likely to have to price up for that.
And then thus far have you seen much trading down across the segments in Brazil or not so much? We've seen a little bit of the trading up trading down phenomena like we have seen in other markets where the super premium segments are growing where you’ve got real innovation and some differentiation and then you’ve seen some uptick in the value and the middle segments have taken a bit of a hit.
We’ve seen that in other markets and some other situations.
Got it and then I just had one last one on your regional operating margins means the progression in North America just continues to be fantastic but there's still a lag or the international margins are still significantly below and that makes total sense.
But my question is going forward just given that we continue to see such outsized growth from your international business there is obviously an inherent drag there on your overall margin expansion I’m just wondering kind of conceptually the FORCE savings or cost savings sort of the margin expansion priorities how much of those are oriented towards the international business versus North America so at what point do you think we will start to see that gap close? Well the good news is our international business is closing the gap and so their margins have improved this year.
So even though the sales from [indiscernible] they came much closer to the dollar target than you might think given the size of the currency hit that they took.
And so they really use very minimal margin drag on the company.
In fact this year because they shrunk as a percent of the company’s overall sales we actually had a slight margin tailwind this year from a mixed standpoint.
But getting back to the root cause we tend to focus on gross margins in emerging markets and trying to narrow that gap and narrow the gap is a little closer than operating margin because in some markets where we are investing in A&amp;P or building infrastructure to support a larger business we're not quite as efficient between the lines in the international market share but that’s one that the team is working on and our markets that are at scale like Korea you'd see margins there that are at or above the North American levels in individual categories.
Terrific that’s very helpful thank you.
Thanks Wendy.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmidt with Deutsche Bank.
Hi Bill.
Yes good morning.
Hey just one quick one how big is Argentina both sales and profits directionally and do we start getting concerned about what’s going on down there? What last year or this year Bill it’s a little small for this year…? Right.
I think it’s 2% or 3% of sales and probably similar from profits had a great year last year and part of the other expense that we took in the quarter was the devaluation that happened in mid December that part was a $0.03 hit to our fourth quarter results.
But I actually feel pretty optimistic about Argentina over the long term and so as we see the new government coming in place and they’re opening up their markets so there is some product categories for example that were imported.
Like our K-CP business for example in Argentina had to import all their safety products and we didn’t manufacture anything locally there well over the last year.
So we were not allowed to import.
So you had to kind of go out of that business.
That’s all going to open up in 2016.
So there will be a translation and transaction hit but I’m more optimistic about the future of Argentina going forward.
Okay great.
Actually just one another quick one on the working capital side is working capital going to turn positive next year because I know that's a pretty significant use this year? Yes our working capital use was a bit higher in 2015 than we would like.
There were a number of factors that impacted that including the negative impact of currency on our derivative settlements and we also had a tax receivable that moved up into accounts receivable at the end of the year.
I mean despite the use of cash we made really good progress on our per working capital metrics as I talked about in my prepared comments.
So for 2016 working capital is clearly an opportunity for us and we'll be sure to get at that and as I said our cash from operations to be significantly higher in 2016 versus 2015.
Great thanks very much.
Thanks Bill.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Lauren.
First thing on the other income line of expense so the hit from devaluation Argentina this quarter is that kind of a one quarter effect or should we think about it being at these elevated levels throughout the year? No you pretty much had the right year of payables down on the data devaluation occurred so I don’t know Maria if you've got anymore color on that? Yes we took a significant hit on the devaluation in the fourth quarter and then it will just depend what happens to the currency from here and how we have to re-measure the balance sheet moving forward.
Okay great.
And then on K-C Professional you mentioned sort of slowing demand at the end of the year in emerging markets can you talk about that also for North America if you’re seeing any slowing in demand there and your outlook for that business being the more cyclically tied piece of the portfolio? Yes I would say this we had probably different causes and different market sets and they are little softer fourth quarter on the top line than we were expecting overall for the year they had decent organic growth which is what we tend to look at.
In North America we saw some distributor inventory destocking because we look at our out-the-door sales versus our in-the-door sales in the fourth quarter.
They sold more out-the-door than they purchased in-the-door.
So I think those guys at calendar year end and they were doing some inventory level trimming as they hit their year end.
I’d say in other markets like Brazil which is a big market for K-CP there you see more just a decline in GDP has had a pretty big impact on business activity.
It has affected the key K-CP market much more than the consumer market for the year.
In other markets China kind of a mixed bag with a little weaker quarter for us and yes some of that was execution on our front that we need to improve and there is plenty of competition there probably a bit of the economic slowdown but again that market is still growing overall it’s just not at the same pace that it once was.
So lots of different issues in individual markets that kind of added up to a little less than we were thinking we’re going to get on the top line.
Okay great.
And then on cost savings so certainly notable that you’re starting the year talking about FORCE being $350 million to the question on restructuring though I think sort of came in at the lower end of the expected range for savings in 2015.
If I layer on then the $50 million you’re expecting in 2016 those still have you kind of below the $120 million to $140 million in the total realized so does this mean it extends a little bit further into 2017 or is it just going to be kind of a lower end of the range on the total program? Yes our overall restructuring program is firmly on track.
We delivered savings of $65 million in 2015 and that brings the total to date to $70 million and our guidance for 2016 is another $50 million of savings putting our cumulative level within the target range of $120 million to $140 million for the full program and we still expect to realize some additional benefits in 2017.
So we’re clearly on track in terms of the savings that we expect to realize for that program.
Lauren this is Paul.
I would just build on that.
Remember we said the charges would end in 2016 but as Maria has mentioned the savings is really through 2017.
Okay.
Perfect and just a final quizzing on SG&amp;A I know in the release you mentioned FX was impacted and I just wanted to check if there was anything else in SG&amp;A because it was a little bit higher than it might this quarter and just thinking it was mostly FX or any other kind of investments in marketing? Yes there is a couple of things you mentioned FX that clearly has an impact on the reported expense levels.
But our expenses are higher as we’re investing in capabilities and we also had some higher variable compensation expense in the fourth quarter and for the year given our strong performance.
And when you look year-over-year I think it’s probably also worth noting that we have lower levels of spend in the second half of last year so organization was really focusing on the spend and the restructuring program which is a lot of work.
And this year as we said on our second quarter earnings call again we were intending to invest in capabilities and we did that.
And Maria can you still elaborate on those capabilities? I mean is that is it people is it mostly in selling is it in marketing or is it actual dollars in the marketplace already? Yes it’s in a number of areas.
Clearly and our selling capabilities is an area that we’re focused on investing in in marketing capabilities particularly around electronic commerce as we grow in new channels and then we also had some investments in the area of IT in terms of data analytics and things like that all focused on supporting our organic top line growth efforts.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Lauren.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning Chris.
Chris are you there? Chris your line is open you need to un-mute your line if you are muted.
Our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
My question has to kind of the bigger picture of the company's earnings power right if you step back and look at 2015 you got 25% impact of currency and yet deliver if my calculation is correct nearly 30% currency neutral earnings.
This year you’re targeting something about 20% currency neutral earnings.
So if you can help us understand kind of like this sustainability of that how much of this earnings growth in 2016 has to do with savings versus leverage versus that kind of smart because one of the things that are not seen now is that the share repos are coming down relative to the past so basically the financial side of the EPS growth is less of a contributor.
So if you can explain us what is - what do you think is the earnings power of this company because 20% on top of 30% currency neutral EPS growth is pretty substantial? Thank you.
Yes Javier I think maybe the way to think about it is looking at the net of price of currency and raw material inflation or deflation and when you net those three things together it’s a little smaller drag as we talked about for 2016 is probably a high single digit drag.
So then to deliver 3% to 7% growth puts your real earnings power more in the low double-digit range which is still above where our historical average has been.
So the things that helped us get further along in 2015 it will help us again in 2016.
There has been strong volume growth and so good organic top line and a strong cost savings program and we’ve been ramping that up over the years and it’s been never more important than in times like this.
And so if you look at the organic top line drivers we feel pretty good about the innovation program that we’ve got as well as a portfolio of markets that we’re growing and where the categories are still growing there is still opportunity for geographic expansion.
On the cost savings front the three factors that are driving us there are negotiated material savings our basic productivity programs and material specification changes and we are getting organized to deliver that on a even more consistent basis going forward with some of the works that we’re doing with a new global supply chain leader.
So I feel pretty good about volume growth and our cost savings performance and hopefully that delivers the earnings power it overcome some of the currency drag and other things that we have got facing us.
And finally on North America again tissue pricing in North America down 2% is that a temporary promotional activity or do you see think that this is elements of the pass through of lower commodity prices starting to kick in and is it something that is led by you or is it something more of a reaction to say your competitors thank you.
Yes on the tissue front they didn’t really get too much of benefits from deflation in the year and more of it was oil related which benefited the Personal Care segment.
They got a little bit of transportation benefit from lower diesel and things like that but beyond that it wasn’t much benefit from deflation.
The pricing was a little bit more competitive in the marketplace and we tried to make sure we matched up to that.
I think any time you have a discussion about this it is always the other guy that started it.
So I’m sure there are some cases where we were aggressive behind innovation and trying to drive our business and that may have precipitated a response or maybe the converses through.
But I do think the overall market was a little bit more competitive.
We’ve seen that for several quarters and we feel good about the volume performance.
We grew share in 5 of 6 of the North American consumer tissue categories and we saw good margin improvement behind cost savings.
So overall I think the execution was there and we delivered on the plan and expectations for the year.
But as if I understand correctly so you basically see the Q4 is slightly aggressive pricing as something more like a one off I suppose to the pass through finally kicking in because the category has been very positive so in terms of very constructive in terms of pricing do you think that this is sustainable into 2016? You haven’t seen much commodity benefit again so our forecast is calling eucalyptus data a little bit in ’16 so that will help at the movement I’d say the competitive environment is going to be a pretty similar in ’16 to what it was in ’15.
All right thank you very much.
Okay thanks Javier.
Our next question comes from Nick Moody [Ph] with RBC.
Yes thanks.
Hey I was wondering if may be you can give us kind of a state-of-the-union on category growth globally? I mean clearly we’ve seen some dramatic headlines on the economies in general across the world but just curious what you’re seeing from a category perspective and you are expected to be flat going into 2016 or kind of decelerate or accelerate any thoughts around that would be helpful? Yes I'd say broadly we still let’s say the category opportunity is 3% to 4% on average.
If you look at a market like China we'd still say high single digit growth.
It is going to be the year of the monkey in China which is a good year and so you typically have a little bit of an uptick in the birth rate restarts with the forecasters were calling for the birth rate in the U.S.
is actually ticking up.
I’d say there are places we're watching our markets like Brazil and the Ukraine which are going negative where the GDP is as happened to see us as a very short term category issue or is there a bigger trend in place? But let’s say if you guess the category growth rate was three to four or may be rounding down closer to three reflecting some of the challenges in some markets around the world.
Great and then just one last question as you take pricing in many of these emerging markets have you seen the price gaps and dislocate with some of the local players that may not be under the same currency pressures just any context on the magnitude of may be some of the dislocation would be helpful? Yes most local markets we are playing in local currency and so you’re turning to look at transaction exposure as the driver for pricing.
So and most of these places most of the competitors including local players by pulse this is denominated in dollars or they buy super absorbent that’s denominated in dollars or they buy not lot of them that are using polymer that's priced in dollars.
And so there is a transaction exposure that affects everybody and that tends to drive pricing more than trying to price for the translation exposure.
Great thanks so much.
Thanks Nick.
Our next question comes from John Purcell with J.P.
Morgan.
Hey John.
Hi yes just a little bit of a follow up there on sort of the last comment on the pricing.
You guys are looking for a little bit more price mix sequentially in 2016 versus 2015 and the gross margin performance has been amazing with less pricing that what we’re generally seeing from peers is that something where the markets are you have good visibility because the markets are letting you take that or it’s pricing that went in later in 2015 that sort of rolling through into 2016 so I guess just what’s the visibility is that more transactional pricing rolling through mix what have you? Yes there is a mix of that I would say if you look at the markets where we’ve been most successfully getting pricing is turning to be Latin America Brazil had had quite a bit in ’15 we’ve announced some of the recent currency moves more in '16.
We'll see my guess is when Argentina the dust finally settles and the pricing rules right down there more visible there will likely be some pricing opportunities in that market.
Eastern Europe has been the other place where you have seen real currency volatility or everyone in those markets has been pretty aggressive on pricing and so that would account for most of it.
If you looked at a lot of the other developed markets like Australia where there has been a little bit of currency movement or even Western Europe you’re probably not going to get a lot of pricing for the sized currency moves that you’re seeing there.
It will be very low single digits if at all and so I think that's sort of the way it's shaking out is we've got a few hotspots where there has been big currency swings where you get price recovery because everybody is being hit with the same wave of transactional cost hits.
And then there are lots of other markets where you have and then manage with cost savings and mix or innovation or other things that are going to drive your revenue realization.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Good morning Ali.
Hey just a few questions one is on cash flow sources and uses and if you think first at level of a more detail on the working capital kind of impact this year and then how and why it's expected to go down next year so from the sources perspective? As well as why your CapEx remains in this kind of billion dollar range even after Europe and how you’re got spun-off so that’s from the sources perspective? And on the uses side your buyback range is lower than has historically been the case and if you add that to your dividend guidance you’re kind of the shareholder return seems to be a little bit off course versus what we’ve seen recently and so I’m trying to get a sense of it that’s just kind of macro concerns trying to be cautious or if there is something else going on and I am trying to adjust for Europe and Halyard Health and kind of both those so both sources of news please.
Sure let me take a crack at it and then and Tom can certainly jump in here and let me start with CapEx.
We’re fortunate to have a lot of opportunity to invest in high return capital projects that support both our top line growth and savings.
As you think about our CapEx you can think of the spend in three areas growth which supports expansion capital and also investment behind our innovations.
Cost savings which is a second category a lot of that supports the four savings that you’re seeing come through and that we talk about.
And then the third category on maintenance if we funds are operations to adequately maintain productive and safe manufacturing environment.
So those are the three categories and I think the range of $950 million to $1.50 billion is about right for our business now given the opportunities that we haven and the size of our operations and the opportunities that we have for expansions in some of the geographies.
We’ll continue to monitor that over time.
As you know we hired a head of global supply chain and wondering how our organizations will work with the finance team and the local operators to make sure that we continue to make sure that we’re optimizing our CapEx spend as we move forward.
On working capital I said that I thought out working capital usage was a bit higher than we'd like it to be.
I think they are areas of opportunities that we have in 2016 are around areas like inventory.
We talked about strong performance on payables in 2015 and so again with our global supply chain organization working with our local teams will be focusing on what we can do on the inventory side and then in ‘15 we also had some negative impacts on working capital from currency on our derivative settlements that we used to manage our exposures on the balance sheet and then also we had a large tax receivable that moved up into AR at the end of the year so when you look at the numbers after in there that’s in there too.
I think the third part of your question was around buybacks and that is back to what I said earlier that we’re very focused on maintaining our single A credit rating.
So there is as you know at certain metrics around single A and we watch those very closely and then look at how did the cash flows come in and make sure that we fund the dividends in that churn business through CapEx and then the remainder just remains how much we buyback and we use the cash flow and then any capacity that we have on the debt side within that A rating to really fund buybacks.
So depending on where the results of the operations come in will depend on the flex – within the range on the share buybacks for 2016.
Okay okay and I guess it has been over the past several years you've certainly been giving back more – then you have been carrying from few capital perspective so that obviously has an impact going forward.
Switching gears on taking prices up more in the particularly developing an emerging markets I mean the FX headwinds for both the Personal Care and the Consumer Tissue business in this quarter has been there for a while and been quite significant.
So like negative 23%.
We’re only talking about 6% price mix say in those in that market or in the Personal Care business.
So there is still a very large gap between the currency and what you’re taking from a pricing perspective.
In your goal of taking prices further up what gap should we think about between those two numbers as a target? Well the way to think about it in terms of how we’re approaching it is we are not necessarily trying to cover the translation exposure which is probably the biggest piece of it we are trying to cover the transaction exposure but as you look at our net income impacts that also includes things like the balance sheet re-measurement in Argentina that flow through other expense or any other hedging gains or losses.
And so they’re looking more like the run rate transaction exposure and the impact on imported materials and what their ongoing cost of goods is going to be and using that to think about pricing going forward and then balancing that with what your innovation plan looked like what are the things can we do to substitute the local source material and avoid the transaction exposure and so it’s a market by market approach.
And again I would say in Latin America and Eastern Europe is where you found both of those markets are just I'd say used to dealing with high inflation and so when you get hit with this people aren’t shy about taking price but other markets you’re not going to see that in Korea you’re not going to see that in Australia.
And so my last question is a little bit on that in terms of just the growth rates you’ve seen obviously in developing and emerging have been still very strong.
You have to decelerate a little bit to high single digit as opposed to low doubles but still very very strong.
Can you try to help again with how much of that is kind of shelf space gaining or distribution gaining versus same-store sales and focus if you could and then answer a little bit on China specifically given the massive volume improvements you’ve seen in massive growth you’ve seen volumes as opposed to pricing and perhaps you guys have seen it we’ve certainly seen it the disconnect in the Nielsen data in China which clearly is not perfect if you think of all channels but there is a very quick deceleration in the backend of the quarter last year and do you see that being in disconnect because online is growing more or the data is good or what’s going on there because you’re going to have to continue to get very good numbers in terms of growth in China to make some of your top line targets for this year so I’m trying to figure out data and how that’s a disconnect there? Yes and I think the biggest disconnect is e-commerce in China Ali and so Singles Day was November 11 which was huge for us as well as for all of the online players.
So that probably skewed the Nielsen data which tends to look at measured and baby stores because there was a lot of online activity in particularly in November.
But again I’d say if you were to decompose our growth in China we increased the number of cities and I think we started the year at 105 we ended the year at 115 we'll be at 130 by the end of this year.
Now each incremental city is incrementally a little bit smaller but we still are seeing good geographic expansion.
We’re still growing share in the cities that we’re in.
We’re doing a ton in e-commerce and that channel is growing pretty dramatically in China and so it’s probably a third of our diaper sales were in e-commerce which is overweighed the rest of the categories.
We’re still seeing good mid-tier super premium segment growth where we tend to do better.
So again I’d say China we are pretty bullish lots of competition but good growth in innovation coming and some geography expansion as well.
Thanks very much.
Yep thanks.
Our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Oh thank you.
Hi Lauren.
Hi sorry.
I just wanted to know if you could update us on your fiber mix because I thought it was interesting you didn’t mention you are planning assumptions for Northern Softwood.
So I was just wondering what the balance was between Eucalyptus and Northern Softwood currently? Yes we’ve been talking about eucalyptus for a while that is the biggest grade that we buy so I don’t know Paul it’s probably what two thirds of our fiber mix on the virgin pulp side I would guess is that right? It would be two-thirds of if you’re just looking at Eucalyptus versus Northern Softwood then also consume some fluffed pulp and [indiscernible].
So overall I’d say Eucalyptus is still roughly half of our fiber mix.
So it’s a bigger single grade which is why we started quoting that one versus Northern Softwood.
Okay and do you have a range for the Northern Softwood outlook? We have not given a range I mean but it should be down a little bit year-on-year.
We’re part of this take whatever receives as looking as essentially what our forecast would be.
Okay.
Do you have a sense for how your fiber mix currently compares with some of your bigger competitors in tissue in North America like is there a difference in terms of your fiber mix and then obviously what you are looking for in terms of inflation or deflation versus your competitors? So I haven’t looked at that in a while my guess would be laws that were pretty similar to P&amp;G and GP might have a little bit more variability just because some of their tissue mills are more connected to their own internal pulp sources but that would be might my hypothesis.
And then on the K-CP front we all run with a lot of recycle fiber on that front so we will be pretty similar on the K-CP front.
Okay and then move to Eucalyptus do you think that happened kind of in parallel or was P&amp;G more biased towards Eucalyptus earlier then you were? Well I think this is probably more fiber morphology than you are interested in on a Monday morning but Eucalyptus helps make tissue soft but it is not as strong as Northern Softwood.
So you get that right now Hardwood makes it soft and Softwood makes it weak or makes it soft or makes it strong.
So we’ve been trying to drive more softness and use more Eucalyptus and you’re trying to figure out what is to make the tissue stronger using other mean so that you don’t give up the strength that Northern Softwood will bring you.
So but I think there are even some markets where we’ve run a 100% Eucalyptus sheet and are able to do that and still hit adequate strength targets.
Okay all right.
Thank you so much.
All right thanks.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Jason.
Hey good morning folks.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I guess I'll pick up one question… Hey Jason we take all our calls here this morning.
So yes we'll be here until you guys run out of questions.
Oh goodness hopefully I’m the last.
I don’t think I’ll just want to be on the call all day.
But I’m going to take up where we left the last one of the questions around fiber and the outlook many people including ourselves see downside risk to pulp prices as we go to next year clearly your forecast is not coined for that only modest deflation.
Curious first if there are factors you see into that that would prevent more downside to where pulp prices go? Yes that’s a tough one to call we tend to just look at the we take two or three industry forecast - being one and I think we’ve looked at a couple of others and we don’t apply an immense amount of judgment to that.
We tend to take a look at what the predictions are calling for.
I do think the weakening of the U.S.
dollar in some of these local markets may not be fully captured in the forecasters because they’re looking at forward currency rates as well.
And so if you look at our Brazilian producer who is selling their products in dollars or Canadian producers selling their products in U.S.
dollar there is certainly you could make an argument that there could be some price decline.
From a capacity standpoint there the Canadian market should be pretty stable for a while they have to run their mills this time of the year or they freeze up there is some additional capacity coming on in Brazil but I don’t think it’s going to be until the end of 2016.
So we will see what happens at this point – we’re not – we are seeing a little bit of weaker spot prices for Northern Softwood but the Eucalyptus market has been relatively balanced and there is not a huge spot market on that at this stage.
And Jason I would just add that remember as we talked about earlier these are lot of big moving pieces in our planning assumptions but think about all of them together so if pulp does weaken more than we are expecting you could see some offsets in a bit higher promotion spending.
Sure especially in context of the higher promotional spending without any cost relief this past year you talked a little about those dynamics earlier can you elaborate more and give us a sense of sort of where you see the competitive activity settling out now and if we do see pulp relief how much worse do you think it could get? I would say the competitive activity has been relatively modest in tissue.
We've been – we've had a lot of news between Viva Vantage.
We've had some improvements on Kleenex.
We've had some upgrades on Cottonelle and so we want to make sure we get our fair share of the quality promotional support as have some of our other competitors.
The good news is you didn’t see much private label movement in the fourth quarter I think private label shares were pretty flat.
I think it was private label is up half a point on the year on bath was up a little more on towels but we were up in both categories so I think it is just the normal competitive environment and we'll see what happens going forward if you do see a big move in pulp that typically would lead to a change I think relatively modest moves that we are talking about shouldn’t have a major impact on promoted pricing.
Got it.
Thanks a lot guys I'll pass it on.
All right thanks Jason.
And at this time we have no further questions in the queue.
All right thanks everyone for the questions and we'll conclude with a comment from Tom.
Well once again we wrapped up the year with a very solid performance in 2015.
We've got great momentum and we appreciate your support of Kimberly-Clark.
Thanks for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect your phone lines.
Thank you.