At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Media participants should contact Coca-Cola Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jackson Kelly Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look at our website for this information.
Now I will turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased with our first quarter results.
Despite ongoing global geopolitical challenges we once again delivered consistent quality growth across all 5 of our geographic operating groups.
We are winning share in the marketplace.
We gained volume and value share globally in our nonalcoholic beverages as well as in both the sparkling and still ready-to-drink beverage categories.
We are winning with our global sparkling beverage portfolio.
Brand Coca-Cola grew 3% in the quarter.
In addition Fanta is our fourth global brand to surpass the $10 billion retail sales value threshold.
And we are winning with our global still beverage portfolio as Del Valle the brand we acquired in 2007 recently achieved $1 billion dollar brand status.
Del Valle is now our company's 15th $1 billion brand and our first with roots in Latin America.
Importantly we are decisively executing our 2020 Vision together with our global bottling partners and delivering consistent long-term sustainable growth.
Before we review this quarter's operating results I'd like to take a moment to address recent events in Japan in light of last month's tragic earthquake and tsunami.
First I'd like to acknowledge and sincerely thank our leadership team in Japan for their tireless efforts in helping to ensure the health and safety of our associates and the people of Japan during this time of crisis.
I'd also like to express our heartfelt appreciation to all of our Japan bottling partners who've been at the very forefront of our system's efforts to assist with immediate disaster relief.
Our bottling partners have been diligently producing distributing beverages to affected areas and restoring our business operations.
Last month days following the earthquake and tsunami I visited Tokyo to meet with our associates customers and our bottling partners to gain first-hand insight into the initial rebuilding efforts.
Given our nearly 60-year presence in Japan and our deep connection with its people we are committed to doing everything we can to help the recovery relief and rebuilding of this great country.
To date we have pledged $31 million to the ongoing relief efforts including donations of over $7 million bottles of product.
Through our Coca-Cola Japan Reconstruction Fund we're going to help rebuild schools and community facilities all across the country.
As for our business in Japan we can confirm that outside of the hardest-hit regions in North and East Japan our system's bottling operations have been only minimally impacted and all eight bottling plants in the region most affected by the earthquake are now back up and running.
We have also announced plans to reduce our power usage this summer in East Japan mostly in vending machines to ensure we are responsive to the needs of the community while ensuring our machines stay on and in support of small businesses which rely on the vending channel.
With regard to this quarter's results in Japan our volume was up 1% gaining volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages reflecting the strong momentum our Japan business built across our portfolio in the time prior to the earthquake and tsunami.
In light of recent events we are actively reevaluating our Japan business plan to ensure we will restore and sustain our momentum and meet evolving customer and consumer needs.
As this topic is top-of-mind for many of our shareowners Gary will review later in our call a very early estimate of the full year impact these recent events may have on our business in Japan.
And be assured that in the coming months we will keep providing routine and ongoing updates regarding Japan.
We appreciate your patience and understanding as we navigate through this evolving operating environment.
Turning now to our total company performance results.
Our volume grew 6% for the quarter including the benefit of our new cross-licensed brands primarily Dr.
Pepper brands in North America.
Excluding these brands our quarterly volume grew a strong 5% ahead of our long-term growth target and fueled by organic volume growth in all 5 geographic operating groups.
We are happy about these results and confident about our future as we achieve these performance results despite natural disasters political uncertainties and a global macroeconomic environment still in recovery and pressured by rising inflation and commodity prices.
As the global recovery and greater volatility continue we may see some bumps along the way as we've seen in the past.
However our strong brands and solid business fundamentals provide us with confidence that we will continue to meet and exceed our long-term growth targets.
Now let's review our performance results across our global markets in more detail beginning with North America our flagship market.
North America volume was up 6% this quarter with organic volume growth of 2% excluding the benefit of our new cross-licensed brands.
This marks a fourth consecutive quarter of positive organic growth for North America.
And importantly North America once more gained volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages this quarter.
In the United States trademark Coca-Cola gained share while Diet Coke was named the #2 sparkling beverage right behind our #1 brand Coca-Cola.
Coca-Cola Zero once again delivered double-digit volume growth in North America for the 20th consecutive quarter.
Both Sprite and Fanta continued to grow in North America up 3% and 5% respectively this past quarter.
These successes reaffirm that our system is executing the right strategies and taking the right actions to sustainably drive long-term growth across our entire North America sparkling beverage portfolio.
Turning to North America still beverages.
I'm pleased to report 8% growth for the quarter.
We have now grown volume share for our still beverages for 13 of the past 15 quarters and value share for 14 of the last 15.
Our North America juices and juice drink business delivered positive growth this quarter fueled once again by our Simply brand which grew 20%.
This marks the 17th consecutive quarter that Simply has gained both volume and value share in the U.S.
Our glacéau brands gained volume and value share this quarter growing 12% with our vitaminwater trademark up high single digits and smartwater up double digits.
POWERADE delivered impressive results growing 21% this past quarter and once again outperforming the North America sports drink category.
Our North America tea business extended its momentum delivering 12% growth for the quarter.
We also completed a transaction that began 3 years ago by acquiring the remaining interest in Honest Tea the nation's top-selling organic bottled tea company.
We are excited to fully welcome this great and innovative brand to our family.
In total our results in North America are a testament to how well our new leadership team and operating structure are working.
We remain clearly focused on our integration efforts which are proceeding as planned.
At the same time we're leveraging our strong marketing and sales capabilities to accelerate our leadership position within North America and to deliver profitable and sustainable growth.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group which was up 5% in the quarter led by double-digit growth in both China and Korea and gaining share in both sparkling and still beverages.
Our return to double-digit growth in China was driven by the effective execution of our Chinese New Year programs and sustained investment in our brands across multiple categories.
As a result our sparkling beverages gained share and grew double digits in China this quarter.
This growth was led by trademark Coca-Cola and trademark Sprite with both also growing double digits.
In fact our sparkling beverage share in China is now at the highest level we've seen in over 2 years.
Our still beverages in China also gained share and grew double digits this quarter led by Minute Maid Pulpy which was up 27%.
As discussed in our last earnings call we are introducing a wider variety of packages in China to promote affordability and enhance the consumer experience with our brands all with the focus to drive increased transactions and to build brand equity.
In support of this strategy we launched the new single-serve 300 ml package for our sparkling beverages across parts of the country and have plans to introduce a 500 ml offering nationwide this summer.
Moving now to Latin America.
Volume grew a strong 7% for the quarter including 5% growth for brand Coca-Cola.
Latin America's broad-based growth was led by Mexico our highest global per capita market and a market sometimes overlooked because of its consistently solid performance.
This quarter Mexico grew 14% including an 11% increase for brand Coca-Cola.
And we captured total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share in Mexico this past quarter continuing a trend we have consistently seen in nearly every quarter over the last 4 years.
Brazil was up 2% for the quarter despite unseasonably cold and wet weather.
Importantly our business in Brazil continues to outperform the marketplace marking the fifth consecutive quarter that Brazil has gained volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages.
And our South Latin business which includes Argentina and Chile delivered high single-digit growth capturing market share again in both sparkling and still beverages.
Our Eurasia and Africa business grew 8% in the quarter led by strong results in Russia Turkey and India.
Russia grew 27% this past quarter led by strong sparkling beverage growth.
Brand Coca-Cola grew 24% in Russia posting its fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
Additionally Fanta and Sprite also delivered strong double-digit growth in Russia this past quarter.
And our business in Russia gained volume and value share in total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages contributing more than 50% of nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage growth in Russia this past quarter.
Turkey delivered 17% growth this quarter and gained sparkling beverage share led by trademark Coca-Cola up a strong 19%.
India meanwhile once again delivered solid results growing 9%.
This now marks the 19th consecutive quarter of positive growth for this tea market.
India also once again delivered balanced growth across our entire portfolio with sparkling beverages up 10% and still beverages up 9% this quarter.
Moving now to Europe.
Volume was up 1% this region's third consecutive quarter of positive growth despite ongoing macroeconomic challenges.
We also gained share in global nonalcoholic beverages as well as in both the sparkling and still beverage categories in Europe this quarter.
Our sparkling beverages in Europe were up 1% for the quarter including trademark Coca-Cola also up 1% and Coca-Cola Zero kept its strong momentum in Europe increasing double digits once again.
Our still beverages in Europe continued to grow and gain share across multiple categories including sports drinks energy drinks and ready-to-drink tea.
Germany delivered balanced 4% volume growth.
This growth was balanced across our portfolio with sparkling beverages up 4% and still beverages up double digits leading to total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share gains.
Finally our business in Northwest Europe keeps delivering solid results with positive growth in Great Britain Sweden Belgium and France.
In fact this marks France's 11th consecutive quarter of positive growth.
Now let's return to a few of the global brands' success stories referenced at the start of today's call.
Last quarter I shared how Fanta had become our third global brand to surpass $2 billion in annual unit case sales.
Fanta is also our fourth global brand to surpass the $10 billion retail sales value threshold joining Coca-Cola Sprite and Diet Coca-Cola.
Building on this momentum we have extended Fanta's existing marketing efforts into a unified and global integrated campaign to reach consumers worldwide in regions representing 90% of Fanta's global sales volume.
This highlights both our commitment to marketing productivity as well as our belief in investing behind our global brands.
I mentioned earlier that Del Valle recently became our 15th $1 billion brand.
When we partnered with Coca-Cola Fanta to jointly acquire the Jugos del Valle business in 2007 the Del Valle brand was available in only 3 countries across Latin America with annual retail sales of under $500 million.
Today working in partnership with our entire Mexican bottling system we have expanded Del Valle to 34 flavors and varieties in 15 countries making Del Valle the first of our $1 billion brands with its roots in our Latin America region.
If we take a step back to reflect on this achievement we can see that it is the latest example of how our global system can be so nimble and flexible as well as fast in achieving success.
It is important to remember that our last 3 brands to achieve $1 billion status Simply Minute Maid Pulpy and Del Valle have all followed unique paths to success.
Simply represents a classic case study in fact of how we organically built a new brand to complement our existing juice portfolio in order to take juices and juice drink category leadership in the United States.
Minute Maid Pulpy is a great example of how we've developed a unique brand experience tailored to meet local taste in China and then leveraged our scale despite the success across multiple regions.
And now Del Valle stands as a prime illustration of how we can partner with our system to quickly achieve scale and address an area of opportunity in our beverage portfolio all across Latin America.
The growth of these brands played a significant role in our company becoming the global leader in juices and juice drinks.
Yet we believe we have really just begun to tap our global potential in this key beverage category.
As we advance our momentum around the world we're also committed to building a better tomorrow.
I've mentioned the work we're doing to support the rebuilding efforts in Japan as it always has been part of our company's DNA to support communities in need.
For example this year is the 10th anniversary of the Coca-Cola Africa Foundation.
This foundation focuses on transforming lives and empowering communities across the African continent.
We are involved in programs focused on improving access to clean water preventative health education and entrepreneurship training among others.
Over the past decade the Coca-Cola Africa Foundation has implemented more than 160 community projects in nearly 40 countries investing more than $100 million across Africa.
Looking ahead to the next decade the foundation is committed to expanding its footprint and to implementing a project in every country on the continent.
Another way we are building for a better tomorrow is by further advancing our sustainability efforts.
In the past we've talked about the advancement of our PlantBottle a package that functions like a regular fully recyclable plastic bottle but is made with plant-based materials resulting in a lighter footprint on the planet.
Last month we announced that all DASANI and Odwalla single-serve bottles in the United States would now be available in our PlantBottle.
In fact Odwalla's new packaging is entirely composed of materials derived from sugarcane making our company the first to develop and enter the market with 100% plant-based fully recyclable package.
And this past February at the CAGNY conference we announced a special partnership with Heinz to expand the use of our PlantBottle in the United States.
We are pleased to see this technology adapted by other companies as we believe that innovative collaboration and an open exchange between companies is more important today than ever especially as it relates to the environment.
As we build for a better tomorrow our efforts and performance are being recognized.
This past quarter we've been honored to receive several acknowledgments.
Fortune Magazine ranked as #6 in their 2011 list of the World's Most Admired Companies up from #10 in 2010.
DiversityBusiness magazine placed us at #4 in their list of the top 50 organizations for multicultural business opportunities.
And we received two Edison Awards including a Silver Award in the Packaging category for our PlantBottle and a Gold Award in the New Retail Frontiers category for our Freestyle fountain drink dispenser.
While all of us at the Coca-Cola Company are proud of these achievements we understand that they only represent a snapshot of where we are today rather than where we aspire to be tomorrow.
It is our good fortune to steward an incredibly dynamic global commercial enterprise and a very special brand that will celebrate its 125th anniversary in just a couple of weeks on May 8.
As we look towards the future we do so against the backdrop of a global economy that is still rebalancing.
So there is no question that we are all experiencing a complex global geopolitical climate.
Yet this complexity and the challenges they raise also bring real opportunities and exciting growth prospects.
In fact since day one of our 2020 Vision's guiding principles has been that our system has only just begun to achieve its potential.
As we look forward the opportunities before us are clearly abundant a billion people entering the middle class in the next decade the corresponding political economic and social rise of the emergent world and an unparalleled expansion of cities personal mobility technology and education.
Today we live in a paradoxical world of remarkable promise and great challenges.
Yet together with our bottling partners we've been preparing for this world aligning our system behind the strategies and priorities called in our 2020 Vision.
This strong alignment has not only helped us navigate recent storms it has put us in a position of real strength.
The growing strength of our brands and our consistent operating and financial performance are proof positive of how we are steadily and strategically advancing our global momentum.
That is why as we look ahead to 2020 and beyond we are confident that our system is well positioned to meet and exceed our long-term targets and to usher in a new era of winning for all of our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar.
Good morning everyone.
As Muhtar shared we're off to a good start this year advancing our momentum with 6% worldwide volume growth and the delivery of another quarter of consistent quality growth in line with our expectations.
We feel particularly good about these results since we delivered them while productively integrating our North America business and while navigating several unforeseen global events including the tragedy in Japan the unrest in the Middle East and a volatile global commodity costs environment.
While as expected there are many puts and takes to consider in reviewing our quarterly results and I'll go through all of those I want to affirm that except for Japan we do not see any of these puts and takes changing our full year bottom line expectations.
In fact this quarter's good results are a testament to our global system's ability to execute our strategic plans in keeping with our 2020 Vision and long-term growth targets.
So let me start by reviewing our earnings results for the quarter.
As outlined in our release we reported comparable earnings per share of $0.86 up 7% versus the prior year and in line with our long-term growth targets.
While this result came in $0.01 below consensus in many analyst models it includes a $0.01 dilutive effect from the timing of marketing expenses as we are required to conform our newly acquired North American bottling business to the Coca-Cola Company's accounting policies.
Let me take a moment to explain what this accounting treatment means in plain English.
As many of you know we apply something we call a sales curve accounting policy to our marketing expenses which means we recognize marketing on a pennies-per-case basis.
So basically the same pennies-per-case of marketing for the full year as we spread the marketing across the year.
For example when we sponsor and activate an event like the recent NCAA March Madness basketball tournament rather than recognizing the entire costs of the sponsorship in the quarter we recognize the costs over the full year in line with our estimated volume along with all the other marketing.
Once our 2011 quarterly business plans were finalized in the first quarter of this year we began to apply the same accounting policy to marketing expenses associated with our newly acquired North American business.
The application of this sales curve accounting policy pulled incremental marketing expenses into the first quarter results diluting our comparable first quarter 2011 earnings per share by $0.01.
As we couldn't tell you about this accounting adjustment until we finalized our quarterly business plan spreads we realize out that many of you do not have this accounting reflected in your model.
As you consider how to model this adjustment going forward please note that this sales curve dilution will reverse itself in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our first quarter results also reflect the effect of the recent tragic events in Japan on our business.
As Muhtar mentioned earlier we finished the quarter in Japan up 1%.
But prior to the March 11 earthquake and tsunami our business was actually on track to deliver quarterly volume growth of 3% to 4%.
Although it is impossible to precisely calculate what might have happened our best estimate is that recent events in Japan had a $0.01 dilutive effect on our first quarter's comparable earnings per share due to lost revenues primarily related to shifts in product packaging and channel mix.
Separately we have identified a set of onetime items in Japan this quarter primarily related to bottler assistance and our $31 million Reconstruction Fund that totaled approximately $80 million dollars.
These are duly reflected in our GAAP non-GAAP tables and have no impact on our comparable results.
Finally our very early estimate of how events in Japan may further influence our full year results is that it could dilute the rest of our full year comparable earnings per share between $0.02 and $0.04.
We expect the majority of this impact to fall in the third and fourth quarter.
As Muhtar mentioned earlier our Japan team is doing everything they can to restore our business in Japan.
And going forward I can assure you that we'll keep providing routine and all new on updates regarding our business in Japan.
We also expect that many of you have questions regarding our updated currency and commodity outlook especially as both continue to move in today's volatile marketplace.
Let me start with currencies.
Since our last earnings call in February we've seen a higher benefit than expected from currency.
Considering both our hedged positions and current spot rates we now believe that currencies will have a low to mid-single-digit positive benefit on our operating income on a full year basis.
But before you flow this currency benefit through to our bottom line please note that since our last earnings call we've also seen our total company commodity costs exposure for this year increase by approximately $250 million to $300 million primarily driven by continued rise in the price of PET.
While PET is not a commodity that can be hedged we are actively pursuing and executing plans to mitigate and offset some of this increase including the acceleration of several supply chain initiatives that would reduce our overall commodity exposure.
In addition we are strategically leveraging our brand pack channel and pricing strategies where and when appropriate to further balance this exposure.
For example we recently announced our plans to raise prices on our refrigerated orange juice products in North America by 6% to 9% starting in April.
As a result and based on our current and best estimates we expect our ongoing pricing and supply chain efforts as well as our improved currency benefits to have offset almost all of the $250 million to $300 million increase in 2011 commodity costs exposure over the course of this year.
And please note that we are continuing to actively hedge our commodity and currency exposures.
This past quarter we had net unrealized gains of $36 million related to our hedging activities on commodities.
Consistent with how we treated these gains in the fourth quarter of 2010 we elected to exclude the gains which would have been a benefit of $0.01 per share to our comparable earnings results.
For your reference we have called out our net unrealized hedge gains in the notes to our GAAP and non-GAAP schedule and will continue to do so in our future earnings reports.
Let me share one final note before we go in the details of our operating results.
Now that we are integrating our North America business it is operating as a single consolidated entity for financial reporting purposes.
For example pieces of our North America business that used to operate in a concentrate model are now operating as a finished goods model.
In addition we now have single sales teams that sell of our products across customer accounts in a way that is no longer comparable to how our brands were sold prior to the Coca-Cola Enterprises North America transaction.
Integrating and changing the way we run our North America business is a necessary step in order for us to release the synergies associated with this transaction.
As a result we are simply unable to separate out the results proportions of Coca-Cola Refreshments that used to be a part of CCE North America.
This means that when reviewing our North America and total company results there will be several financial statement line items and calculations that will look different to you this quarter than they have in the past and will continue to look different through the balance of this year until we fully cycle the effects of the CCE transaction.
To best help you understand our business and performance this year we'll keep providing you with comparable currency neutral results consistent with how we've always communicated our results.
Having said that we recognize that some line items are significantly altered due to the CCE transaction.
In those cases we'll supplement our financial results with additional commentary in order to always provide you with as complete a picture of our underlying business performance as possible.
For the quarter comparable operating income was up 10% including a 3% benefit from currency.
Further our business delivered comparable net revenue growth of 40% benefiting from a 4% increase in concentrate sales a 2% currency benefit positive price mix and a significant increase due to our recent CCE transaction.
This quarter's price mix calculation is an example of a calculation that looks different this quarter as a direct result of the CCE transaction.
We understand that price mix is a key metric for understanding our results.
We therefore estimated that our first quarter retail pricing in North America was positive between 1% and 2%.
We can also confirm that our combined international and Bottling Investment Group price mix was up 2% this quarter.
So based on this our total company price mix was positive this quarter in line with our full year guidance and consistent with our long-term growth targets.
Looking at a few other line items where those calculations where influenced this quarter by the CCE transaction comparable currency neutral gross profit growth of 30% comparable currency neutral cost of goods sold rise by 53% and comparable currency neutral SG&amp;A expenses increased by 49%.
To better understand this quarter's SG&amp;A it's helpful to look at our consolidated results in pieces.
First as you would expect North America's SG&amp;A is clearly higher due to our acquisition of CCE's North America business and the application of the sales curve accounting policy to our marketing expenses resulting in unfavorable operating expense leverage.
This increase in SG&amp;A will remain through the year until we fully cycle that acquisition.
Second our Bottling Investment Group's SG&amp;A was up 5% on a comparable currency neutral basis excluding structural change such as Norway and Sweden.
This is to be expected as we make strategic investments to further expand our production and sales capabilities in key growth markets in line with the guidance provided in our last call.
Third our international operating segment's SG&amp;A was slightly up this quarter due to an increase in our direct marketing expenses as we remain committed to investing in our brands for long-term growth.
Taking these increases in SG&amp;A in consideration and considering the dilutive effect recent events in Japan may have had on our full year gross profit we now anticipate our company's operating expense leverage to be even for the full year.
Similarly and not surprising our gross margins for this quarter were also influenced by the inclusion of the CCE transaction that results as North America becomes a larger portion of our consolidated gross margins.
It's important to note however that both our international operations and our Bottling Investments Group saw positive comparable currency neutral gross margin growth in the quarter after excluding structural items.
Finally this quarter our cash flow from operations was $458 million.
Part of this is attributable to the inclusion of CCE's North America business in our results as these operations have traditionally required increased levels of working capital in the first quarter.
In addition please note that this cash flow result is net of $769 million in contributions made to our pension plans as part of our previously announced 2011 contribution schedule.
For the full year 2011 we plan to contribute about $800 million.
So pretty much all of it already contributed in the quarter.
Now let me take a moment to update our view on a few other items related to our 2011 outlook.
Our productivity initiatives are well on track and will deliver $500 million in annual savings by the end of this year as per our original plan.
As for synergies related to the CCE transaction we can reaffirm our commitment to capture between $140 million and $150 million of net cost synergies in 2011.
With regard to our share repurchase program we've been active in the marketplace and are well on track to achieve at least $2 billion and $2.5 billion in share repurchases over the course of the full year.
As for equity income we recently sold our ownership stake in Embonor and thus will no longer recognize equity income from Embonor results.
Looking forward equity income will also be affected by the proposed merger between the Embotelladoras Arca and Grupo Continental in Mexico.
If and when this deal is approved and completed our ownership in the new company would be reduced so that we would no longer apply the equity method of accounting to the resulting entity.
So our best estimate there when you consider the sale of our ownership stake of  Embonor as well as the expected change in accounting resulting from the proposed Arca-Continental merger our company's equity income would decrease by approximately $0.01 on a full year basis.
Finally with respect to our tax rate our underlying effective rate stands at 24% in line with the full year estimate range of between 23.5% and 24.5% provided in our last call.
In closing we are greatly encouraged to see our business deliver another quarter of solid volume revenue and profit results.
Our seasoned management team and our highly capable global bottling partners are clearly taking the right actions and executing the right strategies to advance our global momentum and drive our 2020 Vision.
We remain confident that we'll keep winning in the marketplace enhancing the health of our brands and driving long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And sir our first question comes from Carlos LaBoy from Crédit Suisse.
Can you shed some light on the drivers that sustain this momentum going into the second half? But I think if you could please direct a portion of your answer to the Bottler Investment Group [Bottling Investment Group] performance I think specifically we'd like to hear if you can expand on China? How important is Pulpy to the relative mix there now as it continues to grow? In India what drivers sustain the growth in the second half? And in the Philippines you always seem to use these macro downturns or these economic periods of difficulty to reset the business in your favor.
How do you modify the Philippine plan to win in this inflationary environment? This is Muhtar.
Let me just start.
I think what you saw in the first quarter global -- huge global geopolitical challenges natural disasters.
And I'm very pleased I can say that we have delivered consistent quality growth across all 5 of the geographic operating groups.
That gives me confidence about going into the year.
We're winning with our global sparkling beverage portfolio.
Brand Coke again grew an impressive 3% in the quarter in addition Fanta which is our fourth global brand passing the $10 billion retail value.
So with growth in all 5 geographic operating groups excluding our cross-licensed brands of 6% internationally and if you look at -- it's important to look at what we're cycling each quarter.
We are consistently delivering volume growth in line with our long-term targets or above.
And what you see from an international perspective is Q1 of 2010 we're cycling 5%.
So we're actually increasing the momentum.
Last quarter of 2010 Q4 was 5% international.
We're again accelerating that growth in the midst of huge economic political and natural challenges.
So I think that gives us confidence as we go into the year.
And again when you look at our U.S.
business delivering again the fourth consecutive quarter we're investing.
As we do this our brands are now getting healthier.
Our share results market share and value share volume and value share results in this past quarter are the best we've seen in a long time.
And in fact we have a chart that shows by category by region share.
Except for 1 metric on that chart everything is green this past quarter which we haven't seen it like that for a very long time.
So again India and China you've referenced I think China as we -- Q1 sparkling gained volume share.
Q1 still gained volume and value share and sparkling beverage share as I mentioned in the call in my remarks is now at the highest level we've seen in over 2 years.
And we're making some proactive changes to our packaging architecture in China.
Our bottlers are investing.
When you look at the investment plan that we announced back in 2009 we are ahead of that with $2 billion from '09 '10 'and '11.
The 3 plants that we opened last year have all come -- are all contributing to being a part of the communities that they serve.
And that India again we took a sizable price increase in Q1 and held with it in Q1 in 2011 and chose to maintain it in the face of aggressive discounting from various factions.
And again we delivered very impressive results with brand Coke growing Sprite growing thumbs up we're growing in a very healthy manner as well as our still portfolio led by Maaza growing.
So overall that gives me confidence when I see our brands.
And just last point in China Pulpy was up again almost 30% and then you asked about the Philippines.
I think Philippines post-elections have been a very challenging environment after the heat -- the economy was heated artificially pre-elections and what we're doing is making sure that our business stays healthy.
We invest in our brands in the Philippines.
Our brand metrics are getting stronger in the Philippines.
And Philippines in this quarter was down in volume but we believe that we are doing the right things in the Philippines to win in the long term.
And as far as the Bottling Investment Group is concerned if you actually take out the structural elements related to Sweden Norway and so forth actually it was up 3% just similar to the same period prior year.
So we're happy with the healthy performance also of BIG.
Germany as you can see is beginning to look like really a turnaround story again another quarter of healthy growth and gaining share in Germany against all the challenges that we have with the marketplace there in Germany as it relates to discounts or so.
We are winning again in all channels in Germany now and it's beginning to look like a very positive story.
So that's what I would like to sort of frame up.
I don't know if I missed anything but that's how I frame your question Carlos.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to probe a little bit more.
If we could ask for more visibility on what is going on with Germany.
That 4% number is a good number.
Can you talk about 2 things Muhtar? #1 what you think is driving that the role of spending in that? And then #2 as we think about your gross margin outlook for Germany you've got potentially the benefit of some volume leverage potentially the benefit of mix.
Potentially some positives there in the GM side.
But of course commodities are a challenge.
So how are you thinking about the gross margin outlook for Germany as well at the bottling level.
I think first as you see all restructuring that we've been involved in for the past 36 months in Germany is beginning to pay out as volume grows in that restructured and more productive infrastructure that we have both in terms of production as well as distribution as well as warehousing in Germany.
And then with strong brands when you look at brand Coke again in Germany which was actually up 4% supported by very strong marketing and then some other brands Sprite a very healthy growth up almost 7% very good brand portfolio metrics in Germany.
And also still beverages doing very well like Nestea in Germany.
So overall I would say that gross margins we don't give forward-looking outlook.
But I'd to say that we're pleased with the improvements we're seeing across our margins in Germany particularly as the benefits of the restructuring are beginning to come alive as the volume is beginning to pick up in multiple channels in Germany.
And then also I'd like to stress all the work that is being done by our Bottling Investments Group under the leadership of Damian in Germany is also beginning to show in the immediate consumption transactions in Germany.
Mark it's Gary.
One other thing to recognize as well is that when you referenced commodity costs versus Germany remember that all of those -- most of all of those commodities are priced in dollars.
And I was talking about in the prepared remarks there is an inter-relationship to a large extent between commodities and currency.
And so in Germany with the strength of the euro is offsetting some of the costs of commodities as well.
So you get different views on commodity costs if you look at different countries.
And one last thing Mark please note that this is the highest absolute unit case volume sales in Germany we've seen in a decade.
And the way the bottling business works if you look at this restructured more productive leaner system that we have in place after the hard work of the last 36 months and as you sort of model increase in volume that translates into better margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Helpful stuff.
If I could make one follow-up there.
Muhtar the role of package mix in the bottling operations you mentioned immediate consumption.
But how impactful how beneficial is package mix affecting the bottling ops there.
Are you talking about Germany or...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Germany specifically yes.
I think the only way that we have begun to win with discounters is through a very decisive and very novel and innovative packaging strategy.
So you've seen us employ a very innovative packaging strategy in order to be able to be represented with all our brands and also the discounted channels.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Gary thanks on the detailed explanation from the puts and takes on the quarter.
A couple of other points I just wanted to clarify.
With the 7% operating profit growth in the quarter currency neutral you mentioned the commodity hedged timing the market spend timing we also have the Easter shift and 1 less shipping day.
So trying to best understand your underlying operating profit growth do you view it as high single digits when you account for those other puts and takes? Yes Bill.
In fact this is one of the difficulties as you know it's -- let's say -- 1 less shipping day the Easter shift et cetera.
You're now into estimates of what might it have been and those kinds of things which is why I did not try to actually quantify those.
But there are couple of things we know we can quantify.
If you put the impact -- if our best estimate is that the impact of Japan is $0.01.
The impact of the sales curve on CCR in North America is $0.01 and that wouldn't just reverse this Q1 in Q4.
But if you just put those things together right there that's 2 to 3 points on OI growth just those 2 things.
And then the hedges that we took the commodity hedge gains that's another $36 million another $0.01.
We took those out.
Those will go back in kind of primarily third quarter-ish timing.
But that's another 1.5 points of growth on OI.
So that's why we feel comfortable.
I mean it's a dynamic world out there.
But we feel comfortable with all the puts and takes.
There's some real bad things like the tragedy in Japan.
There's some good things where we've made some decisions to change accounting policies and it's a Q1 Q4 quarterly thing.
It doesn't impact the year at all but we just think it's the right way to go.
And one other thing to add Bill also you have to see that we are continuing to aggressively invest in our brands.
And that is something so in the quarter you will see -- you will have seen continued growth in direct marketing and marketing expenses.
And again that is something that we are very adamant to continue despite all the different challenges of commodities and other things that are happening around the world.
LLC</strong> Great.
And Gary on the Easter shift the reason it's also more complicated now into the timing shift but now with the accounting of CCE the concentrate was booked in the Q1 last year and now shifted into Q2 this year.
It's booked along with the bottler case sales.
So that was also a complication how to model the timing on that correct? You're exactly right.
And in fact Bill I was sitting with some of my finance people yesterday and we were going through exactly that and going through what do we think the impact of the Easter shift was because we're actually starting to focus as you might imagine on quarter 2.
And then we got into Okay so what does this shift in July 4 do? And what days do they fall in the week? If it turns out July 4 is a Monday if you look.
And so that's part of as we're kind of looking.
But you do have -- you're actually right.
You' have both impacts.
You got the calendar impact.
And then because of the acquisition you've got the impact of when the revenue is actually recognized in the financial statements.
LLC</strong> Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from John Faucher from JP Morgan.
So I wanted to follow up a little bit on the North America price mix commentary which you guys said I guess in the call you said 1% to 2%.
Can you talk a little bit about mix and how we should view mix now that the gap between full revenue cases and concentrate cases is different? I assume we're just going to see significantly less full revenue case mix et cetera.
And then as we look at the scanner data that we get the pricing doesn't sort of flow with that.
So can you talk a little bit about the price pack architecture and sort of how we should look at changes sort of package versus package versus different packages coming through and also some of the channel differentials right now? John I think first what I would like to state is that in North America particularly in the U.S.
sparkling IC transactions again grew this past quarter.
That's the second quarter in a row.
And prior to this you'd need to note that transactions had declined every quarter dating back all the way to 2007.
So that's something that again we're focusing on very heavily to continue to drive transaction.
So I think in regards to transactions overall we grew IC package volume a good 2% which would translate to overall transaction growth for the portfolio.
So that is very positive and that somewhat compensates also for the price of the increases that had been referenced as 1% to 2% in the last call.
What I'd like to also frame for the remainder of the year though is that we will be looking at every opportunity every opportunity in North America to see if we can generate a higher price than the overall 1% to 2% and more like maybe 3% to 4% as we look into the balance of the year.
And we believe that our brand strength will allow us to generate a higher price increase than the 1% to 2%.
And at the same time we will be diligently again putting all our efforts to grow IC transactions in the United States.
And recognizing that  higher price increase may have some volume impact but driving transactions will be the key in North America.
And I don't know if Gary would like to add to your other question that is related to the revenue realization given that the business is now operating as one integrated business.
One other thing I'd like to add is that again the 16-ounce package was up double digits again in the quarter which is giving us again goods metrics for the future.
John Gary.
Just a couple of things on North America that I want to focus on and reemphasize one thing that Muhtar just said as well.
When we look at it we took different pricing percentages on different packages and different channels obviously as you would expect in North America.
But the weighted average of all of that is in the 1% to 2% range.
That's announced.
That's in the market and we're getting that.
So we have to kind of look at the scanner data that you're referring to because a lot of -- remember that Nielsen and ROI only covers about I think about 40% of the U.S.
our U.S.
market that there's so much that that's not in Nielsen and ROI.
So that's the large part out of it.
But then as Muhtar says we're going to look at additional pricing this year in the U.S.
as well.
Now with that said I want to emphasize something else he was talking about which is on driving on transactions.
And we've all talked volume for years and years but transactions is really about creating health for the brand wealth and really drives sustainable long-term value we think for the brand.
And you saw us downsize packages in North America going to the 14- and 16-ounce and the reason to do that was to drive transactions and recruit and rerecruit users of our brands.
You will see us doing the same kinds of things of downsizing in other countries as well.
So that is going to have an impact on volume results But if you will help drive transactions and could be an implicit kind of price increase as well where you downsize a package but hold the price and can get pricing as well.
And you'll see us doing that in different markets around the world as we talked about it.
So all in all I think you're seeing some actions that we're taking that we think will prove good long term for the health of brands as well as build value for the company as well.
Great thanks.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I wonder if you could address 2 things.
I mean in order to cover the commodity costs pressures I'm assuming there you mainly feel them in North America and in the Bottling Group.
How much pricing would be required to fully offset that if you did not have anything else to work with in terms of cost cuts? And then I'm just wondering if you could tell us a little bit more about how things are operating in Japan and where the earnings drag might be? Is it a mix shift? Is it that you need to give away product? Is it the cost of doing business? Just a little more insight into Japan.
As far as commodity Gary signaled some levels of commodities the updates in terms of the additional commodity pressures that are coming into our business.
Yes you were right in saying and looking at the fact that as far as commodities impact for our business is concerned it's mainly North America and BIG.
But we look at this holistically across the world from a system point of view and there's some hedges in place.
There puts and takes.
So it's not just a simple equation here's the number and how much price increase would you need.
All we can signal is that as obviously you mentioned -- you heard me talk about -- I mean it's consumption this is growing.
That is a big benefit when you have -- because those packages have a higher margin.
They have a higher price.
And as the mix shifts in favor of immediate consumption then obviously we get the benefit and a windfall and we don't have to go out and take pricing across all categories all channel.
That's the way we kind of think about our business.
You heard me again in my comments talk about the new packages coming on stream in China.
You see us doing the same thing in the Philippines across the whole world Germany many new packages.
So I think we're employing a much more flexible fast nimble brand-priced pack channel architecture that is designed to ensure that we don't have to take across-the-board pricing.
And that's why this business of ours actually performs so well across the world in such troubling macroeconomic -- in such a troubling microeconomic environment.
And also by the way if there isn't going to be an inflationary period coming that will benefit us overall as a business as a system as a structure as a category.
So I think all of that bodes well for how we look at the future.
I think the other part of the question was related to Japan.
And I'd like to just stay in Japan that I said that all the plants that are in the impacted area 8 plants are back up and running.
Really if you're talking about somewhat of a shift in channels I think the vending channel obviously because a lot of factories were not able to operate fully in Japan.
So there is a shift in channel there is a shift in the business.
That's going to have some impact.
And then overall I think supply chain is still stressed in Japan in terms of being able to supply the market in terms of being able to empty out the warehouses in terms of being able to distribute effectively.
All of that will be part of the numbers that Gary mentioned as far as the full year impact in Japan is concerned.
However let me just stress this.
Just prior to the earthquake our business was up 4% in the quarter in Japan until the earthquake hit.
So we were having very good positive momentum on top of a good year last year with our brands with our portfolio all 4 cylinders of our Japan business firing well.
And therefore one fundamental of the business is really the brand health.
And given -- and our bottlers are investing again and are very eager and have done fantastic work in normalizing the business in Japan.
So overall I think Gary mentioned the sort of scope of what may be the impact and we'll try to mitigate everything we can.
And I think Gary just wants to add something to that.
Caroline I would just add a couple of things and just a little more detail to what Muhtar has told you.
All the plants are back up and running.
But we've got -- the bottlers have a lot of large automated warehouses and those are not all back up and running.
And so we still have supply chain issues in the country.
Additionally not only do you have channel mix issues as Muhtar referenced you've got in shifts in product mix as well.
But probably and most importantly and this is where you will see a lot of the impact come through as well what would normally be happening today is that the bottlers would be just running plants full bore kind of building finished stock inventory for the summer selling season.
We're not able to do that.
And so what's going to happen is beginning about third quarter and this is why I was referencing the impact of really the third and fourth quarter is that we're not going to be able to supply all the demands as we believe because we're not going to be able to manage and build up inventory stocks ahead of time as you normally would in a normal year.
So that's -- well we think we saw an impact in the first quarter that will probably rebound a little bit in the second quarter just around concentrate shipments and then it's going to reverse back in the third and fourth quarter is kind of what we think is going to happen.
Thank you so much.
And we'll keep updating you as we go along Caroline.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dara  Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
So I have just 1 point of clarification Gary.
The pricing environment potentially improving in North America in the balance of the year is that more in the sparkling side of the portfolio or more in the still side? And I assume the more robust expectation is due more to less price increases as opposed to mix is that correct? Well couple of things I would say it's going to be -- it would be balanced and if we took you through our pricing architecture in North America.
It's actually not -- it's actually pretty complicated.
I was going to say not as simple as you would think it would be because you basically got different pricing on different packages on different brands by channel and so you're going -- you've got different elasticities of demand by package.
So you're going to implement different pricing for those different SKUs at about by channel.
But we are expecting to see we have talked about 1% to 2% pricing in North America.
We're now saying that we're going to probably be going for more pricing than that this year and a lot of that is just strictly the environment that we're in.
So that's the way we would see it right now.
That's helpful.
Just taking a step back and looking in North American margins longer-term obviously this year they'll be hurt by the bottler consolidation and some of the commodity inflation.
Yes.
But I was hoping you could highlight for us conceptually the longer-term opportunity you have beyond 2011 in terms of expanding your North American margins given they're still below some of your other regions and what are the key drivers of that would be.
The key of the drivers are going to be IC pushing really making sure that we win every transaction growing transactions growing the immediate consumption channel.
There's so much work to be done still opportunities to be had in the immediate consumption channel in the independent stores in merchandising in making our products much more desired and making and creating inspiration at the point of sale in those IC channel just like what in a way you saw us do in Philadelphia and I think CCR and their state of leadership has got the right organization.
We've got the right investments in place.
And then we have our brands are healthy.
That all that translate if we execute well which we intend to do then you will see us expanding margins as IC business grows and as our smaller packs take more attraction inside the 4 walls of our every single customer which we serve.
Thanks so much.
And Gary just 1 last clarification.
Did North American profit come in line with your own internal expectations in the quarter? Yes.
In fact they came in slightly ahead of our internal expectations.
Thanks.
Good.
Thank you.
In closing I'd like to thank many of you who attended our recent presentation at both CAGNY and CAGE conferences this past few months.
Our results as well as our management team's performance and track record provide us confidence in our company today as well as our path forward to 2020.
We will keep generating strong cash flows and redeploy that cash to invest in our brands grow our business and reward you our shareowners.
We will continue to invest alongside our system and execute flawlessly on our 2020 Vision by working closely with our global bottling partners our employees our customers and all our key stakeholders.
We see tremendous opportunity ahead for our company in all of our markets and remain intently focused on implementing our strategic priorities to generate long-term sustainable growth.
Most of all we thank you for interest and investment in our company.
There's no greater responsibility than earning and maintaining your trust and confidence.
So rest assured we are working tirelessly to protect and grow the value of your investment in our company.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jackson Kelly Vice President and Director Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Thank you and good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objective and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time-to-time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying that we're pleased with our strong second quarter results a quarter in which we delivered performance results ahead of our long-term growth targets making this the fifth consecutive quarter we've either met or exceeded our long-term growth targets.
We're winning in the marketplace leveraging our strong brands coupled with strong solid execution to gain volume and value share globally in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
We're winning with our Global Sparkling Beverage portfolio led by brand Coca-Cola which grew a solid 4% in the quarter.
We're winning with our Global Still Beverage portfolio which was up 7% for the quarter and up 9% year-to-date and we are achieving these results during a time of mixed economic recovery which is a testament to our strong brands and solid business fundamentals.
Before I review our quarterly operating results in more detail let me take a moment to share some further thoughts on today's mixed global economic landscape.
The economic recovery is weak here in the United States as well as in Europe Japan and across most of the developed western world.
Many middle-class consumers especially those in developed economies are still feeling somewhat confused and fragile.
At the same time however many emerging markets are doing quite well especially those in Latin America Eurasia key countries like India China and other fast-growing regions like Sub-Saharan Africa.
With this as a backdrop our focus is on maintaining a long-term vision of where the world is headed and in turn where The Coca-Cola Company wants to go.
For us that road map for winning is represented by our 2020 Vision a vision shaped together with our global bottling partners and a vision we are confident is ushering in a new era of winning as we continue along the path to 2020.
We estimate that by decade's end there will be 1 billion new consumers entering into the middle class.
Additionally massive urbanization will take place over the next 10 years with another 800 million or so consumers moving to cities.
These consumers are going to generate an increased demand for ready-to-drink nonalcoholic beverages which is our business.
Yet with a vision you also need a conviction and belief followed by investment.
To that end we're investing for growth all around the world in alignment with our global bottling partners.
We're investing in highly developed markets such as North America where we are both investing to support our brands via marketing as well as building new facilities renewing existing facilities and upgrading our selling and execution capabilities.
In total our system has made commitments to invest more than $25 billion over the next 5 years in markets all across the world.
Our management's focus and our system-wide investments are paying off today as we execute our 2020 Vision from a position of real strength.
Turning now to our total company performance.
We realized strong worldwide volume growth of 6% for both the quarter and year-to-date including the benefit of our new cross-licensed brands primarily Dr.
Pepper brands in North America.
Excluding these brands our volume grew 5% for the quarter and year-to-date ahead of our long-term growth target with over 30% of this quarter's incremental growth generated in our BRIC markets.
As for our profit results we grew comparable earnings per share by 10% this quarter bringing our year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 9% at the high end of our long-term growth target.
Now let's briefly review performance results across our operating groups beginning first with North America our flagship market.
North America volume was up 4% this quarter with organic volume even versus prior years cycling 2% organic growth from prior year.
Importantly North America gained both volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages this quarter reaffirming our commitment to driving balanced growth.
Our investments in sparkling beverages in North America continued paying dividends as we gained volume and value share in the Sparkling category this quarter.
Coke Zero delivered double-digit volume growth in North America for the 21st consecutive quarter while Fanta was up high-single digits in the quarter building on its year-long positive momentum.
We're also expanding the footprint of our innovative Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispenser.
We're in 50 U.S.
markets today putting us well on track to meet our target to be in 80 markets by year end.
As far as still beverages in North America we delivered positive growth and gained share for the fifth consecutive quarter.
A leading driver of this growth was POWERADE which delivered 9% growth and gained both volume and value share in the Sports Drink category this quarter.
Our Energy portfolio saw double-digit volume growth in the quarter with our NOS Energy brand up a strong 13%.
Our key portfolio delivered mid-single digit growth led by yet another quarter of double-digit volume increase for our Gold Peak brand and our Simply brand delivered its 26th consecutive quarter of positive growth while also taking industry-leading pricing of 6% to 9% offsetting commodity pressure.
And we're making excellent progress with our ongoing integration at Coca-Cola Refreshments which is proceeding as planned and has enabled strong execution of integrated marketing and commercial programs.
So as a result we remain confident that we have the right strategies and the right plans in place for North America as we continue to be excited about the outlook for our business in this key market.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group where we are investing for growth across our markets.
Overall the Pacific Group volume was up 7% in the quarter led by double-digit volume growth in China up 21% and South Korea up 16%.
Importantly we gained both volume and value share in the Sparkling category with trademark Coca-Cola up 4% in the Pacific Group for the quarter.
In China trademark Coca-Cola grew 23% this past quarter its strongest growth since the second quarter of 2004.
And in total our year-to-date sales in China are now over 1 billion unit cases.
Just to put this in context our China business first delivered 1 billion unit cases for a full year in 2006 which means we doubled the size of our China business in just 5 years.
Looking ahead and as we have noted in previous earnings calls we're introducing a wider variety of single-serve packages to our Sparkling Beverage portfolio in China.
This is in line with our efforts to focus more on enhancing the consumer experience with our brand and promoting at the same time affordability.
While this greater emphasis on single-serve packages may lead to some quarter-to-quarter volume fluctuation in the near term it's also going to drive increased transactions and build brand equity.
As such we're confident we have the right strategies execution plans as well as capabilities in place in China today to deliver sustainable double-digit growth.
Japan also delivered positive volume growth up 1% for the quarter despite the ongoing aftereffects of the tragic national disaster in March.
This is a better result than we expected when we spoke to you about our Japan business in our last earnings call and is a testament to the strength as well as resilience of our Japanese bottling system.
Having said that we do expect to experience continued challenges in our Japan business during the balance of this year as we cycle last year's record hot summer conditions and keep working through what is still a difficult environment.
Gary is going to provide a more detailed update on our business in Japan later in our call.
But looking beyond 2011 we have strong confidence in our business in Japan.
This year alone our great Japanese bottling system have announced investments totaling over $250 million for production capacity improvements logistics facilities and equipment innovations.
Moving now to Latin America.
We continue to generate volume and profit growth across the region with volume up 6% for the quarter including 4% growth for brand Coca-Cola.
We were able to capture this growth through a relentless focus on occasion-based consumer segmentation combined with best-in-class customer service capabilities.
These strategies which have served us so well in Latin America and many other markets around the world are the same ones actually we're now actively implementing in North America.
Latin America's broad-based growth was once again led by Mexico up double digits for the quarter for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Importantly brand Coca-Cola keeps playing a significant role in driving growth for us in Mexico up 7% for the quarter and 9% year-to-date.
An interesting data point regarding Mexico this quarter is that our bottling partner Coca-Cola FEMSA sold 125 million unit cases in the month of May alone the largest monthly sales volume in their history.
That this historic milestone occurred in the same month that we were celebrating Coca-Cola's 125th anniversary is more than just a coincidence.
It's a great testament to the remarkable system partnership we have in place in Mexico today.
Brazil volume was up 1% for the quarter cycling double-digit growth and reflecting the macroeconomic slowdown driven by the government's recent efforts to curb inflation.
It's important to note that our business in Brazil continues to outperform the marketplace gaining both volume and best value share in both sparkling as well as still beverages.
This provides us confidence that our strategies are working in Brazil and that we're well positioned to expand our share of industry growth in the years ahead.
And our Argentina business delivered high-single digit quarterly and year-to-date growth capturing volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages.
Turning now to Eurasia and Africa where we are executing with excellence across a diverse geography.
Volume grew 7% in the quarter led by strong results in Turkey Russia and India.
Turkey was up 12% this quarter with brand Coca-Cola up 5% for the quarter and 10% year-to-date.
Russia was up 9% this quarter and 16% year-to-date led by brand Coca-Cola up 17% this past quarter posting a sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
India delivered quality results growing 8% in both the quarter and year-to-date making this the 20th consecutive quarter of positive growth for this key emerging market.
Growth in India was balanced across our portfolio with both sparkling and still beverages up 8% each.
Despite geopolitical challenges our Middle East and North Africa business delivered 8% growth as we invest to strengthen our position in this region.
We are also investing to enhance our competitive advantage across fast-growing countries in Sub-Sahara Africa.
Our business in this region was up 6% this quarter and we believe the opportunity for growth there is significant.
GDP forecasts for the next 5 years indicate that of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world 7 will be located in Sub-Sahara Africa making this region in our view the exciting S in BRICS.
As we move to Europe the headline here is one of accelerated growth despite a challenging environment economic environment.
Volume was up 5% marking Europe's fourth consecutive quarter of growth.
Importantly every region of our European business delivered positive growth this past quarter benefiting from warmer weather as well as excellent in-market activation of our 125th anniversary programs.
Our sparkling beverages in Europe were up 5% for the quarter with trademark Coca-Cola up 6%.
And Coca-Cola Zero was up double digits for the third consecutive quarter.
Our still beverages were also up 5% in the quarter driven by double-digit growth in energy beverages and high-single digit growth in teas.
Additionally the further expansion of the Innocent brand fueled our juice and juice drink growth.
While every region of our European business delivered volume growth this quarter Germany led the way with 7%.
Our German business benefited from the further evolution of our occasion-based package and price architecture and the successful execution of robust marketing programs centered on our 125th anniversary campaign.
Our new marketing programs are also helping us recruit both lapsed consumers as well as a new generation of teens in this key European market.
As many of you know our 2020 Vision outlines this strategic set of priorities across multiple dimensions.
From time-to-time we will take an opportunity in our earnings calls to highlight these priorities and share how we are advancing them.
One of our priorities is to win at the point of sale by expanding our investments in immediate consumption.
Year-to-date we're seeing strong momentum against this priority with our immediate consumption beverages up 5% globally.
And while many still beverage categories contributed to this growth our Immediate Consumption Sparkling Beverages are up 4% year-to-date.
Importantly each geographic operating group is growing our Immediate Consumption Beverage business on a year-to-date basis.
As the world becomes more urbanized and as more consumers begin to lead on-the-go mobile lifestyles we see great runway ahead for us in profitable Immediate Consumption growth.
In closing we're working closely together with our global bottling partners.
And the strength of our alignment not only enables us to navigate the current economic and consumer landscape it also puts us in a position of real strength to deliver our 2020 Vision.
Despite the mixed economic recovery all around the globe consumers are increasingly choosing our brands to refresh themselves at a rate of over 1.7 billion servings every day and growing.
Our strong revenue and profit results combined with our worldwide volume and value share gains and positive price mix attest to the strength of our global system.
During this past quarter we officially celebrated Coca-Cola's 125th anniversary.
And while it is wonderfully rewarding to celebrate our past we remain constructively discontent and resolutely focused on our exciting future.
With our 2020 Vision as our road map we will continue to execute our strategies with more focus and passion than ever before.
That is why as we look ahead to 2020 and beyond we remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-term target and to deliver sustainable profitable growth and value for our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our performance this quarter as we delivered results ahead of our long-term growth targets.
And we're achieving these results during a time of mixed economic recovery which is a real testament to our global system's ability to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision.
So let's review our earnings results in more detail.
As Muhtar said we reported comparable earnings per share of $1.17 this quarter up 10% versus the prior year.
This brings our year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 9% at the high end of our long-term growth target.
For the quarter comparable operating income was up 18%.
This includes a 6% benefit from currencies and higher commodity cost.
This brings our year-to-date comparable operating income growth to 14% including a 4% currency benefit and the commodity headwinds.
Our business delivered comparable net revenue growth of 47% this quarter including a 6% increase in concentrate sales a 6% currency benefit positive price mix and the impact of a CCE transaction.
On a year-to-date basis our comparable net revenue growth was 44% including a 5% increase in concentrate sales a 4% currency benefit positive price mix and the impact of the CCE transaction.
Our combined International and Bottling Investments Group price mix was a positive 2% this quarter and our second quarter pricing to retailers in North America was up between 1% and 2%.
To be clear this is our best estimate of the increased pricing our retail customers pay for our brands.
In our meetings with you this past quarter some of you asked for additional detail regarding our 2011 North America retail pricing strategy.
We believe in executing pricing within a disciplined commercial framework that considers rate increases together with occasion-based package mix levers balancing overall category health with volume value and retail pricing growth.
So let me update you on the rest-of-year outlook with respect to our North America retail pricing strategy.
As we said in our last earnings call we expect to capture between 3% and 4% incremental retail pricing in the back half of 2011 leading to a net full year benefit of between 2% and 3%.
We can confirm that we have put into effect incremental pricing programs with many of our customers for the rest of this year that will enable us to deliver against this full year retail pricing target.
As such our 2011 North America retail pricing strategy is laser-focused on driving profitable growth leveraging both rate and mix levers and to not just take price but to earn retail price ahead of inflation and at a premium to our industry.
Our system has done this successfully and consistently in North America not just this quarter and not just this year but on a sustainable year-over-year basis.
And I can assure you that we will continue to execute our retail pricing strategies to deliver maximum long-term value not only to our consumers and our customers but especially our shareowners.
Turning now to our P&amp;L.
Our comparable currency-neutral SG&amp;A expenses were up 47% in the quarter and 48% year-to-date.
As we did last quarter I'll take a moment to review our consolidated SG&amp;A results by operating segment to provide you with a little more context and insight on our results.
First and as expected North America's SG&amp;A reflects an increase due to our acquisition of CCE's North American business including the application of The Coca-Cola Company's sales curve accounting policy to the related CCE North America marketing expenses as I detailed in our last earnings call.
We expect this increase and its corresponding impact on operating expense leverage to remain in place until we fully cycle acquisition of CCE's North American business.
Second our Bottling Investment Group's SG&amp;A was up 5% on a comparable currency-neutral basis excluding the impact of structural items for both the quarter and year-to-date.
This is also to be expected as we continue to make strategic investments in key markets where we see strong long-term growth potential.
Third our international operating segment's SG&amp;A reflects increased direct marketing expenses as we further invest in the health and strength of our brands.
And finally as expected our currency-neutral corporate expenses are up double digits for the quarter and year-to-date due to the inclusion of corporate expenses related to CCE's North American operations and other investments primarily in IT.
While we consider these collective SG&amp;A increases and the higher commodity costs observed this year we expect full year operating expense leverage to be negative for North America and our Bottling Investment Group as anticipated since both are finished goods businesses.
As for our international operations we expect our operating expense leverage to be even for the full year as we strategically sustain our brand-building investments around the world.
And for our year-to-date cash flow from operations this came in at $3.6 billion or $668 million less than in the comparable period last year.
Part of this is attributable to the inclusion of CCE's North America business in our results a business which is historically a net user of cash in the first half of the year.
In addition this cash flow results includes a $769 million contribution made to our pension plans in the first quarter of this year as discussed in our last earnings call.
Net of the pension plan contributions cash flow from operations were actually up 2% year-to-date.
Now let me take a moment to update our 2011 outlook starting with how we are successfully managing the current currency and commodity environment as both of these items have tended to move in opposite directions this year serving to partially offset each other's impact.
Since our last earnings call in April of this year currencies have continued to fluctuate.
In response we have increased our coverage of most key currencies for the remainder of the year and now expect currencies to have a mid-single digit positive impact on operating income for the full year.
As for commodities we still expect these to have an unfavorable impact of approximately $700 million on our full year results in line with the same full year forecast we shared last quarter.
As communicated earlier we are implementing retail price increases with our customers who are also pulling forward cost-saving initiatives to help offset some of these commodity cost.
We continue to actively hedge our commodity and currency exposures.
We also continue to reflect the impact of gains or losses resulting from mark-to-market of derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting in the period that the underlying transaction takes place.
As a result in this quarter we recognized a net $26 million of previously deferred gains primarily related to commodity hedging and have called these out in the schedules and notes to our GAAP/non-GAAP schedule.
Now let me share our latest views on how we see our recent events in Japan influencing our full year results.
As Muhtar mentioned our second quarter results in Japan came in stronger than anticipated after the earthquake and tsunami.
Having said that and consistent with what we shared in our last earnings call we still expect events in Japan to dilute our full year comparable earnings per share by between $0.03 and $0.05 with this impact primarily in the third and fourth quarters.
Finally let me update you on our efforts across several of our ongoing programs starting with our company-wide productivity initiatives launched at the start of 2008.
Our original plan you may remember target to capture $400 million to $500 million in annualized savings by the end of 2011.
Today I can confirm that we are on track to slightly exceed the upper end of this target by year end the final year of this 4-year program.
With regard to synergies related to our CCE transaction we can also reaffirm our commitment to capture between $140 million and $150 million of net cost synergies in 2011.
As for our share repurchase program we limited the number of shares purchased this past quarter as we considered strategic alternatives.
For those of you who model our business this will represent approximately $0.01 difference between our earnings per share results and your own model's estimates.
On a year-to-date basis our share repurchase now stands at $1.1 billion although some of these repurchases have been offset by the exercise of employee stock options.
At this time we are planning to purchase at least 2.5 billion in shares this year and plan to accelerate our share repurchase efforts as needed to achieve this target by year end.
Now let me add a few notes regarding several other line items.
First for the full year we expect net interest income up $30 million to $40 million.
This full year forecast implies a lower level of net interest income for the remaining 2 quarters of this year driven by our expectation for slightly higher interest rates on our debt in the downhill and the effect of other debt activities we're evaluating including the conversion of some of our commercial paper balances to long-term debt.
Lastly our underlying effective tax rate now stands at 24%.
In closing we are greatly encouraged to see our business deliver yet another quarter of solid volume revenue profit and earnings results.
Our seasoned management team and our highly capable global bottling partners are clearly taking the right actions and executing the right strategies to drive our 2020 Vision and advance our global momentum.
Operator we're now ready for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Carlos LaBoy from Crédit Suisse.
Two quick questions one on Japan.
To what do you attribute this Q2 strength? And why is Q3 and Q4 still worrisome if the dislocation's been in evidence since Q2? And to Muhtar I was hoping you could speak to some of the bottling issues.
So many of your key bottlers around the world right now are cash-rich.
They're looking to deploy cash for growth.
Can you speak to how you gauge and maximize this opportunity? What do you tell these bottlers if you really don't seem to be ready to shed the bottler investment group operations if they're still hungry to invest more? Do you worry that you need more growth opportunities for these bottlers? I'll take your second question first.
Let me just say that you heard me say that we're looking at investing $25 billion with our bottling partners in the next 5 years.
As I said on CNBC this morning too the fact that we are generating a good quarter now is not only a result of the good execution and the focus on -- the laser focus on the priorities and executing against those priorities and the strategies.
It's about the investments that we made 6 7 8 quarters ago and that we continue to make both in our brands in innovation capabilities in distribution capabilities in route-to-market in equipment and in enlarging the production base.
When you look at the base that we have in a country like China today and generating the kind of growth we are generating on that base you need significant infrastructure investments in a market just to deliver that kind of volume incrementally on top of the huge base.
And that holds true for Africa that holds true for Latin America all of the higher growth markets.
So we are in Turkey.
We're investing very heavily with our bottling partners in Asia in Latin America in Africa in Eurasia.
And I think the testament the best litmus test again for the health of our business is our bottlers' appetite for additional investments with us as well as of course appetite for additional territory.
And we have both and that's a very good sign in our business.
But primarily our bottling partners are seeing with us tremendous opportunities for continued growth.
That growth cannot come without conviction belief followed by investment that generates -- and then well-executed that generates the growth that we're getting.
So I think today the investments that we're making in this -- that we made in this past quarter while we delivered a good quarter are going to pay off in the coming quarters.
So that's the way you need to think about it.
And then secondly on Japan look I think our Japanese bottling partners have been very quick to come together and investing and ensuring that we have -- we’re supplying the market ahead of the trends ahead of the consumer demand ahead of the customers' expectations.
And that's what we have been doing very successfully in Japan rationalizing SKUs which we have done in order to ensure that we can navigate through the current restrictions in energy and other areas that the country is going through.
And we're playing our part just like also some innovative mechanisms to save more energy on our cooler base cold drink base in Japan that we've done and implemented successfully and have received also great words of support from the government local and federal in Japan.
But look we're cycling a quarter like coming quarter of 11% due to the very very unusually hot climatic conditions that existed there in Q3 next year -- last year.
And so as we look forward into H2 the second half of the year we see a very challenging cycle but also ongoing issues around energy around opening hours for retailers and the like.
But look over time we see all of this being normalized and the good news is that we are ahead of where we thought we would be today when we talked to you 3 or 4 months ago.
And that’s I think the key message about our Japanese business that you need to take away.
And I think as we did with the global macroeconomic crisis we haven't wasted the current crisis in Japan.
We've used it to become stronger to become -- to invest further and to ensure that our brands also are very healthy and successful.
And again the $250 million investment system investment by our bottling partners in Japan is another great testament to that.
So that's what I’d like to leave you with.
Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Muhtar I wanted to focus a little bit more on China.
You mentioned a wider variety of single-serve packages rolling out.
Can you talk specifically about what you're rolling out there that might cause some lumpiness in the quarterly growth? Also if you could put some numbers around the accelerated cooler penetration that you referred to? And on the distribution gains are you still growing in the Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities? Or is the majority of that growth and distribution coming in the lower-tier cities? I think it's fair to say that in China our business the industry continue to evolve at a very high speed.
And again we're introducing a wider variety of packages choice to promote both affordability as well as enhancing the Chinese consumer experience with our brands all really in a way to focus to drive increased transactions.
I think that is a great -- we're looking increasingly at the health of the business through increased transactions and also profitable growth and to continue building both brand equity with our consumers.
So as 1 of the only 2 multicategory beverage players in China the measure of our success will be how we grow our total business between now and 2020 versus our growth in any particular quarter.
And clearly I think with the consumer fundamentals and our strong position in China we're just getting started I believe in this region.
And we're investing for the long term.
And we're ahead of our investment announced of $2 billion over the 3-year period starting with 2009 through ’11.
And the key strategies and initiatives are to expand our portfolio and packaging continue to invest in our distribution system and to invest aggressively in Cold Drink.
You asked about Cold Drink.
This year probably we'll be placing more cold drink equipment than we've ever done in our history for sure.
And then we are getting growth increasingly in Tier 3 but also continue to grow our business vertically as well as slightly horizontal growth in Tier 1 and Tier 2.
And important to note also brand Coca-Cola was up 24% in the past quarter in China and we're excited with the focus paying off as well as with the packaging strategy paying off and our strategy of improving enhancing consumer experience paying off in China.
Our next question comes from John Faucher from JPMC.
Just first a point of clarification from Gary.
Gary if you're telling us about these discussions and you're telling us that you are going to resume share repurchase is it fair to say then that whatever discussions you were having in the second quarter are no longer operative? And then the second piece would -- could you give us an update in terms of it sort of falls in with some of Bill's comments about the single-serve in China as you look at this progression to transactions over the next 12 months or so how should we be modeling this out? Is it going to be something where the price mix will get a lot better and the volume will go down just so we can manage expectations there? Or volume estimates will go down but then the profitability should get a little bit better there? So can you walk us through how we should think about that longer term? Let me take your question on China John and then over to Gary.
It was actually more globally not just the China piece.
Actually probably more the U.S.
in terms of the transactional piece and the price packaging architecture.
Right.
And that is fundamental to the health of our business overall and our ability to deliver sustainable profitable growth and think of it as a soft landing.
This is not about taking going down path and altitude and creating indigestion and headaches for people in the plane.
It's all about ensuring that we can fine-tune our business and consumer-led pricing is the key and choice is the key.
And portion packs are working very well for us across wherever we've introduced them selectively and with surgical focus whether it's in the United States whether it's in Europe Latin America or China.
And I think a great again indicator of health of our business is growth of transactions.
And where volume grows and transactions do not grow at the same rate business needs to be fine-tuned.
We have that philosophy and we implement that philosophy without -- with ensuring that we always have soft landings.
And that it's a mix of happiness when you have -- when you're able to increase transactions as well as increase your volume and also your share.
And that's the position we'd like to see ourselves in every market and that's what I'd like to just leave you with.
And as far as you asked about where do we see this in terms of China I think the issue the picture of success there again is to keep growing the volume but also ensuring that we can generate commensurate growth in transactions without disrupting the business as we implement this strategy and this -- execute with focus.
And over to Gary now for your other question.
John on share repurchase first just for everyone's clarification if you are engaged in anything that would be material inside information the securities laws in this country would preclude you from buying your own shares.
And we were looking at some strategic alternatives during the quarter.
And therefore we thought it prudent to not be in the market during that time.
I can confirm that as of today there is nothing that would preclude us from re-entering the market to repurchase our shares now that the earnings release is out.
Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Gary on commodities could you give us a sense of how hedged you are looking for 2012? And if we were to assume commodities stay where they are through 2012 what kind of annual increase we might see? I assume it's a number less than the $700 million this year but what kind of number might we see next year? Yes Mark well number one we are putting coverage into place in 2012.
It is not all in place because we would normally be entering into those contracts now and through the fall as we're doing our business planning and all.
I guess the impact it's hard to tell you the impact today because there's a lot of volatility and the prices aren't locked in.
What I can tell you though is particularly on some of the commodities let's say corn we have very favorable hedge contracts in place today for 2011.
And that's included in the calculation of the $700 million.
So don't expect to see anything like $700 million next year.
But we will be then cycling in certain of those commodities some favorable hedge positions that we had this year.
But with all that said I'd say there's going to be some commodity pressure next year.
It's not going to be anything like based on what we know today like it is this year.
And I'm talking more U.S.
now because obviously since all of these are dollar-based commodities on the international side a lot of that then gets offset by currency the way currencies have been moving recently.
So I'd say there's going to be some pressure next year but nothing like we've seen this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great and if I could follow up on PET specifically what is your view in terms of where that commodity specifically is heading? On PET I think number one you would think because it's plastic and most of it historically has been sourced out of petroleum that it would be closely linked to the price of oil and it's actually not.
It's really -- there are 2 main ingredients that go into making the plastic itself.
There is a real supply-demand relative to those 2 ingredients and there's a global shortage of one of those.
By the way that -- this is more than you probably want to know.
But a lot of that relates to the price of cotton of all things because -- and price of cotton as you know this past year has been kind of historic highs.
What that means is that in clothing a lot of the clothing will start going toward polyester versus cotton.
That puts the demand side on polyester comes from the same source as PET and that's what's given a lot of the pressure this year to PET resin.
I think there’ll still be some pressure on it but I don't see a lot more upward pressure into next year at this point.
I guess the one thing I would say as well I think that's where it's really important not only from an environmental and a consumer point of view our PlantBottle which in our PlantBottle 30% of the ingredient now coming from renewable sources from plants versus petroleum.
And as we go forward I think and looking at increasing capacity in that we can continue to increase our packaging of the PlantBottle globally.
That can help us not only environmentally but also on the commodity costs side.
So this is one of those where you can do good and do better because of both consumer and costs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And it sounds like you're saying you don't expect PET to go up.
There’s some who think it's actually going to be going down pretty nicely here as the cotton comes in.
Do you have a view on it actually going down later this year? Or is it too soon to say? It's too soon to say I'd say right now.
I'll try to give you some more on that end of the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Christine Farkas Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A regional question if I could.
First thing on Europe I'm seeing or we're seeing very strong growth there.
And Muhtar you talked about all the regions supporting that growth.
Can you comment a little bit about Southern Europe and Italy Spain Greece and how you might be executing there to drive potentially positive volumes in this environment? And also confirm the pace of Eastern Europe if that is in fact turning.
And then on the Philippines very tough cycles there and macro conditions.
I'm wondering if you can also highlight how that business performs.
Yes Christine.
I think Europe we're obviously pleased with the result given the macro conditions in Europe overall.
As I said before Europe is not as uniform as say Japan or the United States in terms of the economic recovery.
There are regions of Europe that really are not doing badly at all.
Germany is one.
The exports are still booming out of Germany.
The German economic growth is leading the rest of the countries in Europe.
Great Britain is sort of pretty much in the middle and then you've got the sort of Eastern Europe coming back although not coming back very strongly.
But there are signs of Eastern Europe Central Europe Hungary Czech Republic Slovakia then also Romania and Bulgaria and former Yugoslavia Croatia Serbia Montenegro and former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia all of those places coming back and we expect that to continue Poland as well.
But the real issue still continues to be in terms of consumer confusion and lots of missed and consumers being extremely cautious in the southern part in Spain Italy also Greece Spain being Spain and Portugal.
But we were pleased to see that Spain grew this past quarter and we see the programs that we're putting into place with our bottlers the investments in our brands paying off.
And we do believe that we're going to strive to continue growing in Europe on the back of these 4 consecutive quarters.
France of course is a great performance.
We've had cycling 8% growing 8%.
Germany again cycling growth and growing and Great Britain more moderate growth and then Spain up in the mid-single digits.
So we're very positive about that.
And then Philippines Christine obviously a very very challenging environment in the Philippines with the aftereffects of food inflation still lingering on.
There was a lot of hot money that came into the Philippines' economy back about 4 quarters ago back during the election and I think we're cycling that period.
But the good news is that we're doing the right things in the Philippines investing in our brands gaining market share in the Philippines in both sparkling and still beverages and getting stronger in the Philippines.
And therefore when the current environment stabilizes and we do believe that we're going to come out of the tunnel stronger and better in the Philippines where our penetration is growing in all different socioeconomic retail outlets as well as driving volume and value share and brand health getting better for both Coca-Cola as well as our allied brands Sprite and Fanta but also for our still beverage brands.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Just a little bit of detail if I might on the situation in Russia because I thought the acquisition of Nidan would have added about 10 points of volume growth.
So is the base business healthy in Russia? Is the consumer in good shape? And then secondly if you could look at juice in the U.S.
it sounds like volumes were very soft because you took pricing up.
And I was just wondering if profits were also soft in other words the margin pressure offset the pricing.
Caroline I think as we look in 2011 some underlying trends have slowed somewhat.
Consumers are still cautious in Russia.
But we had a very strong Q1 with volume up 27% strong share gains.
And then this quarter again we're driving our core brands which are much more profitable and they're a very healthy brand Coke up 17% Fanta up much higher than that almost double higher than 30% growth since the relaunch of Orange with both natural colors as well as ingredients.
And I think the juice category suffered the most in the economic crisis.
So Multon was challenged but we should see improvement in Q4 going forward as both Multon integration continues and the Nidan operation continues to perform above our expectations.
And we've continued to gain market share again in the second quarter both in sparkling as well as still beverages.
And we're again cautiously pleased with the strength of our core brands which are really the foundation for our success to become a bigger player in NARTD in Russia going forward than where we are today.
And I think we need to continue to drive our core brands in the way we're doing.
And that's generating again much better also revenues for us in Russia as a system with our bottling partners.
Now concerning juices in the United States I signaled in my script that we led pricing with Simply 6% to 9%.
Certainly the commodity pricing for fruit was a challenge going forward.
We put that behind us and we still generated growth in our Simply brand.
And we believe that we have the right propositions in juice going forward in the United States and that we will continue to drive profitable growth in our juice business both at the higher end with Simply and Odwalla but also at the more mid-range with all the innovations that are taking place with Minute Maid that we're in the marketplace with.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions from me.
First Gary is there any way we can bridge the North American profit? Obviously the CCE acquisition really makes it tricky.
If I just kind of look at your Q1 performance versus Q2 it seems like profit incremental profit you got in Q2 versus the revenue growth was actually a lot better.
So I'm just wondering if there's any way we can kind of think about how much acquisition added some of the cost savings the commodity versus pricing delta? If there's any way we can kind of walk through those in more detail I’d really appreciate it.
Judy if I could give you that I would then have to admit to Muhtar that I could give it to him as well.
And the issue -- what you're asking for are pro formas basically so that you can actually break it apart and see it.
And the difficulty with pro formas that -- it’s what I explained to North American leadership within the company to Muhtar and now to you is that because of the integration it wasn't just an acquisition we truly integrated the businesses where the Juice business is now inside of CCR the Food Service business is inside of CCR and the Food Service team is now selling both fountain as well as bottle/can as well as juice products.
So I can't pro forma and pull it all apart to actually give you those pieces.
So basically all I can do is try to give you kind of the detail we've given you on the call and then just ask for your indulgence and patience until we cycle through all of it 2 more quarters and then next year it will all look normal.
If I just could then maybe think about from a timing perspective would Q2 have been the most pronounced in terms of commodity versus the pricing gap? Yes in that in Q3 Q3 would really be probably the biggest quarter additional pricing went in in Q3.
And commodities are going to -- the commodity increases are kind of in there already.
So I think your logic is correct.
But just a couple of points to add to that Judy.
Number one I think if you look at the overall business where volume was up excluding the cross-licensed brands 5% comparable increases in concentrate and then currency added to that and then price mix 2 points of price mix across our core business around the world.
That is something that again in this environment we’re cautiously pleased with.
So that's an important point.
The second I think point is that in the U.S.
business we talked to you about 1% to 2% price increase in sort of the first quarter.
I think it's fair to say that we have taken actions in the marketplace.
And we just have to now turn go through it and implement it effectively in the second half.
But we have taken measures for another 3% to 4% price increase generating probably a rate increase of overall for the full year of 2% to 3%.
And I think anything on price mix will come on top of that.
That's where we are in the U.S.
business.
And I think you will see us you'll see that being reflected in the marketplace.
I certainly as I go into the marketplace see that reflected.
I was in the marketplace in the West Coast as well as on the East Coast this past 10 days and I see that coming into play.
And that is something that’s important as we continue to execute and with focus on the second half of the year as we move into our third quarter now.
Okay and if I could just follow up Muhtar just some comment about the premium pricing in North America versus the industry.
Is the plan really using the packaging mix to kind of widen that premium pricing? Or is it really just looking at even the same packaging versus the competitors? Or do you think that your brand equity's strong enough that you can actually get premium pricing? Well premium pricing is all relative.
It's all based on the price packaging channel architecture.
And I think at the end of the day if that translates into a higher number for you or an incremental number on top of the rate increase that I talked about which is on average for the full year 3 or 4 but for the second half 3 to 4 and for the full year 2 to 3; then that is certainly a benefit that we would be looking for and we will be executing against.
But again all the time all the time I repeat consumer-led pricing as opposed to just costs-led and because it's a balance that is really critically important.
And also the value share gain is something that is right on top of the radar screen for us.
Okay.
And Gary just a quick clarification on share buyback comment again.
So when you said as of today there's nothing to preclude you from buying back stock is it the earnings release that triggers you to be in the open market? Or was the comment really that all deals the strategic alternatives that you were looking at you're done with that discussion and that you can move on now? Yes Judy thanks for the question.
There are 2 things that can keep you out of the market.
One is if you're looking at strategic alternatives that are material insider information and that can be either in the U.S.
or internationally and then when we go into a quiet period where the numbers actually come in for the quarter.
And what I'm saying is that we are free to reenter the market on both counts today.
Thank you Gary Jackson.
In closing we had a strong second quarter and delivered solid mid-year performance.
We're executing our 2020 Vision advancing our global momentum by working closely with all of our key stakeholders.
We're deploying our cash to invest in our brands grow our global business and reward our shareholders.
We're on track to deliver against our long-term growth targets and remain intently focused on working across our system to execute our key strategic priorities and generate long-term sustainable growth.
Our proven track record of creating value over time is a testament to this dynamic commercial enterprise as well as business that has only just begun to reach its potential.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.
I would now like introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time-to-time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thanks Jackson and good morning everyone.
On behalf of our 140 000 associates at The Coca-Cola Company I'm pleased to share our earnings report for the third quarter.
Once again we delivered performance results in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets making this the sixth consecutive quarter we have either met or exceeded our long-term growth targets.
We continue to advance our global momentum from a position of real strength realizing growth across every one of our 5 geographic operating groups.
For both the quarter and year-to-date we once more gained global volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Our Global Sparkling Beverage portfolio keeps growing up 4% for the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
This growth was driven by brand Coca-Cola which was up 3% in both the quarter and year-to-date.
And earlier this month Interbrand ranked Coke-Cola as the world's most valuable brand for the 12th consecutive year.
Our Global Still Beverage portfolio is also performing well up 9% for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Importantly we achieved these balanced quality results together with our system bottling partners during a time of ongoing global market volatility which is a testament to our clear and focused vision our strong brands and our solid execution.
Over the past few months we've all seen a downturn in global consumer confidence.
At the same time the last few months have reinforced our belief in the resilience of the global consumer.
In our business we constantly track a number of key metrics.
We look at total retail sales by country.
We look at sales shifts across retail channels.
We look at out of home dining and how many people are on the go.
And what we've seen this past quarter is that across the world nonalcoholic beverages continue to generate increasing demand.
The key success factor in this current challenging environment is for businesses small medium or large to be able to generate sustainable growth.
And I'm happy that we're able to continue to crack this much-needed algorithm of growth.
In Q3 of 2011 we generated almost 250 million unit cases of incremental growth excluding cross-license and acquired brands with nearly 50% of this growth coming from sparkling beverages.
Just to give you a perspective this 250 million unit cases of organic volume growth translates into over $1.7 billion of retail value growth all in 90 days.
For the first 9 months of this year our organic volume growth was over 820 million unit cases equivalent to creating another India and Russia combined.
This achievement of growth is the combined result of precise and focused execution by our inspired system in each quarter combined with the targeted investments made by our system a year or in some cases 2 years prior to the quarter which is being reported.
So while we all see volatility in the external environment and have every reason to believe that this volatility will remain through the near-term the assumptions that guided the development of our 2020 Vision still ring true.
As we complete the seventh quarter in our 2020 Vision we see a world where population keeps growing at a very rapid rate up 200 million since just 2008.
At the same time the world's largest cities are growing and have grown by almost 100 million people in the same period since 2008.
And the global middle class is also growing.
In fact since 2008 almost 200 million people have newly entered the middle class.
We said it when we began our 2020 Vision journey and we say it again right now in 2011 our business was built for times like this.
Our business is strong across channels and across consumer age groups.
We're well positioned to connect with global consumers who have a greater disposition to shop across multiple retail channels in search of real value.
So simply said we provide consumers with an affordable luxury as they enjoy moments of pleasure for pennies at a time billions of times every day.
In February of this year during our presentation at CAGNY the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference we told you that when you have a consistent vision a consistent belief in your brand a consistent ethic of execution the result is consistent quality performance.
And while we may see an occasional bump along the road in a given quarter every year since 2006 we've delivered volume and operating income growth in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets.
We said this again at CAGNY back in February that this trend remains true today.
All of our attributes a well-aligned bottling franchise system healthy brands strong financial performance and a clear 2020 Vision have put us in a position of real strength as we push ahead towards 2020.
And that's why even during times of ongoing global market uncertainty The Coca-Cola Company keeps delivering consistent top line and bottom line results.
So let's review this quarter's results.
We grew worldwide volume 5% this quarter and 6% year-to-date including the benefit of our new cross-licensed brands primarily Dr.
Pepper brands in North America.
Excluding these brands we delivered strong volume growth of 4% for the quarter and 5% year-to-date ahead of our long-term growth target.
As for our profit results we grew comparable earnings per share by 12% this quarter bringing our year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 10% also above our long-term growth targets.
Now let's briefly review performance results across our operating groups beginning first with North America our flagship market.
Many of you on today's call have listened in or joined us last month in Houston for our investor event and market tour.
You heard and saw firsthand how we are building our capabilities to drive our performance in North America.
This quarter's results underscored the good progress we are making on this journey.
North America reported volume up 5% for the quarter and year-to-date making this North America's sixth consecutive quarter of growth.
Our organic volume growth in North America was up 1% in both the quarter and year-to-date.
In this past quarter our North America business gained total market volume and value share in sparkling still and nonalcoholic beverages reaffirming our commitment to drive balanced growth across our portfolio.
Our sparkling beverages in North America were down only slightly in the quarter with brand Coca-Cola volume even for the quarter and we clearly outperformed the rest of the industry gaining both volume and value share in the sparkling beverage category.
And we did so while earning 3% pricing in sparkling beverages this quarter through the effective execution of our occasion-based brand package price and channel strategies.
We are driving profitable growth in North America through our 1.25-liter package which expanded nationally in August and is now available in over 80% of the U.S.
supermarkets.
In those markets where the 1.25-liter package was first launched in May of this year we saw the combination of our 1.25-liter and 2-liter package transactions increase this quarter.
We're also expanding the availability of our immediate consumption offerings with a new 12.5-ounce handheld PET packaged and a more affordable 7.5-ounce mini-can 8-pack.
As for Coke Zero it was up 12% in North America this past quarter making this its 22nd consecutive quarter of double-digits growth.
Our still beverages in North America delivered mid-single digit growth and gained share for the sixth consecutive quarter.
The leading driver of this growth was POWERADE which delivered 9% growth in the quarter and is now up 12% on a year-to-date basis.
POWERADE once again captured both volume and value share in the sports drink category this past quarter.
And since July of 2010 POWERADE has added over 5 million new households demonstrating how this innovative brand keeps resonating with sports drink consumers.
Our key brands delivered mid-single digit growth led by yet another quarter of double-digit growth for Gold Peak Tea.
Finally as many of you heard during our Houston event last month our CCR Coca-Cola Refreshments integration is proceeding as planned.
We remain confident that we have the right brands right strategies and right capabilities in place for North America as we continue to be excited about the long-term outlook for our business in this key market.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group where we are delivering growth across a diverse set of markets.
Overall our Pacific Group volume was up 5% in the quarter and up 6% year-to-date.
This quarter's results were led by double-digit growth in China up 11%.
Sparkling beverages grew mid-single digits in China this past quarter led by brand Coca-Cola up 7% supported by our strategy to introduce a wider variety of single-serve packages to our Sparkling Beverage portfolio.
Last quarter we said this emphasis on single-serve packages would increase transactions and build brand equity.
In fact we observed 12% growth in sparkling beverage transactions in China this past quarter well ahead of sparkling beverage volume growth.
This is in line with our efforts to enhance the consumer experience with our brands while better positioning our China sparkling business for long-term sustainable growth.
At the same time our Still Beverage portfolio in China keeps building momentum up 24% this quarter and 19% year-to-date led by Minute Maid Pulpy.
We're confident that we are executing the right strategies and have the right capabilities in place in China to deliver sustainable double-digit growth over the long term.
Japan's third quarter results were down 3%.
We always expected seeing our volumes soften in Japan this quarter as we cycled 11% growth from last year's record hot summer conditions while also working through the after-effects of the tragic national disaster in March.
And that said Japan's volume results this past quarter were better than we had originally thought underscoring once again the strength as well as the resilience of our Japanese bottling system.
We remain confident in the long-term health of our business in Japan.
Moving now to Latin America.
We continue to expand our volume and value share leadership across the region with volume up 7% for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Latin America's broad-based growth was once again led by Mexico up a strong 8% for the quarter and 10% on a year-to-date basis.
Importantly brand Coca-Cola keeps playing a significant role in driving growth for us in Mexico up 6% for the quarter and 8% year-to-date.
We gained both volume and value share in Mexico despite new pricing above the current rate of inflation.
Our results in Mexico are a great testament to our team's capability to execute occasion-based brand package price and channel strategies that reinforce recruitment as well as affordability with consumers in this key marketplace.
We're also seeing further momentum in our Argentina business which delivered double-digit quarterly and year-to-date growth while capturing volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages for the 11th consecutive quarter there.
Finally Brazil volume was up 1% cycling 13% growth in last year's comparable period.
Having said that our growth in Brazil is ahead of the industry with our business in Brazil gaining share across both sparkling as well as still beverages.
This reinforces our confidence that we have the right strategies in place in Brazil to build on our leadership position and keep expanding our share of industry growth in the years ahead.
Brazil also offers a great example of how we partner with local communities during challenging economic times.
We recently established a social business program in Brazil called Coletivo that aims to create shared value with communities through our core business activities.
And in partnership with local NGOs we teach entrepreneurship and retailing skills to young adults living in low-income areas supporting their entry into the formal job market.
Coletivo prepares students through 2 months of training to deliver customized business opportunities to small outlets inside their communities.
And we're providing a positive economic impact in these areas while also helping us drive solid business results.
And we are in the process of expanding this program across Brazil for we strongly believe we have a role to play in helping consumers through tough economic times.
And through this program we're creating unique value for our brands our system as well as local communities.
Turning now to Eurasia and Africa we are strategically investing for tomorrow across a diverse array of markets while gaining both volume and value share today.
Volume in this region grew 6% in the quarter and 7% year-to-date led by strong results in India Turkey the Middle East and North Africa.
India delivered 19% growth in the quarter making this its 21st consecutive quarter of growth and bringing our year-to-date volume growth to double digits.
This quality growth was well balanced across the entire portfolio.
Sparkling beverages in India were up 19% this quarter led by brand Coca-Cola's strong double-digit growth up 17%.
And still beverages in India were up 17% again in the quarter benefiting from healthy growth across our juice portfolio including brand Maaza up 19%.
Turkey was up double digits in both the quarter and year-to-date gaining volume and value share this quarter in both sparkling and still beverages.
And Turkey is benefiting from our investments in cold drink equipment which is increasing cold beverage availability for us in this key market.
Russia was down mid-single digits this past quarter cycling very strong 30% growth from the same period last year.
At the same time our business in Russia outperformed the rest of the industry gaining both sparkling and still beverage volume and value share in the process.
And as you may have heard we recently announced together with our bottling partners Coca-Cola Hellenic a new Russian investment program of $3 billion over the next 5 years starting in 2012 underscoring our commitment to invest in Russia for the long-term growth.
Finally our Middle East and North Africa business delivered 9% growth in the quarter as we strengthened our position in this key region.
Let me now move to Europe a part of the world that faced an increasingly volatile economic environment as well as unseasonably cold weather this past quarter.
Despite the challenges we gained volume and value share in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages and volume also grew slightly in the quarter rounding to even making this Europe's fifth consecutive quarter of volume growth.
And our year-to-date results in Europe are up 2%.
Our growth in Europe continues to be led by Germany up 4% for the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
Our business in Germany gained volume and value share in sparkling and in the total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages segment.
Our sparkling beverage growth in Germany was led by Coca-Cola up 5% for the quarter as a result of our strategic focus on recruiting both lapsed consumers and a whole new generation of new consumers.
Before concluding our operating results review I'd like to update you on our progress around winning at the point-of-sale by driving immediate consumption growth.
Year-to-date we are sustaining our strong momentum against this priority with immediate consumption beverages up 5% globally.
Last quarter we shared that each of our geographic operating groups was growing our Immediate Consumption Beverage business.
Today we can further confirm that 17 of our top 22 markets are also growing our Immediate Consumption Beverage business on a year-to-date basis.
In fact 9 of these markets are growing immediate consumption ahead of future consumption.
This is quite an accomplishment in an economic environment which favors faster growth in at-home consumption.
As the world's population and demographics keep growing and evolving our system is focused on capturing more than our fair share of this highly profitable immediate consumption growth.
In closing I'd like to say that we're advancing our momentum during a time of mixed economic recovery.
Back in 2008 and 2009 when the world's financial markets were unraveling our system committed to doing 3 things.
First we made a commitment to invest through the crisis.
We did so by establishing a clear and focused 2020 Vision that called for investing in consumer marketing and sales and distribution with the mission of becoming the leader in every market in every category of value to us.
Second we made a commitment to focus on the marketplace and to ensure that we have the right packages and price points for every occasion including affordable entry packs for every consumer.
And thirdly we made a commitment to never let short-term considerations cloud our view of the long-term value of our business.
As a result of these commitments our system has never been stronger.
We continue to solidify our leadership within the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry and during 2009 and '10 the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry grew by $35 billion in total retail value.
We're pleased to say that our Coca-Cola system represented nearly 50% of total industry growth well above our fair share.
So in short our 2020 Vision is working.
Yet every one of us here at The Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola system know that we are really just getting started.
All of us remain constructively discontent and resolutely focused on our exciting future; a future filled with abundant opportunities.
Our job as stewards of this great business and as caretakers of your investment is to ensure that we keep advancing our system's momentum.
With our 2020 Vision as our roadmap we are confident that we can sustainably achieve our long-term growth target and enhance the value of your investment in The Coca-Cola Company.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar.
Good morning everyone.
We're very pleased with our performance this quarter.
We once again delivered results in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets.
And we continue to achieve these high-quality results during a time of mixed economic recovery which is a real testament to our global system's ability to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision.
So let's review our earnings results in more detail.
We reported comparable earnings per share of $1.03 this quarter up 12% versus prior year.
That brings year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 10% ahead of our long-term growth target.
For the quarter comparable operating income was up 21% including a 6% benefit from currencies and higher commodity cost.
This increases our year-to-date comparable operating income growth to 17% including a 5% currency benefit offset by commodity headwinds.
Our business delivered comparable net revenue growth of 45% this quarter including a 5% increase in constant rate sales a 5% currency benefit positive price/mix and the impact of the CCE transaction.
On a year-to-date basis our comparable net revenue growth remains at 44% including a 5% increase in concentrate sales 5% benefit from currency positive price/mix and the impact of the CCE transaction.
Our combined international and Bottling Investments Group's price mix for the quarter was a positive 2%.
As for North America we discussed in our last earnings call our plans to implement incremental pricing programs with many of our customers this quarter.
As a result our pricing to retailers in North America was up 2% in the quarter.
And as Muhtar mentioned this quarter's results was driven by a 3% increase in our pricing to retailers for our North American sparkling beverages.
As such our 2011 North American pricing strategy remains on track to earn between 2% and 3% for the full year leveraging both rate and mix levers to earn price at a premium to our industry.
As we continue to grow in North America through the effective execution of our occasion-based brand package price and channel strategies which we shared with many of you last month during our investor event and market tour in Houston.
If you were not in Houston with us last month or were unable to view the live webcast of our event we encourage you to visit our website where all videos and presentations from Houston detailing our North American roadmap for growth have been posted.
Turning now to our P&amp;L.
Our comparable currency neutral SG&amp;A expenses were up 42% in the quarter and 46% year-to-date.
As explained in previous quarterly calls this increase reflects the impact of acquiring CCE's former North American business which we will cycle in the fourth quarter of this year.
It also reflects our continued investments around the world.
Year-to-date direct marketing expenses are growing slightly ahead of unit cases as we continue to invest in the health and strength of our brands.
As we communicated last quarter we expect our full year operating expense leverage to be negative for North America and our Bottling Investments Group and even for the full year for our international operations as we continue to make strategic investments in key markets around the world.
Our year-to-date cash flow from operations came in at $6.8 billion.
As a reminder this cash flow result includes a $769 million contribution made to our pension plans in the first quarter of this year.
Net of the additional pension plan contributions our cash flow from operations are up 5% year-to-date.
Now let me take a moment to update our 2011 outlook for commodities and currencies.
First we've effectively leveraged retail pricing increases and the acceleration of cost saving initiatives to help offset this year's rising commodity cost.
Having said that our incremental cost estimate for 2011 now stands at approximately $800 million ahead of the $700 million we indicated in our previous calls.
Second since our last earnings call in July of this year currencies have continued to fluctuate with the dollar strengthening against many key currencies.
We have hedged positions in place for most key currencies for the remainder of this year.
We now expect currencies to adversely impact our fourth quarter operating income by low- to mid-single digits while still providing a low- to mid-single digit positive impact for the full year.
As we planned for 2012 we are looking at our combined exposure across both currencies and commodities.
We anticipate that both items will keep moving in opposite directions next year much like they have this year.
And while we expect this movement to help partially offset each other's impact over the course of 2012 the timing of their respective impact on our results will likely vary from quarter-to-quarter.
As for our normal practice we'll provide a broader outlook on their expected impact on our 2012 full year results during our next earnings call in February.
Now let me take a moment to update you on several other programs and line items.
Our company-wide productivity initiatives launched at the start of 2008 remain on track to exceed the upper end of our original target of $400 million to $500 million in annualized savings by the end of this year.
As for synergies related to our CCE transaction we still expect to deliver between $140 million and $150 million of net call synergies in 2011.
With regards to our share repurchase program on a year-to-date basis our net share repurchases stand at $2.2 billion.
As such we're now increasing our share repurchase program with a plan to purchase at least 2.5 billion to 3 billion in net shares this year.
As for net interest income our current forecast for the full year is at the high end of our previously communicated range of $30 million to $40 million.
This implies a slight net interest expense in the fourth quarter of this year.
And our underlying effective tax rate stands at 24%.
Finally we want to remind you that this is the last quarter in which we're cycling the acquisition of CCE's former North American business.
That said there were several one-time items that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010 related to this acquisition that will continue to impact the comparability of both our as-reported and ongoing recurring results next quarter.
We refer you to our previous comments regarding those one-time items specifically to our modeling call held last year on December 14.
The transcript and webcast of that call can be found on our investor website and of course Jackson and our Investor Relations team will be happy to follow up with you separately if you have any further questions.
In closing we're greatly encouraged to see our business deliver yet another quarter of solid volume revenue profit and earnings results.
In the face of today's volatile market conditions our system is healthy and financially strong.
We continue to generate cash invest in our brands execute our flexible and nimble growth strategies and pay a healthy dividend.
In fact The Coca-Cola Company has a long history of distributing dividends having paid them consecutively every year since 1920 and increasing dividends for 49 consecutive years.
With our seasoned management team and our highly capable global bottling partners we're confident that we'll keep taking the right actions and executing the right strategies to build on our strengths advance our global momentum and drive our 2020 Vision.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Muhtar Coke's been delivering top-tier global CBT [ph] company performance this year but can you give us your outlook? If you look at the balance of the year and heading into 2012 considering global macros are slowing in certain regions how is Coke going to sustain this momentum and what kind of investment is required to keep this going against this slowing backdrop? Well firstly I don't think you can say that there's a market deterioration.
I think the whole year has been one of mixed consumer sentiment across the world in general Bill.
But what I'd like to say is that still I believe that the challenging areas are going to be certainly the Western markets primarily I believe the U.S.
environment as well as the European environment -- Western European environment is still going to be challenging as challenging as the past 9 months and into the full year this year probably.
And in that environment we're delivering positive results because our strategies are working because of our past investments and how we execute against our vision strength of our brands.
We're gaining market share and I think when you look at our broad-based investment programs that we have announced multiyear investment programs that we have announced whether they're in the Pacific in places like Malaysia Philippines China Vietnam or whether they're in Eurasia and Africa like India and Pakistan and Africa and the recent Russian investment that I announced when I was there 2 weeks ago in operating a plant in Rostov in the southern part of Russia with our Hellenic bottling partners or whether investments multi-year investments in Mexico Brazil these total over $25 billion and you have these investments that are working for us despite the challenging environment despite the confused consumer and despite the fact that the general environment is certainly much worse than ideal.
However I think that there will still be areas of growth in the world that we are going to materially benefit from in Africa where our system is very strong in Asia and Middle East and Eurasia where our system is very strong and in Latin America.
And we will continue to re-architect our brand-priced pack channel offering both here and the United States as well as across the world just like we did in China just like we did across many other parts of the world to ensure that we can still crack that code for growth on a sustainable basis.
And we believe that we can continue to deliver growth in line with our long-term strategies.
And yes there may be a bump along the way in a quarter sometimes.
But over the longer period and over the medium and longer period we believe despite the economic conditions in the world that are much less than ideal we believe we can continue to crack that algorithm for growth as we move forward.
Our next question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit more about Europe and I guess the slowdown this quarter particularly versus last quarter? And it looks like your comp was also quite a bit easier.
So you mentioned weather but could you give us more context on what was behind the trend there? Well I think we have -- volume in the quarter was slightly positive as I said rounding to even despite very unseasonably cold and rainy summer selling season and also the moderating consumer confidence.
But I think we realized nonalcoholic ready-to-drink volume and value share gains across the whole of Europe France -- including France Germany Great Britain.
We also grew sparkling volume and value share and maintained still volume share for the overall group -- the European group.
And again reported net revenue for the quarter and I think that was a performance that we were pleased with given the conditions in Europe.
And over Central and Southern Europe volume declined.
And I think the Eastern Central European area was still challenging and South East Europe particularly also in Italy and Greece.
But I believe overall the portfolio worked for us like it did in the previous quarters in this year and I believe that's what's going to continue to work for us as we move into the fourth quarter and the final quarter of this year as well as into next year.
Brands are stronger than ever before.
We're gaining market share and we have many innovations that are working for us in both packaging as well as in the still beverage portfolio area.
And our marketing is working for us and next year we've got European championships which is a Coca-Cola property as you know and we're going to leverage that in a very significant manner.
And of course the Olympics and those 2 properties are going to be very strong for us.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gary just on commodities the $100 million step up this year.
Can you talk about what's driving that? And then just any color as it relates to 2012 outlook? Is it going to be worse than what you see this year? How much are you hedged at this point? Yes Judy.
Relative to the $100 million increase it's really kind of across the board.
A lot of PET corn versus where we've been buying corn and although -- this is kind of how do I answer this -- because we had some hedge positions and we're buying some more now at higher prices even though prices have come off a little bit.
So the $100 million by the way was not a big surprise to us.
Over the last couple of months we saw it coming.
And relative to 2012 really we'll go through all of that in February on the year-end call on everything around 2012.
Because I think one of the important things is to put everything in perspective.
Number one was the volatility I'm not sure I can give you a prediction on 2012 and it really mean anything.
But the other and I said a little bit about it in the prepared remarks what we're seeing is not a direct correlation but a lot of correlation between currencies and commodities.
And so every time you see a big spike in the strength of the dollar you see commodities come off strongly and vice versa.
So we're starting to see a natural hedge in offsets in the portfolio of currencies and commodities and we're looking at those together and then looking at how we hedge them for the best results.
So we'll go through that in February.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just following up on that Gary and not getting into the 2012 outlook.
But as we think about the price minus cost delta then now that you've put in additional pricing in the third quarter is the gap between pricing and cost now starting to narrow going forward? Have we sort of peaked in terms of that gap? I think for this year yes.
But we've done a couple of things: We got very good pricing into the market in North America and we knew kind of what the commodities were going to be.
We've done very well with mix as well and so that's helped us.
And we've done very well with accelerating the capture of synergies as well.
And then those synergies are ongoing every year also.
So we've done a good job.
In fact what I said on pricing in North America we pointed out that pricing was plus 2 in North America but plus 3 on Sparkling.
And in fact we're cycling -- this is a good news bad news thing so let me kind of go through it so you understand it.
What we got is very good positive mix particularly around packaging and you saw a lot of packaging initiatives in Houston.
We've also got a negative mix in North America related to the DASANI.
And this is actually good news but at first blush you would think well negative negative price mix on DASANI.
What it is really where the PlantBottle has come through with our customers really identifying it with it and our consumers and DASANI being relisted in quite a few national retailers.
So it's really been a huge positive for us even though it put a little pressure on the price mix in the quarter.
So it's a real positive.
And Judy just one other point on a more global basis.
You heard in my comments about how immediate consumption is such a big focus of ours around the world and how we're gaining traction.
I think that has also helped us realize mix to our benefit and our bottlers particularly around the world as also where commodities have also been a challenge in many parts of the world.
So that's worked in our favor also in the first 9 months of this year as we have had that very major focus on immediate consumption drive.
Our next question comes from Carlos LaBoy from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar when you look at the performance of Latin America beyond the execution model which you're replicating in many of your markets what do you think moves these family -- on-bottlers to make these extraordinary efforts.
In other words what insights does Latin America hold for you on what the ultimate architecture of North America might look like in terms of roles responsibilities partnership principles and the intangible things that stand behind these execution models? Well I think it's a -- I mean certainly the philosophy of execution is something that is coming into our North American business rapidly.
I hope you were able to see first hand some of that when you were in Houston.
But just go anywhere and you'll see differences.
You'll see -- your eyes will pick up differences across the country.
The philosophy the belief in the business the belief in the ability that where we can grow this business that these per capitas are nowhere near to the ceiling and the belief that the inspiration is resonating the marketing combined with execution will resonate and translate into a growth algorithm.
It starts with that and I think there's great learnings not just from Latin America execution and family-owned bottling business or even larger bottling businesses in Latin America but across many parts of the world whether it's in European Coca-Cola Hellenic territories whether it's in Turkey and CCI territories whether it's in some other territories in South Europe Iberian Peninsula.
There's that philosophy of execution that was lost to many to a great deal that extends to the United Stated and that's coming back.
It's coming back rapidly and I think that's what gives us excitement about the future of our business here.
Now in terms of your question related to Latin America per se and yes we're very happy with our performance in Latin America both this past quarter as well as on a year-to-date basis.
And again it's a great portfolio of countries.
You've seen Brazil slow down a little bit naturally because we were cycling a very high number from prior year at 13%.
But I think also at the same time other countries are coming back to generate a very healthy result overall in our Latin American business.
And I've also said this before and I want to reiterate we're just starting with our Still Beverage business in Latin America.
It's just the beginning of the journey and it's still at very low per caps and very low beginnings and there's a great future.
As we continue to maintain the momentum in our Sparkling Beverage business in Latin America the Still Beverage business that growth is just going to come on top of that and that's what I think what we're building rapidly in Latin America both in our juice and juice drinks business but also in our teas and Leaos and other such still beverages.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to just ask about your opinion of the growth in the North American market over the next several years.
Do we have to throw up our hands and say that as a market the industry can't grow even though you can maybe get some brands growing within it? Or do you see hope for sparkling growth? Well firstly I think if you look at what we've been able to achieve here in our U.S.
market it's been growing since the second quarter of 2010.
And it's really important to underscore that point that we are growing.
So we have no reason to put our hands up as you suggest.
We totally respectfully disagree that that's very far from where our mind is about the United States.
And there's a number of reasons why we believe that.
First the demographics in North America are in our favor.
They're the best demographics of any Western nation in the world.
We're going to be adding between now and then of our vision term 30 million people to the population of the United States.
It'll have the third highest teen population.
Everyone that has bet against the United States in the past have lost and I respectfully believe very much so that we'll get it right also from a macro perspective here.
For the diversity of our population the entrepreneurial spirit the amount of university graduates that we attract from all around the world the best.
And so we have every reason to believe that this business -- that if we can't grow it's our fault.
Simple as that.
And we won't accept that.
And therefore we are growing and we will continue to grow.
We never said they we're going to grow at rates of China or India.
We said that we'll generate moderate growth rates in America and that we will continue to improve our business and generate higher revenue than our volume and generate higher income than our revenue.
So volume moderate volume better than the volume revenues and better than revenue income.
That's our model and we believe that that model will work.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the enthusiasm and the belief behind that.
I'm just wondering are there any specific brands in sparkling that you think have much more potential in North America? Sparkling firstly brand Coke was even in North America in the last quarter.
That I think is a huge achievement from where we were.
Coke Zero continues to have double-digit growth.
That's a huge benefit that we have and a great point of leverage.
And our brands are stronger than ever before metrics for our brands.
And we believe that we can continue to accelerate both sparkling as well as still beverages.
And POWERADE as you know as you've heard is continuing to do very well.
Our other still beverages are doing very well.
So we believe that -- and we have the best brand metrics coming out of our still and sparkling beverage portfolio as a result of not just the investments we've made but also as a result of the execution.
Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar as you head into this current quarter you're seeing your FX benefit turn to being a negative and I suspect that's before you get any commodity benefit.
So in light of that dynamic how are you thinking about how you maintain support for your brands now that you're losing this FX benefit? And how does that affect your confidence in achieving your 6% to 8% operating income targets over the next year or so now that -- and of course now we'll be looking at KO without the noise if you will of the CC North America acquisition? Well I'll let Gary also comment on the FX but let me just say that we weren't dependent on it.
No you can't depend on FX.
Depending on FX to support your brands is like taking off in a plane with the fuel gauge on.
You can't do that.
So you've got to make absolutely sure that you have a sustainable base that you can depend on to fuel your brands.
And our transformation program which is ahead of schedule and the last year that we've generated north of $500 million of savings.
We've obviously channeled some of that into our brands to continue to fuel our brands.
We have also -- are very ahead of our target of schedule in our North American integration and so the volatility of currency is something that changes faster than -- the rate of change of currencies is something that we haven't seen for a long time and you cannot depend on that for ensuring that you have enough fuel for your brands.
So we have other means to ensure that we have -- that we can continue to support our brands.
And by the way the cash position of our bottlers is better than ever before.
And we continue to upgrade and increase and enhance our long-term investment programs that we've announced across the world.
I was in China recently again where we announced a new investment program and actually when you -- when we concluded the 3-year investment program we ended up spending more than we originally estimated in China for the 3 years gone back the last 3 years.
And that's because of our bottlers' belief in the future of the business.
And that's happening across the world so we have -- our bottlers financial and balance sheets are better than we've seen them for a long long time.
That fuels more investment in both plant equipment machinery cold drink and infrastructure and we are certainly reallocating money from our P&amp;L into brand building in a very successful and meaningful and sustainable way.
Mark this is Gary.
Just a couple of comments on currency.
Number one what I was telling you was really just kind of based on where rates are today and our current hedge positions et cetera for the fourth quarter.
I have probably 3 to 5 different scenarios of what could happen next year both on currencies and on commodities.
Number one I would tell you that fundamentally we believe that -- on the fundamentals the dollar is actually probably over [Audio Gap] value and would give us a benefit.
I'm not projecting that right now because of the crisis going on in Europe and if they could just get their communications consistent it'd probably help some of the volatility over there.
But the dollar's overvalued but it's overvalued because of fear right now in the financial markets.
So with that said long-term I think we probably benefit.
Short-term it probably hurts us a little bit.
But also said I think we're seeing offsets across commodities as well.
So we'll just have to kind of wait and see how it goes.
But the important thing to remember I think is that we run our business across the world in local currency.
Their local currency their local businesses and they generate local currencies and run them in local currency.
And we do that because we are running this business for the long-term and not what happens in an FX market today or tomorrow.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Muhtar if you think about the targets if we go back to the period before the purchase of CCE North America we used to hear you comment we think the targets are reasonable for the coming year.
What is your view of achieving the targets in '12 or over the near- to intermediate-term now that we no longer have the noise of CCE North America in the reported results? Well we've consistently met or exceeded our long-term growth targets Mark.
And I think that basically and you need to understand that we also strive for our 2020 Vision targets which is doubling our system revenue by 2020 from a base of 2010.
And coupled with those as I said before -- as I mentioned before we will continue to strive to ensure that we meet or exceed our long-term growth targets in every quarter as we operate through this difficult environment.
And as I said also that there may be bumps one or 2 bumps along the way and that's what we said also in the past.
But over time and over the medium- and long-term we have every reason to believe that we can continue to achieve our long-term growth targets and also meet our 2020 Vision targets.
Our next question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar you detailed the strong immediate consumption trends in the quarter.
Can you review the key drivers behind that growth and also going forward the level of risk that you think potentially slowing macros here can have on immediate consumption trends? Well they've had an impact.
Mobility has gone down more people are moving towards in-house entertainment.
But we saw those trends and we invested against those to ensure that we would actually continue to drive our immediate consumption business whether it is on the streets of Italy or whether it's on the streets of Shanghai or in Africa.
And so what does that entail? That entails more cold drink equipment targeted cold drink equipment.
That included a new architecture of packaging and pricing that would make it more attractive for on-the-go consumers to find packages that were affordable for them and we did that in China and successfully in parts of Asia successfully in many parts of Eurasia as we did here in America.
And I think it's worked and you heard me just announce also that we'll be launching even more new on-the-go packages here in the United States.
So this strategy of investment ahead of the curve in infrastructure particularly in cold drink infrastructure coupled with the intelligent progressive packaging moves have helped us in this area and will continue to help us.
And then lay on top of that also some innovative moves like the expansion of Freestyle across -- and Freestyle is now in 2 markets around the world as we speak in the United States and Japan and continuing to create a lot of excitement.
And then also overlay on top of that other innovations like the PlantBottle and I LOHAS in Japan driving results for us in the immediate consumption of convenience store channel.
And so you get the picture I hope.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question on Europe.
It looks as though sort of parsing through the different commentary it looks as though sparkling volume growth was great but non-carbs weaker.
Do you think that's -- is there a greater weather impact on the non-carbs side? Do you think that's an economic issue? Or in terms of maybe juices whatever being more expensive? Was it just sort of I have a big commodity bottled water business.
Can you talk a little bit about the differentiation and growth between the non-carbs and the sparkling side in Europe? Well there wasn't a big differentiation to the extent that you mentioned.
But there was a small differentiation and I would attribute that to the very cold weather particularly in -- ready-to-drink teas and sports drinks do get impacted more so by the climatic conditions and they were very severe compared to the year before.
But I would look at the year-to-date and that in the year-to-date there's absolutely no anomaly in that.
So I wouldn't put too much into that.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick question to Gary.
Gary you talked about sort of terming out some of your debt going a little bit longer duration.
Can you talk -- as you talked about the interest expense and interest income numbers can you give us an update there and should we expect you to continue to term out some of this CP et cetera? John we're still actually looking at that and have not made a decision whether we'll term out anymore of the debt or not at this point in time.
What we're looking at on the interest income interest expense by the way is really just a translation impact of the exchange rates of how much the interest income translates into in dollars and that's the only impact we have actually hedged quite a bit of economically in terms of actual cash itself to protect the dollar amount of the cash if you will.
But it does translate into fewer dollars of interest income.
But on the terming of our commercial paper we're still looking at it and we'll let you know as we go forward on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I apologize.
One other quick question which is you talked about having translation -- I think operating income hedges in place for most important currencies.
And traditionally you've had a fairly narrow basket on the operating income line.
Has that changed or are you now potentially hedging in some other currencies? No we're actually hedging in some other currencies.
It hasn't changed and let me explain that.
When we're looking at like a year or 2 years out or that kind of thing it's basically hedged in the hard currencies euros sterling et cetera because to try to hedge a lot of emerging market currencies is just prohibitively expensive.
However when you get into 3 4 5 months kind of out you can actually then start putting hedges in place to lock in.
So we do on a shorter-term basis actually hedge a lot of the other currencies as well.
And our final question today comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> My question is a follow-up to currency combined with commodity trends.
I mean we can't know the magnitude or the timing of your hedging programs.
Could you just give us some order of magnitude of the offset? In other words can we assume that net of all your hedging that commodity trends offset 30% of the currency hits next year or 50% or 80%? And is there a timing lag? Yes.
What I can do is I'll try to give you an update on that in February when we do the year-end call.
And just to put some context around that let me give you an example.
If you look at the GAAP non-GAAP schedules that we have that were released this morning with our earnings release you'll see that where we take -- we have some hedges commodity hedges that are economic hedges but are not accounting hedges.
And we put them in there and actually take the impact gain or loss out.
If you look this quarter there's actually $113 million of hedge losses which means we've committed to buy some commodities if you will which -- at a price which on the last day of the quarter was more expensive than spot.
As of today versus 2 weeks ago half of that $113 million is gone and were actually just swung back the other way and that's what the volatility is doing today.
So I think that's why we're saying we'll wait February.
We'll give you a good hopefully better outlook.
Because as I said in one of the previous comments we've got probably 5 different scenarios of what could happen on currencies and commodities going and all of them pretty much going in different directions.
So we'll give you a much better look then because today I just can't do it.
Thanks Gary and Jackson.
In closing let me just reiterate that along with our bottling partners around the world we're successfully advancing our global momentum during a time of ongoing global market volatility.
Our system is financially strong.
We continue to generate cash.
We continue to invest for growth and pay a healthy dividend as well as retain financial flexibility.
And while we are delivering quality results today we also remain clearly focused on driving long-term sustainable growth in order to realize our 2020 Vision.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we'll turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin though I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objective and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconciles certain non-GAAP measures financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time-to-time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I will turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Today I'm pleased to share The Coca-Cola Company continues to operate from a position of real strength.
Our brands continue to get stronger.
Our strategies continue to be sound and our execution continues to be focused and effective.
All of this continues to drive sustainable growth and continues to bring us closer to achieving our 2020 Vision.
One day one week one month and one quarter at a time.
Thanks to the extraordinary determination and resolve of our 146 000 company associates around the world we delivered volume and revenue growth this quarter in every one of our 5 geographic operating groups.
And we achieved financial results for both the quarter and the full year in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets making this the seventh consecutive quarter we have either met or exceeded our long-term growth targets.
Our global sparkling beverage portfolio kept growing up 2% for the quarter and a solid 4% for the full year.
Our global still beverage portfolio is also performing well up 6% for the quarter and a strong 8% for the full year.
And we gained global volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages while also gaining global share in both sparkling and still beverage categories.
We achieved these results for both the quarter and the full year against the backdrop of a volatile global economic landscape.
Even as we believe that the unease in the global markets will continue in the near term the breadth of our global footprint and the strength of our brands create a business that was built for times like these resilient and resolute to grow.
Our solid performance in 2011 reflects the consistent investments we have made over time to strengthen the health of our brands starting with brand Coca-Cola the very oxygen of our business up 3% in both the quarter and the full year.
In fact brand Coca-Cola grew by at least 24 million servings in 24 different countries this past quarter.
Our brand health and brand value have been created over the long-term through strong and consistent investments in our business rather than through short-term incremental actions.
And this is why we remain so committed to our long-term brand investment strategies.
Our 2011 performance results underscore how our company together with our global bottling partners is well aligned and positioned to lead in this difficult environment.
As we enter into the third year of our 2020 Vision our roadmap for winning together remains clear to us and our committed bottling partners.
The assumptions that shaped our vision have not changed.
Our expectations for strong performance have not wavered.
The key to our calculus for growth and achieving our 2020 Vision will be to ensure that we keep creating balanced growth across both emerging and developed markets as well as sparkling and still categories.
We successfully achieved this balance in 2011.
For the full year we delivered almost 1 billion unit cases of incremental organic volume growth or the equivalent of adding another Japan to our business.
And importantly we delivered positive full year growth in key developed markets like North America Japan and Germany while also generating double-digit full year growth in key emerging markets like India and China.
And we will continue to make significant investments in our future all across the world.
In fact in order to achieve our 2020 Vision we anticipate our global system will add about 100 000 jobs in this decade as we invest to support the tremendous opportunity we see in nonalcoholic beverages one of the fastest-growing industries in consumer packaged goods.
So let's review our fourth quarter and full year results.
Worldwide we grew volume 3% this quarter in line with our long-term growth target.
For the full year we grew worldwide volume by 5% including the benefit of cross-licensed brands primarily Dr.
Pepper in North America.
Excluding these brands we delivered strong full year volume growth of 4% also in line with our long-term target.
As for our profit results we grew comparable earnings per share by 10% for both the quarter and the full year ahead of our long-term target.
As we close the second year of our 2020 Vision this also marks the second consecutive year we've delivered double-digit comparable earnings per share growth.
Now let's briefly review performance results across our operating groups beginning first with North America where our team remains focused on driving profitable and sustainable growth.
North America volume was up 1% in the quarter making this North America's seventh consecutive quarter of growth.
And for the full year North America's organic volume growth was also up 1%.
The North America business gained total market volume and value share in sparkling still and nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in both the quarter and the full year.
And we delivered these strong results while in the process of successfully integrating the largest acquisition in our company's history.
Our sparkling beverage results in North America were even for the quarter with brand Coca-Cola volume up 1%.
We achieved these results while also earning an increase in retail pricing of 4% in sparkling beverages through the effective execution of our occasion-based brand package price and channel strategies.
As for Coke Zero it was up high-single digits in North America this past quarter and up double digits for the full year making this the fifth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
We also drove positive growth for Fanta which was up 3% in 2011 its second consecutive year of positive growth.
Our still beverages in North America delivered 3% growth in the quarter and 4% growth for the full year while gaining share for the seventh consecutive quarter.
POWERADE continues to be a leading driver of this solid growth up 11% in the quarter and 12% for the full year.
And POWERADE once again captured both volume and value share in the sports drinks category both for the quarter and for the full year.
Our key brands delivered double-digit growth in the quarter led by Gold Peak which grew double digits for the 19th consecutive quarter.
As we've always said there's no other western developed market in the world that boasts as dynamic the demographics as those present in North America between now and 2020.
Young vibrant diverse educated and entrepreneurial.
We like these attributes and have every reason to remain excited about the long-term outlook of our flagship market.
Turning now to our Pacific Group where in 2011 our business again delivered consistent growth across a diverse set of markets.
Overall our Pacific Group volume was up 5% in both the quarter and the full year and these results were led by China up double digits in the quarter and for the full year making this 9 out of the last 10 years that our business in China has delivered double-digit growth.
Our efforts to enhance the consumer experience with our sparkling beverage brands keep paying dividends with sparkling beverages up double digits in China for both the quarter and the full year.
Importantly we're seeing strong growth across our entire sparkling portfolio with Coca-Cola Sprite and Fanta all delivering double-digit growth in both the fourth quarter as well as in the full year 2011.
At the same time our still beverage portfolio brands are sustaining their solid momentum also delivering double-digit growth for the full year.
These results confirm that we are executing the right strategies and have the right capabilities in place in China to deliver sustainable double-digit growth over the long-term.
Japan's fourth quarter results were up 5% resulting in slightly positive full year growth rounding to even.
This is a better-than-anticipated full year result in light of the tragic national disasters that occurred last March.
This also underscores the strength and resilience of our people and brands across the entire Japanese bottling system.
Notably we realized greater momentum across several key channels in Japan this quarter including convenience stores and vending as we further increase our focus on single-serve beverages.
Moving now to Latin America where in 2011 we once again expanded our volume and value share leadership position.
Volume in this total region was up 4% in the quarter and 6% for the full year.
This strong performance was once again led by Mexico up 4% for the quarter and 9% for the full year.
Our business in Mexico gained volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages for both the quarter and the full year.
In fact our still beverage portfolio in Mexico reached nearly 1 billion unit cases in 2011 a short 4 years after the successful integration of Jugos Del Valle into our winning portfolio.
The rapid evolution of our brands in Mexico is a great testament to our team's ability to execute clear occasion-based channel strategies across all beverage categories in this key market.
We're also advancing our momentum in Argentina which delivered double-digit full year growth while capturing volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages for the 12th consecutive quarter.
And finally Brazil volume was up 1% for the full year.
Despite a general slowdown in the economy and unfavorable weather our business in Brazil keeps outperforming the industry gaining share across both sparkling and still beverages in both for the quarter as well as the full year.
Let's now turn to the Eurasia and Africa Group.
In 2011 we made sound progress against our goal to strategically invest for tomorrow while gaining share today.
Volume in this region grew 4% in the quarter and a solid 6% for the full year.
Importantly our growth in Eurasia and Africa was driven by the continued strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola up 5% in the quarter and 7% for the full year 2011.
Our overall performance in this key region was once again led by India which delivered 20% growth for the quarter resulting in double-digit growth for the full year.
2011 was the fifth consecutive year that India achieved double-digit growth.
And that’s been the case throughout 2011 growth in India was well balanced across our entire portfolio.
Sparkling beverages in India were up over 20% this quarter while brand Coca-Cola was up a strong 15%.
And still beverages in India were up 16% this quarter benefiting from a healthy growth across our juice portfolio including Maaza up 19%.
Russia was down low-single digits in the quarter fourth quarter cycling last year's very strong 31% growth.
On a full year basis our business in Russia was up mid-single digits.
Our business in Russia is being led by the strong growth of brand Coca-Cola which delivered double-digit growth in 2011.
Brand Coca-Cola is now more than twice the size of our primary competitor's cola brand in Russia.
Notably our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry gaining both sparkling and still beverage volume and value share.
Turning to Turkey.
We gained volume and value share this quarter in both sparkling and still beverages.
For 2011 Turkey again delivered double-digit growth as it did the previous year in 2010.
And despite geopolitical challenges in the region our Middle East and North Africa business unit delivered a solid 7% in the quarter and 8% for the full year.
A clear example of our commitment to invest in tomorrow in this exciting Middle East region is our recently announced agreement to acquire approximately half of the equity of Aujan Industries.
Aujan holds the #1 position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East.
Their brands hold a top 3 position in every market where they compete.
This strong partnership with Aujan coupled with the strength of our bottling partners will make the Coca-Cola system a leader in the fast-growing still beverage category in the Middle East.
Let's now turn to Europe a region of the world that is still facing a very uncertain economic environment.
Yet for The Coca-Cola Company it is also a region that serves as a testament to how well our system is positioned to face these serious economic challenges.
Our business in Europe grew 1% in the quarter making this Europe's sixth consecutive quarter of volume growth resulting in a full year growth rate of 2%.
We achieved these results by strategically tailoring our price and package offerings to meet the needs of each market and their varying economic conditions.
Our growth in Europe was widespread with positive fourth quarter and full year growth across several key markets in Northwest Europe and Spain.
And we saw the continued growth of Innocent supported by the successful launch of not-from-concentrate juice in Great Britain.
Our growth in Europe was once again led by Germany up a very strong 9% for the quarter and up 6% for the full year representing our best full year growth result in Germany since 1992.
While some of this growth should be attributed to favorable weather and consumer sentiment there's no doubt that our bottling restructuring efforts as well as effective marketing campaigns have played a key role in this improvement.
We're confident that our business in Germany is in a sound position to continue delivering long-term sustainable growth.
Looking ahead to 2012 and 2013.
Despite the lingering debt crisis coupled with economic and political uncertainty we are confident that we have the right brands the right structure the right strategies and right capabilities in place to continue delivering profitable growth in Europe over the longer term.
Now let's turn to an overview of how we are building our brands.
As we've said before we always place our brands first in all that we do across more than 200 countries all around the world.
This is how we've built the world's most valuable beverage brand portfolio with 15 $1 billion brands more than any other beverage company.
Our top 4 brands: Coca-Cola Sprite Fanta and Diet Coke all once again exceeded $10 billion in global retail sales in 2011.
A key component of how we strengthen our global brand portfolio is through innovative consumer engagement.
We continuously strive to engage with our consumers in an integrated manner across all social media platforms.
A recent example of our efforts in this front was this past weekend's very successful Super Bowl campaign where we engaged fans like never before.
Through a unique online viewing experience fans got to chat with our animated polar bears and see their game reactions.
And they watched the bears move from the digital realm of the TV as they starred in 3 new well-received and highly rated TV commercials.
And an estimated 300 000-plus fans joined the polar bears live far exceeding expectations.
And by the second quarter the Coca-Cola Facebook feed was receiving 3 400 hits per second.
This is just one of the -- a string of marketing achievements for our company.
Recently we were humbled by the Advertising Age naming The Coca-Cola Company as its 2011 Marketer of the Year.
And it's gratifying to see our global marketing efforts recognized by this industry-leading publication as we strive to develop and deploy the world's most innovative and effective marketing.
Let me update you now on our progress around winning at the point of sale.
Our system continues to develop critical capabilities to better support over 20 million customers we partner with each and every week to deliver these servings.
We measure our progress against this effort by tracking our results across several high-impact pragmatic and locally actionable metrics.
One metric we have referenced several times this past year is our immediate consumption volume growth.
And this metric is meaningful as it drives trial drives recruitment and system profitability.
In 2011 our immediate consumption beverages were up 4% globally driven by focused in-store activation efforts and cold drink equipment expansion.
In fact as a global system we've placed over 1.2 million new pieces of cold drink equipment in 2011 and have placed over 2.2 million since 2010 the first year of our 2020 Vision.
Another key metric we monitor closely is the expansion of our right execution daily or RED program in short.
Some of you may remember RED as our world-class commercial process designed to improve execution at the outlet level.
Today operations representing over 1/3 of our global volume utilize RED.
And for comparison when we initiated our 2020 Vision just 3 years ago less than 15% of our global volume was distributed through operations using RED.
So as we move into 2012 our RED program will remain an area of increasing emphasis focus and growth for our system.
Before concluding our operating results review I'd like to update you on our productivity goals.
A leading priority of our company is to design and implement an effective and efficient business system with productivity as one of our core pillars of our 2020 Vision.
As such in 2012 we're implementing a new 4-year productivity and reinvestment program that we will -- we expect will achieve between $550 million and $650 million of total incremental annualized savings by the end of 2015.
I'm pleased and excited to announce this program from a position of continued growth and momentum towards realizing our 2020 Vision as we consistently deliver results in line with or ahead of our long-term targets.
This program will further enable our efforts to strengthen our brands and reinvest our resources to drive long-term profitable growth.
We remain relentless in our efforts to become more efficient leaner and adaptive to changing market conditions while at the same time building a continuous improvement in cost management culture in keeping with our 2020 Vision.
Gary is going to share further details about this new 4-year program in a few moments.
Finally I also want to highlight some of the important progress we're making in the area of sustainable packaging water stewardship and climate protection.
By the end of 2011 we've shipped nearly 10 billion PlantBottle packages helping reduce our annual emissions of carbon dioxide while also decreasing our dependency on oil-based resin.
As noted in our latest Sustainability Report we improved our water use efficiency for the eighth consecutive year reducing the average amount of water required to produce each beverage serving.
We estimate that we replenished 35% of the water used in our finished products due to some 380-plus community water partnerships in 94 countries as we work toward our goal of water neutrality by 2020.
And we increased our production volume while reducing our system-wide global carbon emissions by 2% putting us a step closer to our goal of growing our business but not our carbon.
These are just a few examples of how we're building our business responsibly by making a positive difference in the communities that we serve -- we proudly serve.
These efforts are helping us engage with consumers reduce our cost of doing business and improve our bottom line.
We are keenly aware of how uncertain the global economic landscape remains today.
That said as we look ahead we see a world looking for hope for optimism and for renewal.
The Coca-Cola Company and the Coca-Cola system is uniquely positioned to refresh this thirsty world.
We're refreshing the thirst of our investors consistently by delivering high-quality returns to shareowners while also generating steady cash flows and paying a steady healthy dividend.
We're refreshing the needs of thirsty global consumers through our diverse brand portfolio and the world's most innovative and effective marketing.
We're refreshing the needs of a thirsty system by increasing our levels of global investment along with our dedicated bottling partners.
We're refreshing our operations through a culture of continuous improvement.
And central to this is extending and driving productivity efforts to design and implement a more effective and efficient business system.
And we are refreshing the needs of our communities through global and industry sustainability leadership.
The nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry grew by $35 billion in total retail value in 2011.
We're pleased to say that our Coca-Cola system represented more than 40% of this total industry growth underscoring that our 2020 Vision is working well.
And while 2011 was another strong year of performance for The Coca-Cola Company we believe we are just getting started and that our best and brightest days lie ahead.
We have a lot to be thankful for and confident about healthy and beloved brand a clear roadmap for continued growth a well-aligned global bottling system dedicated and passionate associates and strong financial results and discipline.
Taking into account all of these assets to our business we remain resolute in our desire and confident in our ability to achieve our long-term growth targets and further enhance the value of your investment in The Coca-Cola Company.
With that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We once again delivered quality results this quarter and for the full year in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets.
In fact our full year volume and profit results were in line with or exceeded our long-term growth targets for the sixth consecutive year.
We continue to achieve these consistent high-quality results during a period of still mixed economic recovery which is a real testament to our global system's ability to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision.
So let's review our earnings results in more detail.
We reported comparable earnings per share of $0.79 this quarter up 10% versus the prior year.
Our full year comparable earnings per share growth also was up 10% ahead of our long-term growth targets.
For the quarter comparable currency neutral operating income was up 14% bringing our full year comparable currency neutral operating income growth to 12% also ahead of our long-term growth target.
For clarity the impact of currency on our comparable operating income results was a 3% headwind for the quarter and a 3% benefit for the full year right in line with the quarterly and full year outlook range we've provided during our last earnings call in October.
Our business delivered comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 6% this quarter in line with our long-term growth target including a 5% increase in concentrate sales and positive price mix.
On a full year basis our comparable currency neutral net revenue growth came in at 29% including a 5% increase in concentrate sales positive price mix and the impact of the CCE transaction.
And again for clarity the impact of currency on our comparable net revenue results was a 1% headwind for the quarter and a 3% benefit for the full year.
Our combined international and bottling investments group price product mix was a positive 3% for the quarter.
And our North American price product mix came in at a positive 2% in the quarter driven by a 4% increase in our pricing to retailers for our sparkling beverages in North America.
Our consolidated geographic mix was down 1% which resulted in a consolidated price mix at the midpoint of our long-term target range of 1% to 2%.
For 2012 we anticipate our consolidated price mix results will remain in this target range of 1% to 2%.
Turning to the rest of our P&amp;L.
We expected our consolidated comparable gross revenues to decrease slightly in 2011 which they did due to increased commodity cost as well as the impact of our acquisition of CCE's North American bottling operations.
Importantly we expect our 2012 consolidated comparable gross margins will remain in line with 2011 even after taking into consideration further commodity cost inflation which I'll discuss in a few minutes.
Our comparable currency neutral SG&amp;A expenses were even in the quarter and up 30% for the full year.
As explained in prior quarterly calls this full year increase reflects the impact of acquiring CCE's former North American business which we did not fully cycle until the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase in SG&amp;A also reflects our continued investments around the world.
On this front for the full year 2011 we grew our direct marketing expenses ahead of unit case growth sustaining our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands.
As for operating expense leverage it came in positive this quarter for both North America and the Bottling Investments Group.
As expected operating expense leverage for our international operations came in slightly negative in the fourth quarter due to the timing of expenses.
And operating expense leverage for international came in at even for the full year as planned.
For 2012 we expect to capture low-single digit operating expense leverage as we keep strategically investing in brand-building activities around the world and efficiently managing our operating expenses.
Our net interest income came in at a positive $66 million slightly above the full year forecast we provided in our last earnings call.
For 2012 our best estimate is that net interest income will come in between $20 million and $40 million primarily due to lower interest rates in some international locations.
We expect this income to be spread relatively evenly across the quarters in 2012 and we'll update you each quarter as appropriate.
Finally we closed 2011 with an underlying effective tax rate of 23.9% and expect our 2012 underlying effective tax rate to fall between 24% and 25%.
Moving to our cash flow from operations.
Year-to-date this came in at $9.5 billion.
As a reminder this cash flow result includes $769 million contribution made to our pension plans in the first quarter of 2011.
Net of these additional pension plan contributions we grew our net cash flow from operations a positive 7% for the full year.
With regards to our share repurchase program our net share repurchases totaled $2.9 billion in 2011 at the high end of the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range communicated during our last earnings call.
And in 2012 we again expect to repurchase a net share amount within the same $2.5 billion to $3 billion range.
Now let me take a moment to update our outlook on several additional items that may help you model our business in 2012 starting with a quick reminder about this year's calendar.
Even though 2012 is a leap year our first quarter of 2012 will have one less day when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
And the fourth quarter of 2012 will have 2 more days when compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now let me come back with our outlook on commodities.
As we indicated in our last earnings call our incremental commodity costs for 2011 came in at approximately $800 million.
As a reminder these costs were related to the raw material and conversion costs associated with sweeteners metals juices and PET plastic.
As we look ahead to 2012 we anticipate the underlying commodities related to these inputs will remain somewhat pressured driven primarily by increases in the cost of juices and sweeteners.
As a result we expect the full year 2012 incremental impact of commodity costs on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million.
Having said that we believe we have the right strategic plans in place to mitigate the impact of these incremental commodity costs and remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-term growth targets.
Turning now to currency.
These have continued to fluctuate with the dollar strengthening although more moderately against many key currencies.
We're mostly hedged for 2012 on the euro and yen with good coverage on several other currencies.
After considering these hedged positions we currently expect currencies to have a low single-digit negative impact on operating income for the first quarter of this year and a mid-single digit negative impact for the full year.
As per our normal practice we'll update you both on our commodity and currency forecast on a quarterly basis as we go through the year.
Now let me update you on our productivity goals.
As we closed 2011 we've now successfully completed our 2008 to 2011 4-year global productivity program.
We completed this program on plan and with actual annualized savings of over $500 million exceeding our initial savings target of $400 million to $500 million.
As Muhtar mentioned earlier we're now launching a new 4-year productivity and reinvestment program.
In light of this I want to take a moment and walk you through the components of the new program.
First a new 4-year global productivity initiative starting this year.
This initiative will target between $350 million and $400 million in annualized savings focused around 4 primary areas: one global supply chain optimization; two global marketing and innovation effectiveness; three OpEx leverage and operational excellence; and four data and IT systems standardization.
We're in the initial stages of defining the one-time costs associated with capturing these savings and we'll provide an update on these costs in our next earnings call.
Second as we move through 2011 we accelerated our CCR integration efforts to support brand-building initiatives reinvest in marketing and sales capabilities as well as to partially offset some of last year's increasing commodity costs.
As a result we effectively realized nearly all of the $350 million in annualized savings in 2011 almost 3 years ahead of schedule.
This is a testament to the great work of our CCR team and their ability to effectively realize and capture synergies while simultaneously delivering profitable growth.
Further we have successfully identified incremental CCR integration synergies in North America primarily in the area of our North American product supply which will better enable us to service our customers and consumers.
As such we now believe our CCR integration efforts will capture an incremental $200 million to $250 million above our original $350 million target.
And we expect to capture these incremental annualized synergies starting this year in 2012 and fully realize them by the end of 2015.
Correspondingly we're also increasing our estimate of total one-time cost associated with the capture of CCR synergies from $425 million to $800 million as we implement new initiatives to capture these higher synergies.
Therefore combining both our new global productivity initiative and our newly expanded CCR integration efforts represents a total incremental annualized savings of $550 million to $650 million.
We expect to phase in the capture of these total incremental savings over 4 years starting in 2012 through the end of 2015.
Going forward we'll report our progress in capturing these total incremental savings under one joint productivity and reinvestment program.
As for how we intend to invest the savings generated by this new program first and in line with our 2020 Vision these funds will enhance ongoing system-wide brand-building initiatives.
And second as these savings are realized they may also help mitigate potential incremental near-term commodity costs.
As we look back on 2011 we are greatly encouraged by our business achieving yet another solid year of quality results.
There is no better proof that our 2020 Vision is working than our company's continued ability to consistently deliver results that meet or exceed our long-term growth targets even while facing volatile market conditions.
And as you consider how to model our business going forward I want to be very clear that our system remains fully committed to continuing our relative historic price premium for our brands in the marketplace.
For as we have communicated several times in the past we strongly believe and have consistently proven that the best way to drive long-term sustainable value is by earning price with our consumers in concert with a robust occasion-based brand package and channel strategy that drives profitable sustainable growth.
That is why we remain confident we can keep delivering results in line with our long-term growth targets.
Our system is healthy and financially strong.
We continue to generate cash invest in our brands execute our 2020 Vision and growth strategies and pay a healthy dividend.
Our seasoned management team over 146 000 motivated company associates and highly capable global bottling partners are making the right actions and executing the right strategies to build on our strengths to refresh a thirsty world and to drive our 2020 Vision.
Before concluding our prepared remarks I want to remind you that I'm looking forward to presenting at CAGNY in Boca Raton on Wednesday February 22; as well as at the CAGE Conference in London on Wednesday March 21.
I hope to see many of you there at these great investor and analyst events.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar I guess 2 questions on the overall growth we saw in the quarter.
We had been seeing 5s and 4s in terms of unit volume growth.
We saw plus 3% in the quarter.
I know comparisons were a factor but can we zero in on the emerging markets trends you're seeing? And you highlighted the emerging markets markets were per caps or below 150.
You highlighted that was a plus 4% in the quarter.
It was a plus 6% for the year.
So is it possible to generalize on what's going on in those less developed markets and some of the plans you have to improve on that plus 4%? You mentioned 2 questions.
The one is on emerging markets.
Is there another one? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and the second is -- I guess the 2 parts are a what's driving that slowdown from kind of a plus 6% to a plus 4%? And then b as you think about trying to see that 4% become a better number in coming quarters what are some of the things you think that are going to help you do that? Yes.
I mean I think first I don't think you can draw any trend.
And we're pleased with our volume growth of 3% which is in line with our long-term growth targets.
And I think it's important to note the following: We're cycling an organic volume growth of 5% in the prior year and full year volume is 4% at organically high end of our long-term growth target for the year.
And I'm really particularly pleased that all operating groups grew in the quarter.
So a cornerstone of our vision is balanced growth across all geographies and balanced growth across our portfolio.
We achieved that both for the quarter and for the year.
And I don't think you can draw any conclusions.
And also we achieved this kind of growth in the year with not only just a very volatile economic environment volatile commodity environment but also one-offs like the issue in the Japan the flooding in Thailand rightsizing in a huge market like China where now our transactions are significantly ahead of our volume which is a testament to the health of the business.
And so yes we've had some -- there has been some dislocations in some Middle East markets because of the volatility there because of what's happened like Egypt and like other parts in North Africa.
We believe that we see that improving.
There's been -- South East Europe has been under tremendous pressure.
Again those markets are under 150 per capita because of all the volatility that's going on in Europe and around Greece.
But I think we shouldn't draw any conclusions.
As we look into 2012 we see healthy trends continuing in Latin America healthy trends continuing in Eurasia and Africa -- African continent and also Middle East and Eurasia.
We see healthy trends in most of the Pacific Rim and area and we see healthy trends right here in North America.
Right now we see better trends in terms of the consumer mobility eating out more and just less confusion of the consumer here in North America than we did 12 months ago.
And we see that manifesting itself in our Foodservice business.
And Europe finally I think is going to be more volatile.
And I think we will probably see first half of the year being more challenged in Europe than the second half of the year.
That's sort of the way I would sum it.
But I do -- in Europe we have some great markets continuing to grow like Germany like Scandinavia like Northwest Europe.
And then we still have challenging markets in the Southern Rim.
Although again we had moderate growth in Spain also in the fourth quarter.
So I believe that we will achieve our long-term growth targets over time in terms of volume as well as also in terms of our ability to generate price mix across the world.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if I could follow up zeroing in on some of those externals that you're describing those dislocations you mentioned in regions like the Middle East and some of the other more recently more challenging markets when you think about what's going on in some of those markets from a broader consumer standpoint and kind of what the Coca-Cola Company can do about those things how are your packaging initiatives changing? And how are you thinking about spending money at the pull level in terms of how you're proposing folks take an added interest in your products in those markets? Number one Mark our brands are getting stronger.
We're continuing to invest and you will see us continue to invest.
And what happens in a quarter is not the result of our investment in that quarter or the previous quarter but what are our investments 3 or 4 5 6 quarters ago.
And we will continue to invest.
Our brands continue to gain share.
And if you look at our share results overall right now in the world both in sparkling and in still beverages they're all-time high.
Brand metrics for sparkling as well as still beverages are trending in a very healthy manner.
So brand health investments stronger system better alignment all basically works in our favor even in times of volatility.
And we're seeing that manifest itself.
Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Question.
Looking out to 2012 we're likely going to see significant stepped up competitive spending in North America maybe in some other markets.
Gary you talked about sustaining a price premium in the market.
Muhtar you talked about the long-term brand-building strategy.
So how are you thinking about balancing profit growth goals against sacrificing any market share in the event that the stepped up spending is greater than you expected in any one market any one given year? To what extent do you use portfolio management et cetera? Look you are mostly Bill talking about North America here right? LLC</strong> Yes.
I mean there could be stepped up spending in select international markets but it probably would be mostly in North America.
It's yet to be seen.
Yes.
So let me address North America first.
We've achieved a pretty healthy price mix in the fourth quarter 2% including a rate increase in retail pricing of sparkling beverages at 4% in North America.
And our brand strength continues with brand Coca-Cola up 1% in the same quarter.
And I believe -- I think it would be right to assume that this kind of rational pricing would continue in terms of rate for 2012.
And that's what I would say because I think there is never room in business for irrationality over the long term.
And that's how I would project.
And I think we have -- we're going into this from a point of strength.
Our brands are stronger.
Our system is much stronger.
Our metrics for customer service are much much better and I see us continuing with our momentum.
And I think pricing actions should continue into 2012 in terms of rationality.
And we anticipate taking additional pricing on key segments of the business through this year in accordance with our normal commercial practices.
And we manage a very broad portfolio of our business.
That's how I would reference it.
In terms of international I think you heard Gary talk about a 3% price mix in international and I believe that that's a testament again to the strength of our international business which continues to be able to generate good price mix on top of good volume and still growing our market share.
Those are the key metrics for international.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drill down a little bit more on -- hoping you can provide a little bit more color on the price mix globally that you reported up 1% in the quarter considering your geography mix was negative.
So I guess I'd like to hear what some of the dynamics are that drove a negative geography mix? And then also I'd be curious to hear how your price mix was impacted by your increased effort behind your smaller packages in a few of your key markets like North America and China.
Sure.
Bonnie why don't I take that one initially anyway.
If you look where we actually came out was -- on consolidated price mix it was right at 1.5% positive.
So if you take that 3% for international including BIG 2% for North America and then put like a negative 1% on geographic you get right at -- it's 1.5% is where it comes out.
And I would characterize it this way: that is a very good thing for the long-term.
And that may sound unusual for me to say.
But what it means is that we are continuing to invest and grow all of the emerging markets around the world.
Most of those do have margins below the U.S.
or Europe for example the more developed markets.
But we're not milking the business.
We're continuing to grow the business.
At the same time get very healthy margins in the business and you can see those coming through the bottom line.
So we continue to strengthen the whole business globally.
As long as we're doing the right thing I think you're going to see a negative geographic mix for a very long time because what you want to see is healthy growth in emerging markets.
You want to see very good growth in India.
You want to see very good growth in China et cetera.
And at the same time as Muhtar said and critically important then growth actually across every geographic region in which we operate.
But when you put all that together you will get negative geographic growth and I think that's a great thing.
But in total as long as it's coming out in our 1% to 2% range in the quarter it came out right in the middle of that we're exactly where we want to be.
Yes Bonnie just to complement what Gary said I think the key takeaways from how we think about our business and the health of our business overall is that as long as we can continue to achieve our volume targets which we believe we can and coupled with the kind of price mix positive price mix that Gary talked about that we achieved for the year and for the quarter I think -- coupled again with the investments that we are making have been making and are continuing to make in the business add on to that the productivity and reinvestment program add on to that the increased weight of our total marketing because imagine every year in the last 3 4 years we've been adding more -- around 1 billion cases to our total business that brings with it more marketing more distribution more production all of that and then the positive share gains then we feel very confident that we can continue to deliver our long-term targets despite all the volatility in the world.
And Bonnie let me just come back to the last part of your question.
I forgot to -- on rightsizing in -- I'll characterize it this way.
In China what we're able to do is actually take the entry-level pack from a 600 ml down to a 500 ml size bottle at the same price.
So we actually gave the consumer something they actually preferred at the same price which implicitly carries a price increase inside of that.
So from there we actually generated margin.
For the U.S.
what we're very focused on is ensuring we’re giving the consumer -- this is back to that occasion-based right package right channel right time right place giving the consumer what they want.
This is the way you drive profitable sustainable growth and deliver margins rather than just taking a couple of sizes stacking it high and selling it cheap.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on the balance comments that you made earlier.
And I guess if you look at 2011 one of the real encouraging things is that the share of incremental profit in 2011 versus 2010 was pretty broad-based.
So most regions contributed to incremental profit in 2011.
If you look out to 2012 is that broadly looking at the world this year that you'll see more incremental profit growth from more regions and I guess that helps offset some of the volatility in Europe? And then also just connected to that gross profit I guess a little surprised that you're expecting gross margins to be flat given the moderation in input cost.
So if you could talk a little bit about that as well.
This is Muhtar.
Let me just start answering your question and then Gary can come in also.
But I think in terms of the overall businesses concerned we believe that we can definitely continue to achieve a balanced portfolio and balanced geographic growth.
And I think it is really critical for us to be able to do that as we've done in '09 '10 and '11.
And we have reason to believe that we can grow across Western markets and we can grow across certainly across at a higher rate across our emerging markets and that you'll see that continuing.
And as we continue to gain scale in the emerging markets you will continue to see our margins improving in those markets as they have been doing in the last 3 4 years.
So I will just say that yes definitely balanced across geographies North America Japan Europe.
And then certainly again broad-based in the portfolio both in sparkling and in still beverages.
And still beverages growth that I mentioned in Latin America for example and the fact that it's an almost -- it's got to 1 billion cases in Mexico after 4 short years after Jugos Del Valle got integrated successfully into our business and now it's in many many markets flourishing in many markets across Latin America is just another testament of still how much growth Latin America has still to offer.
And the good news is that again the growth -- as we build on growth on Jugos Del Valle it hasn't stopped in any way the growth of sparkling beverages that continue to flourish and continue to prosper in Latin America.
So Bryan it's Gary.
Let me just add to that a couple of things.
When you're talking about -- first on balanced growth the other thing I'd say is as you think about obviously the most volatile region or economically challenged region this year will be Europe -- but also remember that this is a year where there are 2 events taking place in Europe the Olympics and the Euro Cup are both this year and we happen to be the sponsor of both of those.
And so I think it's one of those things that's going to help us in that market as well.
Relative to gross margins I'd say what you should expect to see is you should have seen increasing margins.
But what's happening is with that $350 million to $450 million of commodity pressure what we're doing is we believe we can offset that and hold our margins with the pricing actions that we're taking in the market as well as the productivity efforts that we're taking as well.
So it's really those commodity pressures that again granted are half of what they were in '11 but still substantial in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And Gary I guess in terms of the gross margin the geographic mix I guess would also be a slight drag on that as well.
Is that right? It actually is.
Yes it is.
And Bryan just to close it don't underestimate the fact that what I mentioned about immediate consumption growth.
That is a critical element that has higher margins higher prices and it improves the mix of our business.
And that is continuing at a very healthy rate particularly also in Western markets like North America as well as Europe.
And that is again a key testament to the strength of our system which requires very disciplined execution in the marketplace on a day-to-day basis.
And I was recently in Western Europe in the marketplace with John Brock our partner in CCE and we saw great examples of how both the activation has already started around the Olympics but also great execution in the marketplace from an immediate consumption perspective as well as the brand price pack occasion channel architecture really working in our favor.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gary a bit of a follow-up to Bryan's question but really drilling into North America profit number.
In fourth quarter first clean quarter in lapping CCE acquisition your profit was up 25%.
I think the benefit that you called out in Q1 the timing shift on marketing was about 7 points.
So even excluding that it looks like the profit was up pretty nicely in fourth quarter.
So maybe a little bit of color as to what drove that profit improvement in Q4.
And then as you think about 2012 you've got moderating inflation you've got pricing that went into the marketplace you've got cost synergies and cost savings coming through why wouldn't we expect to see a pretty healthy profit growth in North America in 2012? Okay.
Thanks Judy very insightful question.
Now let me see if I can give an insightful answer.
Here's what I'd tell you.
Relative to the fourth quarter performance on North America you do see very healthy increase.
A lot of that is actually what we're cycling.
Because a lot of the marketing in the fourth quarter in legacy CCE when we acquired it there was a lot of marketing that was spent in the fourth quarter of 2010 that CCE had already planned and then we executed against in that fourth quarter.
This year actually got spread through the year.
So it was a timing of marketing and so there are a few of those type anomalies.
If you remember if you go back I think I said in the third quarter call that the fourth quarter of this year will be the first quarter that's actually comparable but there are still some unusual things in the fourth quarter of 2010 that you need to go back and make sure you look at.
So I just -- I'd say everyone on the call if you're interested in that go back and look at some of those things.
And what you'll see it'll actually bring that profit increase down.
It's still a nice increase and profitable but it'll bring it down some in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Relative to 2012 let me just say I hear you and we are very enthusiastic about our business in North America.
It is operating well.
They were able to do one of the largest vertical integrations in the history of business and do it flawlessly get basically 4 years of synergies in the first year increased those synergies and at the same time continue to execute and take share in the market in a very profitable way.
So I feel very good about North America I'm bullish on North America.
And we've got a very capable team over there executing every day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Gary just a follow-up on currency.
The mid-single digit impact for the full year 2012 sounds like the hedged position is a bit of a drag.
If you just take the spot rates it sort of calculates to more like a low-single digit rate for the full year.
So is that the correct assumption? And then to the extent that if there is an upside to currency is it fair to assume that that's going to come more from the emerging market currencies that you don't really hedge? Yes Judy.
Actually the hedge positions we have are in the money today.
So on the euros particularly we're in the money on that.
So better than current spot.
But where the drag is coming from and what you're not seeing is that it's really all those emerging market countries.
And you'd be surprised at a lot of little countries that actually can start having you add them all up and they can have a pretty large impact which is moving you from -- I think you're probably seeing low-single digits and I'm seeing mid-single digits full year even though it's low-single digits first quarter.
But if you look at Brazil which is one of the big ones it's been a pretty big move.
Brazil strengthened significantly during last year then weakened significantly and now it's coming back some.
But it's a lot of these smaller emerging market currencies that are giving that impact.
Now with that said if you -- let me just tell you give you some idea of the volatility.
The swing of currencies on our earnings in 2012 in the last month is over $100 million in the last 30 days.
And that's an improvement by the way.
Because we're seeing those kind of volatilities we're seeing a lot of those emerging market currencies starting to come back and they're coming back as the world is starting to accept a little risk where there was total risk aversion a month -- 6 weeks ago.
So is there some upside? I hope so but I don't know today.
Because of the volatility we just don't know.
But I think as we move through the year we'll continue -- but the volatility is going to continue as well.
And our final question today comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
In Japan you had excellent volume growth and yet margins in the Pacific region were awful.
And that to me was -- and when I say awful they were down a lot year-over-year.
That to me is surprising especially given you had single-serve growth in Japan.
So if you could address that that would be really helpful.
And then 2 other markets that looked surprisingly soft Brazil went flat which it really had been sort of bucking difficult economic trends.
Did something change in Brazil? And then finally it looks like Philippines were down fairly close to 20%.
So if you could just address those 3 markets please? Sure Caroline.
Let me start.
I think Pacific volume grew a healthy 5% in both Q4 and the full quarter.
And yes Japan actually -- very positive in Japan and it's a testament again to the strength of our system in Japan to what we're doing in Japan to the leadership of our business as well as our system in Japan.
And I think that we ended up slightly positive despite all the dislocations in Japan.
And that again basically bodes well going forward as to the strength of our business there.
I think in terms of your question how that relates to the Pacific you need to look at I think the full year results of the Pacific.
It was from an income perspective overall positive.
And it's about the timing and it's about marketing.
Expenses also.
How they're sort of distributed over the year.
In terms of Brazil I would say that Brazil -- I could just summarize by saying volume was up 1% for the full year.
General slowdown of the economy and unfavorable weather did impact our business but we are outperforming the industry gaining share across all categories for the quarter and the full year.
And I think you should expect sequential improvement in Brazil as we move through 2012.
As far as Philippines is concerned we've had essentially a difficult year as we continue to transform that business as it needs to be transformed into a healthy situation for the long term.
And think about our German business it took us a while to get it going again.
We believe that certainly the worst has passed us in the Philippines and that we should have -- in terms of also the tough macroeconomic environment post the elections has lingered on.
But we believe that 2012 will be a better year in the Philippines than -- 2012 will be a better year than 2011.
And I think Gary just wants to add something.
Yes Caroline it's Gary.
I just want to correct one thing.
On the Philippines I think you said you were looking at it you were thinking it was down 20% or so.
Let me just -- Philippines in the fourth quarter and full year were down high-single digits.
So high-single digits.
It was not anything close to 20%.
Good.
Thank you Gary and Jackson.
So in closing our strong 2011 performance results and our consistent belief in the solid fundamentals of this great business provide us with the confidence we need to reaffirm our belief in our 2020 Vision.
We're refreshing a thirsty world with a capable resilient and advantaged system.
We're laser-focused on delivering our 2020 Vision and we remain committed to driving shareowner value through consistent continuous investments for growth dividend distributions and share repurchases.
And I'd like to thank you for your continued trust and confidence in The Coca-Cola Company.
And thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to speak with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports &amp; Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased with our first quarter results.
I've never been more excited about the prospects for our brands as well as our system or more proud of our people who are driving our consistent and quality performance results.
We continue to deliver volume value and profit growth as we enter the third year of our 2020 Vision and we once again saw positive volume growth across every one of our 5 geographic operating groups.
We also continue to gain volume and value share globally in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages and in every sparkling and still beverage category in which we compete.
We are winning with our global sparkling beverage portfolio which was up a solid 4% this past quarter led by the global growth of brand Coca-Cola which was up also a healthy 4%.
And we are continuing to win with our global still beverage portfolio which grew a strong 9% this quarter.
As we stand a little less than a quarter of the way into our journey towards our 2020 Vision today's results demonstrate yet again how we are passionately and effectively refreshing a thirsty world with a capable resilient and advantaged global bottling system.
Before reviewing our quarterly operating results let's take a few moments to address today's mixed global economic environment.
With respect to Europe we are observing ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty as 2012 unfolds.
Austerity measures implemented across the region are weighing on consumer confidence which recently reached its lowest level since the first quarter of 2009.
Despite the challenges in Europe we are executing on all fronts to drive performance and share gains.
So while we expect the macroeconomic conditions will remain difficult in Europe throughout 2012 we remain cautiously encouraged by our performance in this market.
Turning to the United States.
Despite its struggle with a sustained period of relative high unemployment we're pleased to see some early signs of a slowly improving macroeconomic environment.
We remain firmly committed to building strong brands and creating value in the United States to capture more than our fair share of the industry's profitable growth.
Finally let me touch on recent macroeconomic developments across a couple of key BRIC markets.
In China we've all seen economists lower their 2012 GDP growth rate forecast.
While we agree that there has been some moderate slowdown in China we also believe that this is a national progression and that it is a positive for the long-term sustainable growth of the country.
As we move through 2012 we anticipate that our business in China may not be immune to this cooling economy and therefore we may also see our volume results in China moderate to some extent.
Having said that we are confident that China will continue to serve as a double-digit growth market for our business over the long term.
As for Brazil which underwent a cooling-down period of its own in 2011 there are now signs of improving consumer sentiment.
We expect this trend to hold as we move through the balance of 2012 with our business in Brazil continuing to gain market share.
In summary we always find ourselves operating in a fast-evolving global environment one with some economies slowing other economies stabilizing while sustaining high unemployment and still others improving and well on their way to recovery.
In all cases we remain intently focused on realizing our 2020 Vision and we will keep investing through these challenging times to drive long-term advantaged and sustainable growth.
So if we have learned anything these past few years it is that during times of ongoing uncertainty consumers are even thirstier for brands that inspire real moments of optimism and happiness.
Turning now to our total company performance results.
Our volume grew 5% in the quarter ahead of our long-term target and fueled by organic volume growth in all 5 geographic operating groups.
As for our financial results we grew comparable currency-neutral net revenue by 7% and we grew comparable currency-neutral operating income by 8% once you adjust for the cycling of lower commodity cost in the prior period.
As such we remain confident in our ability to deliver full year 2012 operating income results in line with our long-term targets.
Now let's review our performance results across our global markets in more detail beginning with North America our flagship market.
Our North America business was up 2% delivering an eighth consecutive quarter of growth.
Importantly our North America system once again led the industry capturing volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Our sparkling beverages in North America were up 1% in the quarter with brand Coca-Cola also positive in the quarter while further improving its brand health scores.
The momentum behind both Coke Zero as well as Fanta continues with these brands up 9% and 4% respectively this quarter and we also earned higher pricing in North America which enabled us to generate a positive 3% price mix for both bottled and canned sparkling beverages as well as our total North America beverage business.
Our still beverages in North America were up 6% in the quarter gaining both volume and value share while delivering industry-leading results across many categories.
In sports drinks POWERADE grew double digits yet again this quarter while once again capturing volume and value share.
Our glacéau trademark grew 9% also capturing volume and value share led by another quarter of double-digit growth for both smartwater and vitaminwater zero.
And our key performance again accelerated this quarter up double digits led by Gold Peak which grew double digits for the 20th conservative -- consecutive quarter.
And in water DASANI also expanded double digits this quarter with the national rollout of our innovative PlantBottle that is positively impacting purchase intent and brand equity.
As we've said many times before we believe North America is a growth market for our business.
Despite a challenging competitive and macroeconomic backdrop our results both validate this belief and provide us with every reason to remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for America.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group which grew 8% in the quarter including 6% growth for brand Coca-Cola.
In China the overall beverage industry was not immune from the impact of the economic slowdown we mentioned earlier as well as the unseasonably cold weather that occurred during this quarter's Chinese New Year celebration.
Despite this our business in China delivered a solid 9% growth this quarter while cycling a strong first quarter last year.
And importantly our rightsizing efforts are generating strong incremental transactions in line with our expectations.
Sparkling beverage transactions were up double digits this past quarter driven by the expansion of our 300 ml package.
This helped us capture both volume and value share in the sparkling beverage category this quarter.
Just a few weeks ago I was pleased and honored to inaugurate our 42nd bottling plant in China in Yingkou.
This new plant is now our largest production facility in China with an expected annual production capacity of more than 5 billion servings of sparkling and still beverages.
This new LEED-certified plant is part of our system's 3-year $4 billion China investment plan and reaffirms our strong commitment to China.
Japan's first quarter results were up 3% building on the great work done by our system to restore and strengthen our business during a very challenging 2011.
Our Japan business gained both volume and value share in the nonalcoholic beverages this quarter.
And this growth in Japan was broad-based with numerous sparkling and still beverages delivering positive results including brand Coca-Cola up 2% Fanta up 6% I LOHAS water up 4% and Georgia coffee up 3%.
Additionally our Japan business grew across all channels including convenience stores and vending.
Also during the quarter our Japan business unit was recognized with our company's highest honor the 2011 Woodruff Cup based on the business unit's achievement of key performance metrics as set forth in our 2020 Vision.
As such we remain confident that our system in Japan is well aligned and in strong -- in a strong position to deliver full year low single-digit growth in 2012.
I also want to call out 2 other markets within this diverse and dynamic geographic region of the world.
First our business in the Philippines is growing again up mid single digits this past quarter reflecting how the hard work put in by our Bottling Investment Group keeps yielding strong results.
While we believe there is still much opportunity left to be captured in the Philippines we also believe that our business there is on the right track and that we are successfully building the capabilities needed to deliver consistent and sustainable growth.
Second our business in Thailand grew over 20% in the first quarter and brand Coca-Cola was up over 30% as we build momentum in this market while investing for the future.
We have plans in place to expand our beverage production capabilities in this fast-growing market consistent with our system's culture of targeted investment that underpins our 2020 Vision.
Moving now to Latin America our volume grew 5% for the quarter including 4% growth for brand Coca-Cola.
In the process we gained additional share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as in both sparkling and still beverages in Latin America this quarter.
Latin America's solid first quarter results were driven by our consistent growth in Mexico improved results in Brazil and high single-digit growth in both our Latin Center and South Latin regions.
In Mexico we delivered 3% growth cycling 14% from last year.
We captured additional nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share in Mexico and this is a further testament to our team's ability to execute clear occasion-based channel strategies across all beverage categories in our highest per capita market.
As for Brazil we reiterated many times last year that as this country's economy improved so would our results.
This quarter's 4% volume growth in Brazil validates this belief and importantly our continued volume and value share gains in Brazil are a testament to our sustained long-term growth strategies which never wavered during last year's economic slowdown.
Looking ahead we expect our 2012 growth results in Brazil to remain steady at low to single – mid-single digits as the Brazilian economy recovers.
And our commitment to the future of Brazil has never been stronger as shown by our system's recent announcement to accelerate our investments in Brazil to nearly $8 billion through 2016.
Our Eurasia and Africa business grew a strong 9% in the quarter including solid 9% growth for brand Coca-Cola.
Our overall group results were led by robust growth across the entire region including growth in India Russia South Africa the Middle East and North Africa.
Overall performance was once again led by India which grew 20% in the quarter delivering balanced growth across all categories.
I was particularly encouraged by brand Coca-Cola's 27% growth in India this past quarter and our still beverages in India were up over 20% in the quarter led by Maaza up over 30%.
Russia was up 3% this quarter cycling last year's strong 27% growth.
Our business in Russia continues to be led by the strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola which once again delivered double-digit growth.
Additionally our Dobriy juice brand delivered 9% growth and as a result our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share.
Finally we saw positive volume across growth in every other business unit in our Eurasia and Africa group including double-digit growth in South Africa as well as in the Middle East and North Africa region.
We are excited about the future opportunities for our business in this dynamic growing part of the world.
Moving now to Europe.
Volume was up 1% gaining share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Notably this is Europe's seventh consecutive quarter of positive growth.
And this growth was led by Germany which was up 3% for the quarter capturing once again share in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as in both sparkling and still beverage categories.
Brand Coca-Cola was up 4% this quarter in Germany benefiting from both our effective marketing campaigns and our consumer recruitment initiatives.
In total this marks Germany's fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth.
This consistency validates how our ongoing bottling restructuring efforts have enhanced our ability to create value during difficult economic times.
Another region where our business is showing signs of moderate improvement despite challenging economic conditions is Central and Southern Europe.
Most markets in this region posted positive growth including Italy which was up 4% for the quarter.
Another very important geography where we achieved positive results is Spain up 6% for the quarter.
We are closely monitoring our business in both of these markets in light of recently announced austerity measures.
Importantly we believe we have the right brands the right strategies and the right capabilities in place to continue delivering long-term sustainable growth in Europe.
As we look ahead to this summer both in Europe as well as across the world we are very excited about the unique opportunity to grow the value of our brands even further through our investments in the 2012 London Summer Olympic Games.
For context during the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics we activated 36 markets across the globe.
For this year's Summer Olympics we plan to activate almost 100 markets leveraging content experiences and conversations generated through our global program.
This fully integrated 2012 global Olympic marketing program will be all about recruiting teams by tapping into emotional passion points like sports and music.
An early success of this program is the over 160 000 YouTube views of Mark Ronson's behind-the-scenes footage as he developed our new Olympics theme song.
These views were generated without any active promotions on our part and once again are a clear example of how we are successfully engaging consumers with innovative compelling and shareable social media content.
As we work to engage with our consumers we're also committed to building a better tomorrow.
Last month we released our 2012 Global Water Stewardship and Replenishment Report detailing our ongoing work to reduce recycle and replenish the water we use around the world.
To date our company has launched 386 Community Water Partnership projects in 94 countries.
These projects have improved water access for 1.6 million people including more than 0.25 million women and children in Africa.
In 2011 alone our Community Water Partnership projects replenished 35% of the water used in our finished product beverages.
These projects also benefited the communities we serve by providing sustainable agriculture training and resources to more than 12 000 farmers and by supporting the reforestation of over 30 000 hectares.
As we build a better tomorrow our efforts and performance are being recognized.
This past quarter we were humbly honored to receive several acknowledgments.
Firstly Fortune Magazine's survey of the Most Admired Companies listed us at #4 in their 2012 rankings up from #6 in 2011 and up 20 spots from where we ranked just 5 years ago.
In these same rankings Fortune Magazine's survey once again rated us as the #1 most admired beverage company in the world.
Secondly Forbes also announced just 2 weeks ago that our company had risen to #7 on their publication's list of America's Most Reputable Companies based on a consumer survey by Reputation Institute.
This ranking is up from #25 in 2011.
We also saw our standing improved within the Harris Interactive reputation study an annual survey that measures the corporate reputations of the 60 most visible companies in the U.S.
In their latest survey our company climbed to #3 up from 15th the previous year.
While all of us at The Coca-Cola Company are proud of these achievements we understand that they only represent a snapshot of where we are today rather than where we aspire to be tomorrow.
As I have stated many times before the complexity and the challenge of today's mixed global economy also brings real opportunities and exciting growth prospects.
What was true on Day 1 of our 2020 Vision is still true today.
Our system has only just begun to achieve its potential.
We have a clear roadmap for growth a productivity and reinvestment program that is driving efficiencies and a global bottling system that is well aligned and poised for execution.
This strong alignment has not only enabled us to effectively navigate the volatility of these past several years it has also put us in a position of real strength.
That is why we are confident that our Coca-Cola system will continue to passionately refresh a thirsty world and create value for all of our consumers customers and shareholders.
And with that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar.
Good morning everyone.
We delivered strong results this quarter underscoring once again that our global system is well positioned to execute our strategic plans and alignment with our 2020 Vision.
We reported comparable earnings per share of $0.89 this quarter up 3% versus the prior year.
And as Muhtar shared earlier our earnings growth was driven by broad-based volume growth across all of our 5 operating groups.
In fact we had volume growth across nearly all of our business units within our global operations this quarter.
Comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 5% this quarter.
On a comparable basis the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 2% headwind in line with outlook we provided during our last earnings call in February.
In addition and also as for the outlook we provided through this quarter we cycled lower commodity cost in the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusting for the 3% impact relating to the cycling of these lower commodity cost our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 8% in the first quarter of 2012.
When you also consider that this quarter had one less selling day than the first quarter of 2011 we are very pleased with this operating income result.
Comparable currency-neutral net revenue grew 7% this quarter including a 3% increase in concentrate sales and 3% positive price mix.
The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue result was a 1% headwind.
This quarter's 3% consolidated price mix is particularly encouraging especially when considering today's challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Looking ahead we still expect our full year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2% in line with our long-term target range.
This quarter's comparable gross margin was in line with our full year 2011 gross margin consistent with the outlook we provided earlier this quarter.
As a reminder we expect our full year 2012 consolidated comparable gross margin to remain in line with full year 2011.
Our comparable currency-neutral SG&amp;A expenses were up 4% in the quarter as we sustained our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands.
As for operating expense leverage it came in positive this quarter.
For 2012 we still expect to capture low single-digit operating expense leverage as we further invest in strategic brand building initiatives around the world and effectively manage our operating expenses.
Our net interest income came in at $27 million this quarter ahead of our initial forecast primarily due to a benefit related to our interest rate swaps.
As such and based on our current best estimates of interest rates in our international operations we now expect our full year 2012 net interest income to come in at the higher end of the $20 million to $40 million range we provided in our last earnings call.
In addition we expect our net interest to come in close to even in the second quarter.
We'll continue to update you on net interest outlook on a quarterly basis.
Our underlying effective tax rate currently stands at 24.8% within the 24% to 25% range we communicated during our last earnings call.
As for our cash flow from operations this increased 13% year-to-date.
Please note that this cash flow result is net of the approximately $130 million in incremental contributions made to our pension plans this quarter when compared to the contributions we made to our pension plans in the first quarter of last year.
With regard to our share repurchase program our net share repurchases during the quarter totaled nearly $850 million including accruals for stock options and treasury shares that did not settle prior to the close of the quarter.
This places us well on track to achieve the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for full year 2012 as we communicated during our last earnings call.
Now let me take a moment to remind you of our full year outlook on currencies and commodities which we provided in our last earnings call.
With regard to commodities in our last call we said that we expected the full year 2012 incremental impact of the Big 4 commodity cost on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million.
And just a reminder the Big 4 commodities are aluminum sweetener juice and PET.
While our commodity cost outlook remains unchanged if current trends hold we may see this outlook slowly improve in the coming months.
And we'll update you on any changes to our outlook during our next earnings call.
As for currencies based on our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we continue to expect currencies to have a mid single-digit negative impact on operating income for the full year.
Furthermore we expect to see this impact come in at the high end of this mid single-digit range in the second quarter.
Let me highlight one additional item for those that model our business.
In light of the recent change to our global tea joint venture with Nestlé and as a reminder earlier this year we announced our agreement with Nestlé to refocus the geographic scope of this joint venture primarily to Europe and Canada while phasing out the joint venture in most other territories by the end of 2012.
Accordingly we have eliminated the joint venture volume from our reported results for both 2011 and 2012 in those territories where the joint venture is being phased out.
Please note that this change did not impact the company's reported volume results this quarter on a consolidated level or for any individual operating group.
Finally with regard to our new productivity and reinvestment program we reconfirm our expectations to capture total incremental annualized savings of $550 million to $650 million phased over a 4-year period starting in 2012 through the end of 2015.
As noted in our last call these funds will serve to enhance our ongoing system-wide brand building initiatives as we reinvest in our business to drive long-term profitable growth.
We're still in the initial stages of defining the total onetime cost associated with the capture of these incremental annualized savings and we'll provide an update on these costs during our next earnings call.
In summary as we begin the third year of our 2020 Vision we are greatly encouraged by our business achieving yet another solid quarter of quality volume value and profit results.
Our system remains healthy and financially strong.
We're generating cash investing in our world-class brands and executing our consistent growth strategies from a position of real strength.
And importantly we continue to pay a healthy dividend.
Our seasoned leadership team and highly capable global bottling partners are taking the right actions and executing the right strategies to successfully realize our 2020 Vision.
So while we're still navigating through an ongoing mixed global economic recovery we remain confident in our ability to deliver full year results in line with our long-term growth targets.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And sir our first question comes from Bill -- from Bryan Spillane Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had just a question.
You had a very strong first quarter and I think what was really encouraging was how broad-based your volume growth was and especially seeing markets like Japan North America Germany Philippines all sort of growing simultaneously.
Think about the balance of the year.
Muhtar could you talk a little bit about how you view that performance carrying out through the balance of the year maybe some of the factors that you've got in place or some of the activity you have in place to continue to drive that through the balance of the year? And then secondarily maybe Gary if you could just talk about if it's a -- given your potentially better view on cost balance of the year and the potential for some volume performance continuing to be well -- doing well this year just better drop through profitability I guess as we move through the year if we can just talk a little bit about that as well.
Bryan good morning thanks.
This is Muhtar.
I think what I'd like to just get -- the message I'd like to get across is that we leave behind the first quarter of 2012 with confidence and with momentum in our business.
And I think it is broad-based growth as you mentioned.
In fact the top 10 countries in our business generated about 65% -- a little over 65% of the total incremental growth cases -- organic unit case growth in the quarter.
And that is more broad-based than in the past.
And that's a good sign.
And I think we've always said that there's tremendous -- I see -- everywhere I go I see tremendous opportunity for our brands.
Our system is strong.
Our system -- this is the result of investments that our system continues to make every quarter and also generating revenue and we're able to crack this calculus for growth.
And everywhere we go in this difficult macroeconomic environment it's important to note that The Coca-Cola system is one of the most important net contributors to the economy.
Globally we're one of the top 10 private employers nongovernmental employers and we create -- based on our vision we will create an additional 120 000 new jobs in the next 10 years.
And more and more governments are recognizing that unemployment is the #1 #2 and #3 priority.
And I think with that with our system we're earning our right every day in every market.
And that's important.
As I -- obviously the macroeconomic conditions around the world is challenged.
The recovery is slow.
Unemployment remains high and is -- I believe will remain high as we go through this year.
But the premise Bryan on which we've built our 2020 Vision holds true today.
What we said is no matter how you slice and dice it there will be about 1 billion new people coming into the middle class.
We'll have about 800 million new urbanized consumers in the decade.
This decade that we're talking about 2010 to 2020.
Now the quarter we just left behind about 22 million new urbanized consumers and about 22 million to 25 million new middle class have been created in the world and we were there to serve their needs and refresh them.
So yes challenged environment; yes slow recovery; yes some slowing down in emerging markets.
But when we talk about slowing down you go down from a 9% to an 8.5% or an 8.2% I think there is still tremendous amount of growth and middle class creation around the world whether you take Africa Latin America Asia and we're there.
And in the western markets we've always said our balanced -- our vision calls for balanced growth balanced in geographies balanced in portfolio.
And once again we were able to validate that that is something that we are able to execute with our -- passionately with our bottling partners.
So I'll now pass it over to Gary to answer the second part of your question.
Bryan I guess I'd say a couple of things.
As we look it is still a challenged economic environment across the world.
We have seen -- if you think back actually first quarter of 2010 things looked like economically they were getting better and then they didn't.
First quarter of 2011 looked like things were getting better and then they didn't.
And then we've seen the significant volatility around commodities and currencies across the world over the last several years as well.
So I think -- I guess where we are is trying to be somewhat conservative and try to say we're 3 quarters -- or 3 months into the year 1 quarter into the year the kind of the smallest quarter in fact and I think we need to continue to go through the year.
Are things looking better? Yes it looks like interest is a little -- interest income is going to be a little bit better.
It looks like if things hold commodities will probably be better.
So things are actually looking pretty good but I think at this point our view was we kind of hold with where we are.
We kind of get through another quarter to kind of see how the year is going.
Is the economic recovery that we're starting to slowly see in the U.S.
going to continue or not? So that's kind of where we are.
We're kind of being -- trying to be conservative and recognize that we are in this as a marathon and not as a sprint.
This is about long-term value creation.
Just one point I'd add to -- that to Bryan is that 4 years ago we made some bets in terms of our strategy our 2020 Vision and I think those are now positioning us to win.
And I'd say that in this volatile world environment I think we see -- we are definitely a great hedge and a balanced hedge in what's happening in the world.
Research Division</strong> And just -- Gary just as a follow-up if it's -- if there's upside -- or Gary and Muhtar if there's upside more inclined to invest some of that back particularly given the momentum you have in some of these markets is that -- is there more room to invest if there's more funds generated? Well I'm happy to say that we are investing.
If you look at our marketing spend and if you look at how we're controlling all OpEx in the right way and then spending on our brands and you'll see that some of those numbers in the first quarter too coming to life and that's basically how we've always managed this business investing in our brands investing for the long term ensuring that we -- our brands remain healthy and get healthier all the time which they are.
And that generates again a great system alignment a great investment picture from our -- the total cash that we generated with our bottling partners.
And I said it before the results that you see this quarter this past quarter are not coming from the investments we made in this quarter.
They're coming from the investments that we made 4 5 6 7 quarters ago and the same is going to be true from 4 quarters or 5 quarters from now based on investments we're making today.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar the last time we met you said that you were headed off to Asia and you did share quite a bit of your enthusiasm with us already but can you talk a little more in depth about the prospects for Japan China and what the other real big drivers of growth will be going forward and how owning your bottlers in some key markets within China and Japan is impacting the business? Caroline yes I just spent a good bit of time in Asia a couple of weeks ago.
And I think you've seen the Pacific Group's volume growth up 8% which was broad-based in the quarter with the numbers that we've shared with you for places like -- not just China and Japan up 9% and 3% respectively but also for Thailand and the Philippines and so forth.
And I think importantly again very encouraged that brand Coca-Cola is up 6% in that massive geography and reported net revenue for the quarter up 12%.
And I think -- and good price mix across.
So it's important really to be able to ensure that when you have -- when we talk about sustainable growth we mean growth not just in volume not just in a certain category but broad-based growth and also growth in the revenue line that can be matched or better than the volume line and I think we've seen that.
And yes no question everyone you talk to whether it's the shop owner in any particular part of China or whether it's the government or whether it's some national government there is a little cooling down.
Is that -- I think that's healthy.
And I think that's healthy for the real estate market in China.
That's healthy for the banking industry in China.
That's healthy for the long-term sustainable growth of the economy in China which I have no doubt is going to continue.
So we see China as a fantastic opportunity.
As I said we've just opened our largest-to-date facility in China 42nd and the largest of them all and LEED-certified on top of it.
And that's again one sign of our commitment many more such factories to come in our $4 billion announced investment program for China.
And so I see China as certainly playing an important role for our 2020 Vision.
And particularly pleased about Japan where I met with all our bottling partners in Tokyo and presented their Woodruff Cup awards to each one of our bottling partners.
And again category by category we see very good improvement in our business in Japan.
So the terrible tragedy of 2011 allowed us to galvanize our system and strengthen our system and continue to grow our system.
And importantly every channel important channel like convenience like vending is now expected to grow in Japan.
And that's a very important thing for our business -- and categories whether it's coffee with Georgia or sparkling or tea.
Again we're generating growth.
So prospects I think overall we've always said the picture of success in Japan is low single-digit growth.
And I believe that we're poised well to achieve that target for Japan.
And then I went to Thailand where we're having as I said very good growth prospects and share gains tremendous share gains in that important market with a very healthy consumption habit for sparkling beverages.
And I see -- whether it's other markets like Vietnam or Indonesia or West Asia I see great prospects for our growth.
And I'll soon be also heading towards West Asia in a couple of months.
And again you heard the results that we've been able to post this past quarter in India continue to have very healthy brand metrics for Coca-Cola as well as our still brands there in that incredibly prospective geography.
So I think Asia overall little cooling healthy and great long-term prospects for both our business as well as I think leading the world out of some of the current global macro issues.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar -- sort of couple of questions Muhtar or Gary on North America.
One just in terms of the underlying industry performance and your performance in North America obviously the macro has been getting a little bit better but just in Q1 do you think that there was any benefit from a weather perspective if you've seen a big shift from take-home into immediate consumption? And then talking about your performance in the context of the competitive backdrop where obviously Pepsi has talked about spending more money so what sort of impact are you seeing from a competitive perspective in North America? And then Gary just on the profitability side in North America if you can just walk us through the puts and takes in Q1 as it relates to cycling of the commodities and kind of for the balance of the year how should we think about the phasing of commodities and the margins in North America as we go forward? Judy let me just take the first part of the question.
I think we continue to see validation a little more validation on what I indicated also in the previous call.
There are some signs healthier signs from the U.S.
consumer right now than it was 12 months ago at this time in terms of more travel more mobility more bookings.
And mobility is an important factor for our business for consumer goods.
And also I think eating out a little healthier numbers in terms of that that we were seeing compared to say 12 to 16 months ago.
Having said that -- and I do believe that that trend is likely to continue providing we can sort of keep -- have some prices on the -- at the pump for gasoline where -- about where they stay now.
So I premise that with that caveat.
I think for -- we have always said that United States is a growth business.
Despite the current macroeconomic challenges we've been posting growth quarter after quarter.
I'm very pleased that this past quarter also that sparkling beverages was positive brand Coca-Cola was positive.
And we've started putting together the framework for our growth in North America way before the acquisition of the CCE business in North America.
I want to reiterate that once again.
The brand price pack channel architecture the -- beginning -- getting our brands to a healthier position than they were previously getting the right package to be sold at the right outlet and the right channel at the right price all of that architecture we started working on 3 to 4 years ago.
And I think we are seeing some results out of all of that work.
And as I've said we believe that the positive sentiment that we see compared to a year ago of the U.S.
consumer slightly positive sentiment would probably continue is what I would estimate providing other conditions hold particularly the price of gasoline.
Gary? Yes.
Judy I'd say just a couple of things.
And the first I just want to congratulate our colleagues in North America because I think if you -- as you think about it and think about this quarter it was sparkling plus 1 brand Coca-Cola positive growth in the quarter.
And those are things that not that long ago I think everyone listening in this call would have said it's impossible to do.
And it's really working.
Everything that Muhtar is talking about is actually working.
And our brand score is getting better because of the things we have been doing over the last few years.
But then if you look at "All right great Gary got that but let's talk about the financial results and you're showing that on a comparable basis operating income is down 9% quarter on quarter.
So how do you talk about that?" Well on that one that is the issue that I alerted I think all of you to earlier this quarter.
The way the commodities hit last year that $800 million of commodity pressure that we had last year it all was in quarters 2 3 and 4 basically none of it in the numbers in Q1 in North America.
So when you adjust for that for just commodities that minus 9 actually gets to only slightly negative.
And then you have to recognize that there was one less day.
You adjust for that and actually North America suddenly flips into it was actually positive.
You take that then you look at remainder of year and you recognize that we've gotten the pricing so that the commodities aren't going to be that as big an issue going forward remainder of year.
And all the other things we've been doing we would expect to see North America in very good positive territory remainder of year.
Things are going knock on wood exactly the way we planned for them too at this point.
Just one last quick add onto that Judy.
Importantly to note the strategic focus in North America remains consistent on continuing to build strong brands creating value with our customers and building our systems continuing to build our system capability.
And so the strategic focus remains in place.
Secondly in this past quarter I'd note also that IC growth was ahead of total volume growth in North America.
That also helped generate a good price mix for our total business.
And also of course I just want to make sure I mention the share gains that are continuing across the board in North America for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Gary just on -- so if I think about that 3% the cycling of the lower commodity impact on your operating profit that's about $75 million.
And when you think about you're saying North America would have been slightly down x that cycling.
So the impact on North America from that would have been about $50 million and the rest would be in BG -- BIG? Yes the rest would have been in BIG.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the phasing of the $400 million of commodities this year is much more evenly spread out.
I guess we'll see depending on the commodity cost as we go forward but it's much more evenly spread out.
So we should start to see really the much more benign impact starting in Q2.
Very well put.
That's exactly right exactly right.
And then as I kind of mentioned when -- to Bryan's question earlier if then commodities hold with where they are today that actually $350 million to $450 million so call it $400 million actually could be coming down to the lower end and becoming more favorable versus what we've been talking about.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to a question on China.
I was actually hoping you could talk about the competitive landscape given Pepsi's new strategic alliance with Tingyi and how that may impact your business and strategy.
I guess thinking about it the alliance of the 2 strong competitors wouldn't this accelerate the pace that you execute your game plan? And also could you give us some color on how you will allocate the $4 billion investment among your different initiatives there? For instance will you spend more on infrastructure than brand building in the next few years? Okay Bonnie.
I think we have a strategy for China.
That strategy is not changing with what's happening across the industry.
I want to reiterate that.
That strategy is valid and still in place.
And obviously it will evolve as we introduce a wider variety of packages to promote affordability it has the consumer experience with our brands all with a focus to drive incremental increased transactions and profitable growth.
And to continue building brand equity with consumers I think this is critical for us and that will -- you will see us continue to do that.
I believe that we're confident in our ability to deliver double-digit growth over the long term and I think continuing introduction of a wider variety of packages to promote affordability and I think immediate consumption growth.
So we will continue driving all of those priorities.
As far as the investments are concerned $4 billion that I would say probably it's -- you could allocate about 50% into infrastructure and 50% into the brand building area.
That's probably a good split.
And if you looked at the past 3 years that's probably where it ended up.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Gary just wanted to follow up on Judy's question a little bit which was -- and I apologize if I missed this.
If we strip out the commodity stuff what have you the revenue growth was still great but the operating profit I think was still down.
So is that a profit mix issue? Is that simply an investment issue? And then Muhtar I just was wondering if you could clarify something because in your comments you guys hadn't stated explicitly that you would gain share in sparkling but you just mentioned that you had share gains across the board.
So is that a safe assumption then that you guys did in fact have share gains in North America in sparkling? Yes John.
Let me start -- well in fact I'll go ahead and answer that last part first.
We did have share gains pretty much across the board across the world and the U.S.
So we did have share gains in sparkling.
On the commodity issue relative to North America and if I don't exactly answer the question just come back and tell me but basically if you strip out the commodity impact North America's OI for the quarter instead of being down 9 would have been down 1.
It's exactly what it would have been.
And if then -- if you add in an extra day it would have been positive.
So what you're seeing is that 1 day actually 1 less day is having a huge impact on the P&amp;L because you've got basically all of the costs going through for the full quarter with a day less sales is basically what's happening which is why when you go to Q2 and 3 actually it becomes much more normalized and the commodities are not an issue at all.
In fact it kind of reverses a little bit because you had more of that hitting in Q2 and 3 last year with none of it hitting in Q1 last year.
So it's kind of a cycling thing but that's why when you adjust for all that our view is and what we had planned and what we saw all along is that North America actually started to improve significantly after Q1 into the remainder of the year.
And that's kind of what -- that's exactly what we're seeing today.
Research Division</strong> Okay so if we look at that impact I know you have 2 extra selling days in Q4 right? Right that's right.
Research Division</strong> So if we map out the cadence over the course of the year it seems like what we probably should see and you factor in your FX guidance is it -- should we be looking at the numbers sort of a little more back-end loaded a little more Q4 weighted with a little bit tougher Q2 when you put all this stuff together? Is that kind of the right cadence then? Yes John it is.
It is.
Now the CFO is going to come out in me okay because when my own guys -- and I get a rolling estimate here.
And when I see that I say "Oh you've given me a hockey stick " and so we're -- you try to manage against that as you're managing the business appropriately.
But the cadence of the business this year actually is exactly as you just said it.
That's exactly right.
It is more back-end loaded because of how the commodities hit and went through the P&amp;L last year and the 1 day less in the first quarter 2 extra days in the fourth quarter.
Some of the reason -- I have to hedge a little bit on this is because there was 1 less day you had a little bit of an Easter shift to help probably the first quarter slightly but you really can't measure it.
So I'd say basically what you're saying is exactly right.
And just to add on the North America front John I think it's important to note that we -- North America I want to reiterate had a great quarter in terms of both volume revenue overall NARTD share gains.
And also we see importantly a rational pricing environment in North America.
A 3% price mix gain is very important and I think those things should really give indication of health of the business as we move into the second and third quarters important second and third quarters of the year.
And therefore I am pleased with the results in North America.
And again I think Gary explained the anomaly of comparability there in terms of the operating income number.
And our final question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about the global competitive environment relative to what you thought it was going to be heading into the year? I know you discussed North America a little bit.
Can you broaden that globally? And I have a follow-up.
Yes well it's hand-to-hand combat out there every single day and everywhere -- but everywhere I go everywhere our operators go everywhere our leadership goes we see opportunity.
We see opportunity for our brands that are stronger.
We earn our price every day.
We're generating revenue growth.
We're net contributors to the economies and our brands are healthy.
And our IC business is growing ahead of our total business and that's a good thing for the world.
Our IC business globally grew 6% in the world compared to 5% global volume growth.
And by the way this volume growth that we just had in the first quarter is one of the highest organic volume growths we've had in the last say 8 to 10 quarters that I look back because this is all-pure organic growth and it is strong and there is momentum.
And I think as I've said the competitive environment I think out in the world is obviously consumers are reticent to go out to spend money.
The environment is not healthy particularly in Europe in terms of consumer sentiment but our business is able to continue to invest and also ensure that we generate value for our customers in Europe in this case large customers large format small format.
And one of the really important metrics that we always follow is immediate consumption which is a healthier mix.
It's growing ahead of our total business.
And once again that is a testament to the strength of our system because you can always -- it's much easier to go and gain distribution in the future consumption channel but in order to ensure that you supply and work in partner with every single small format store takes a very strong and a very different kind of system which is the one we have.
Research Division</strong> Great and maybe just a little more granular I mean relative to what you expected headed into the year because it seems like maybe in Europe the promotional and pricing environments may be a little bit worse and then we obviously saw Pepsi show their cards and perhaps the competitive environment in North America is a little better.
Is that fair? I think the environment in Europe is not any better for sure.
But look at some of the numbers that I shared with you earlier up 6% in Spain up 4% in Italy up -- Germany continues to grow Southeast Europe beginning to show signs.
I've said before Europe is a tale of 2 3 cities at least.
You've got Eastern Europe beginning to come out led by Russia.
You've got Southern Europe beginning to stabilize and Central and Northern Europe is still -- and led by Germany is -- I think the sentiment is slightly improving.
So overall the Southern Europe still remains an importantly challenged area but our business system is very strong in Southern Europe and we're benefiting from that.
In the U.S.
as I said consumer sentiment in terms of mobility in terms of travel bookings in terms of travel with -- on the highways in terms of eating out is better than it was 12 to 16 months ago.
This is Gary.
I want to come back John Faucher on your question.
I want to correct one thing.
In North America's share I went back and looked at the numbers as we were looking at this.
We gained value and volume share in total nonalcoholic beverages.
We gained significant volume and value share in still.
In sparkling it was a slight loss of share.
And the reason I said that we actually gained share is internally as I was thinking about it I was actually taking some pipeline filling out.
That's not the way you should look at it.
So there was a slight loss of share.
Thank you Gary and Jackson.
In closing this quarter's results provide yet another proof point that our company and our system are on track to deliver our 2020 Vision.
The tremendous opportunity we see ahead for our company in all of our markets remain intact.
As always we thank you for your interest and investment in our company.
There is no greater responsibility than earning and maintaining your trust and your confidence.
You can rest assured that our entire leadership team is working diligently to protect and grow the value of your investment in our company.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we'll turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look at our website for this information.
Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date results.
We're delivering consistent top line performance in line with our 2020 Vision and long-term growth targets despite an increasingly unpredictable global economy.
Our business realized solid top line results this past quarter growing worldwide volume by 4% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
Our second quarter comparable currency neutral net revenue was up 7% in the quarter driven by solid price mix of 3%.
Year-to-date comparable currency neutral net revenue was also up 7% and our comparable currency neutral operating income also grew 7% in the quarter raising our year-to-date operating income growth to 6%.
We once again led industry growth extending our volume and value share gains globally in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category where our portfolio is now up 3% year-to-date.
This was driven by the global growth of brand Coca-Cola which is also up a healthy 3% year-to-date.
We gained global share in the still beverages category where our portfolio grew a solid 9% in both the quarter as well as year-to-date.
Importantly we delivered these results while further enhancing the well-being of the communities and customers we proudly serve and the consumers whose lives we touch each and every day.
During today's call as we discuss our performance I'll also share a few of the meaningful ways we are serving our communities across our geographic operations as these efforts are an integral part of realizing and sustaining our 2020 Vision.
We recognize that consumers across the globe continue to feel the effects and impacts of prolonged uncertainty in Europe the further cooling of the economy in China and a protracted recovery here in the United States.
Despite this our consistent quality performance results as well as our systems commitment to invest in the business for long-term growth give us confidence that we have the right strategies and the right plans in place to deliver full year 2012 results that meet our long-term growth targets for in times like these there is no better industry to be in than the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry.
We're proud to be part of a strong and growing industry that passionately serves millions of outlets and refreshes billions of consumers every single day.
Now let us review our performance results across our global markets in more detail beginning with our flagship market North America where this past quarter our business delivered its ninth consecutive quarter of growth up 1% for both the quarter as well as year-to-date.
Importantly we achieved this growth in North America while sustaining a positive 3% price mix for our total beverage business.
And in the process we once again captured value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages this quarter consistent with our focus on driving profitable growth in North America.
This growth was led by our still beverage portfolio which was up 8% this quarter gaining both volume and value share across nearly all of the categories in which we compete.
In sports drinks POWERADE once again grew double-digits this quarter while also capturing volume and value share.
This marks the third consecutive quarter in which POWERADE has led the North America sports drink category in absolute unit case volume growth.
Our glacéau brands up 5% this quarter also captured share driven by the further momentum of vitaminwater zero up high single-digits as well as by another quarter of double-digit growth for smartwater.
In addition smartwater began using PlantBottle packaging this past May as we further leverage this proprietary innovative and sustainable packaging that we launched nationally with our DASANI water brand last year.
Speaking of DASANI this brand provided yet another quarter of double-digit growth in North America delivering both volume and value share gains.
The acceleration of our tea portfolio in North America also continued this quarter up double-digits while gaining both volume and value share.
This result was led by Gold Peak which has now grown double-digits for 21 consecutive quarters.
Finally our juice and juice drink portfolio in North America was up 3% led by high single-digit growth for our Simply brands as well as mid-single-digit growth for our Minute Maid brands.
These results solidify our share leadership in the high-value 100% chilled orange juice segment.
Our sparkling beverages in North America was down 2% in our second quarter in line with the broader sparkling beverage industry's results during the same April to June time frame.
Importantly our sparkling beverage portfolio earned a positive 5% price mix this quarter in a rational pricing environment.
We also sustained our momentum behind both Coke Zero and Fanta with both these brands up mid-single-digits this quarter.
We're particularly pleased to see this continued solid growth for Coke Zero in North America considering that this brand's baseline was built off of 5 consecutive years of double-digit growth.
This winning track record reflects our commitment to sustainable innovation that delivers year-over-year growth.
And Coca-Cola's brand equity scores keep improving with Coca-Cola's favorite brand score among the total U.S.
population up when compared to a year ago.
This favorite brand score for Coca-Cola is now nearly 2x greater than the score of its primary competitor.
Finally our Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispenser which recently won the Gold Innovation Award from the National Automatic Merchandising Association is now available in more than 4 400 outlets across North America.
One of the many ways we've consistently served our communities in North America is through our investments in initiatives that promote physical activity and well-being.
A good example is how we are encouraging physical activity through our Sprite Spark Parks Project.
Launched in 2011 this project has supported the construction and refurbishment of more than 150 neighborhood parks athletic fields and basketball courts.
We're also partnering with the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils and the American College of Sports Medicine to build gyms in schools across the country.
Last month we announced that we will dedicate $5 million to provide 100 communities with new fitness centers for schools.
While our commitment to our communities both in North America as well as across the globe goes well beyond just physical activity programs we will always encourage our consumers to be healthy and active and provide them with opportunities to do so.
This is at the heart of our brand values.
In summary we have every reason to remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for this market which has the best demographics of the developed world and remains an unparalleled center of innovation and entrepreneurial activity.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group which grew 8% in both the quarter and year-to-date including 6% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola.
Additionally our Pacific Group captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages this quarter.
During our last earnings call we shared our expectations that our volume growth in China might moderate to some extent as our business would not be immune to China's cooling economy.
In fact China's GDP growth rate is at a 3-year low yet still above 7%.
As anticipated the broader beverage industry in China has felt the impact of this economic slowdown.
Despite this our business in China delivered 7% growth in the second quarter while cycling a strong 21% growth from last year.
Year-to-date growth in China was a solid 8% cycling 17% from last year.
The rightsized packaging efforts we put in place in China last year keep generating consistent strong incremental transactions in line with our expectations.
As such both sparkling beverage and total beverage transactions were up double-digits for both the quarter as well as year-to-date in China.
And importantly we once again captured both volume and value share in the sparkling category -- beverage category in China this past quarter.
We're very excited about our opportunities in this region.
Our clear focus on building our business for sustainable growth provides us with confidence that China will continue to serve as a double-digit growth market over the long term.
Our business in Japan delivered yet another quarter of strong growth with volume up 4% bringing our year-to-date growth in this important critical market to up to 4% as well on a year-to-date basis.
Importantly these results in Japan were broad-based with growth seen across all channels including convenience stores as well as vending.
And our Japan business gained both volume and value share in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage category this quarter.
So looking ahead we expect our third quarter volume results in Japan to moderate below our 4% year-to-date trend as we enter what is forecasted to be a cooler summer season when compared to last summer's historically record hot temperatures.
Having said that we remain confident that our system in Japan is well aligned and in a strong position to deliver full year low single-digit growth in 2012.
I also want to update our results in Thailand.
Our business in this market sustained its solid momentum growing over 20% for both the quarter and year-to-date.
In the process we gained volume and value share in Thailand across nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as in both sparkling and still beverage categories.
We are excited about the future growth opportunities in Thailand and we'll keep investing for the future in this vibrant market.
As for the Philippines we just celebrated the 100th anniversary of our entry into this market.
Importantly we again captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages in the Philippines and have grown our volume mid-single-digits for both the quarter as well as year-to-date.
We launched our 5 BY 20 program in the Philippines almost exactly 1 year ago.
As background this program is our global initiative to enable the economic empowerment of 5 million women entrepreneurs by 2012 -- 2020.
In the Philippines we are working with local partners to implement a pilot business skills training program and we are now in the process of scaling up this program nationwide to economically empower 100 000 women store owners and operators by 2020.
We believe there is no better investment we can make to spur economic growth and foster sustainable development.
Moving now to Latin America.
Our volume grew 3% for the quarter and is up 4% year-to-date.
This growth was once again led by brand Coca-Cola up 3% year-to-date.
In the process we once again captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in Latin America as well as share gains in both sparkling and still beverages.
In Mexico our volume growth in the quarter was up 1% as we cycled a very strong 10% growth from previous year.
This brings our year-to-date volume growth in Mexico to 2% while cycling 12% from last year.
Importantly we once again outperformed the beverage industry in Mexico capturing nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share as well as in sparkling and still beverages.
In Brazil our business continued to deliver solid results with volume growth up 6% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
And our business in Brazil is also driving industry growth gaining both volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages as well as again in sparkling and still beverages.
Looking ahead we expect our 2012 growth results in Brazil to hold steady at low to single -- low to mid-single-digits especially in light of recent revisions to the Brazilian economy's GDP forecast for the remainder of this year.
Our Eurasia &amp; Africa business extended its momentum growing a strong 12% in the quarter and 11% year-to-date including solid 11% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola.
This group's overall performance was once again led by India which grew a strong 20% for both the quarter and year-to-date delivering balanced and consistent growth across all beverage categories.
Sparkling beverage growth in India was led by brand Coca-Cola up 35% in the quarter and 32% year-to-date.
In still beverages in India our Maaza juice brand was up over 30% in both quarter and year-to-date.
And importantly our business in India captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages and also in both sparkling and still beverages.
I was recently in India where we announced our systems plan to increase investments in India by $3 billion bringing total system investments to $5 billion between now and 2020.
These investments will drive innovation and enable our efforts to deliver a portfolio that enhances the consumer experience and builds brand loyalty to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Russia was up 9% this quarter raising our year-to-date growth to 7%.
The steady acceleration of our business in Russia was once again led by the strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola which grew 23% in the quarter and is now up 22% year-to-date.
Similarly strong results were also observed across our broader sparkling portfolio as Fanta and Sprite both registered double-digit growth this past quarter in Russia.
And our Dobriy juice brand delivered 12% growth in the quarter bringing this brand's year-to-date results to double digits.
As a result our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share.
We also saw robust growth across the rest of Eurasia &amp; Africa region this quarter including double-digit growth in South Africa and the Middle East as well as North Africa region.
Lastly we finalized our acquisition of approximately half the equity of Aujan Industries this past quarter.
As a reminder Aujan holds the #1 position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East.
Between our solid performance the strength of our bottling partners and our new partnership with Aujan it is easy to see why we are so excited about the future of our business in this dynamic part of the world.
Moving now to Europe where our volume was down 4% for the quarter cycling strong 5% growth from last year.
As a result our business in Europe is now down 2% on a year-to-date basis cycling 3% growth from prior year.
This past quarter Europe was challenged by both historically unseasonable inclement weather as well as ongoing macro uncertainties.
Despite this our business in Europe held share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as sparkling beverages while capturing both volume and value share in still beverages.
Germany remains the bright spot in this region up 1% for the quarter and 2% on a year-to-date basis.
This marks Germany's sixth consecutive quarter of positive growth.
Importantly we once again captured volume and value share in ready-to-drink beverages.
This serves as a solid evidence that we have the right brands the right strategies and the right capabilities in place to deliver long-term sustainable growth in this critically important market.
We recently concluded our highly successful activation of the UEFA Euro 2012 football tournament.
In recent consumer surveys Coca-Cola was overwhelmingly recognized as the tournament's primary brand sponsor with this brand awareness translating into volume and value share gains in the tournament's host nations.
We're also very excited about the special opportunity to grow the value of our brands even further through our investment in the 2012 London Summer Olympics.
From a brand standpoint we shared our last quarter -- we shared last quarter how our Olympics Move to the Beat program has been launched globally and activated in over 100 markets.
Additionally to brand Coca-Cola we're leveraging this unique platform to activate and fully integrate a global Olympic POWERADE program in more than 35 markets across -- all across the world.
This will be POWERADE's first global activation program since its launch 20 years ago at the 1992 Barcelona Olympic Games.
And in keeping with our LIVE POSITIVELY culture we've placed our commitment to sustainable communities at the heart of our Olympic activation efforts.
This year we're offering the widest range of drinks and sizes ever to be made available at the Olympic Games and we have pledged that all bottles collected at the Olympic Games venues will be recycled and back on shelves within a short 6 weeks.
We have also updated the labels for our Coca-Cola packages to present consumers with a clear recycling call to action.
And we've also created more than 120 permanent Coca-Cola Recycle Zones all across Great Britain.
Before closing let me say how pleased we are with this past quarter when Coca-Cola was recognized as the #1 brand by CoreBrand based on a survey tracking the corporate brands of 1 000 companies across 54 industries.
This is the 11th straight year we have received this honor is especially gratifying since CoreBrand's rankings are based on a poll of 10 000 business professionals with rankings based on brand familiarity reputation perception of management as well as investment potential.
While all of us at The Coca-Cola Company are proud of our performance year-to-date we believe that our best days are still ahead.
Our 2020 Vision provides our system with a clear road map for growth.
Our consistent quality volume value and profit results demonstrate that our global bottling system is very well-aligned and poised for execution.
As we look ahead for the balance of this year we understand that consumers still face an unpredictable environment.
Having said that we remain confident that we have the well-loved brands vision and road map with our global bottling partners to effectively navigate today's environment.
We will continue to passionately refresh a thirsty world.
We will do so by offering a growing choice of quality beverages that refresh and hydrate our consumers while bringing them simple moments of happiness.
We will do so by sustaining our commitments to communities and to the many well-being initiatives we support.
And we will do so by ensuring that we always place our highest priority on creating sustainable value for our consumers for our customers and for our shareholders.
With that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We delivered solid results this quarter demonstrating once again that despite an unpredictable environment our global system is well positioned to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision.
Let me start with our comparable earnings per share which came in at $1.22 this quarter up 4% versus the prior year.
This raises our year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 4% as well.
Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up 7% this quarter increasing our year-to-date comparable currency neutral operating income to 6%.
On a comparable basis the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 5% headwind.
Comparable currency neutral net revenues grew 7% this quarter including a 3% increase in concentrate sales and a 3% positive price mix.
The currency impact from this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 4% headwind.
On a year-to-date basis our comparable currency neutral net revenue growth held steady at 7%.
We also maintained our consolidated price mix at a positive 3% this quarter.
In fact we realized positive price mix across every one of our geographic operating groups this quarter.
Looking ahead we will cycle higher price mix comparisons during the back half of 2012 which will lead to lower consolidated price mix results in the third and fourth quarters.
Having said that we continue to expect our full year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2% in line with our long-term target range.
Our gross margins softened a little further this past quarter particularly in late May and June.
This sequential trend is being driven by both ongoing currency headwinds as well as by changing -- changes in channel and package mix across markets as today's economic conditions are leading consumers to temporarily shift their channel and package preferences.
As we look ahead we anticipate that these currency and mix shift headwinds will continue through 2012.
As such we now expect our full year 2012 comparable gross margin to come in below our second quarter gross margin with this headwind primarily observed in the third quarter of 2012.
Despite this we remain confident in our ability to deliver full year comparable currency neutral operating income growth in line with our long-term growth targets.
Our comparable currency neutral SG&amp;A expenses were up 5% in both the quarter and year-to-date.
These results include an overall increase in year-to-date direct marketing expenses as we sustain our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands.
Our operating expense leverage once again came in positive this quarter bringing our year-to-date operating expense leverage up to 1 point in line with our previously stated outlook.
We now expect our third quarter operating expense leverage to range between a negative 3 and negative 5 points.
However this pressure on operating expense leverage is expected to reverse in the fourth quarter especially as we benefit from having 2 additional selling days in the fourth quarter and enabling us to achieve slightly positive operating expense leverage on a full year basis.
Our net interest came in even in the second quarter exactly in line with the outlook we provided in our last earnings call.
This held our year-to-date net interest income at $27 million.
We now expect our net interest to come in as a slight expense in the back half of the year primarily due to expected lower rates in some of our international locations as well as ongoing currency headwinds.
As a result we are now updating our full year net interest income outlook to $10 million to $20 million with the net interest expense we sense -- that we see in the second half of 2012 evenly spread between the third and fourth quarter.
Our underlying effective tax rate now stands at 24% which is an improvement over the 24.8% rate we communicated during our last earnings call.
And we expect to be able to carry this 24% tax rate through the remainder of this year and into next year.
And our cash flow from operations increased a very strong 15% year-to-date.
Our year-to-date net share repurchases total $1.6 billion.
This places us well on track to achieve the $2.5-billion to $3-billion range for full year 2012 that we communicated at the outset of this year.
With regard to commodities in our last call we said we expected the full year 2012 incremental impact of our big 4 commodity cost on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million.
We also said that if current trends held we could see this outlook slowly improve.
Today I can confirm based on our latest forecast we now expect our full year incremental cost on commodities to come in closer to $300 million.
As for currencies we previously provided an outlook that they would have a mid-single-digit negative impact on our full year operating income.
Today we are still seeing the dollar strengthen against other currencies including many of those that we do not traditionally hedge that is not effect -- because it's not effective to do so due to the high cost associated with these hedges.
As such and based on our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we expect currencies to have an 8% to 9% negative impact on operating income in the third quarter.
In addition we now expect the full year impact of currencies on our operating income to be a headwind at the high end of the previously communicated mid-single-digit range.
And there's one housekeeping item to keep in mind as you update your models.
Our shareowners recently approved a 2-for-1 stock split which will double the number of outstanding shares in August.
In closing as we reach this halfway point of 2012 we find ourselves navigating through a challenging global economy.
The recovery in the United States remains moderate and consumer sentiment is still challenged.
Consumers in Europe are feeling the effects of that region's prolonged macroeconomic uncertainty.
And the economy in China while still growing continues to demonstrate signs of cooling.
But it's important to put today's challenges and our business results in the proper perspective for while consumers may be feeling some pressure in these markets we continue to execute with excellence.
We are earning price and gaining value share in North America while sequentially improving profitability.
We're holding our share in Europe while investing in our brands for long-term growth.
And we're delivering double-digit transactions growth in China as we solidify our leadership across multiple categories in this growing market.
The bottom line is that we are successfully managing our business for the long-term while delivering consistent and solid top line and bottom line results.
Our system is healthy and is financially strong as ever generating solid cash flow and investing to support our world-class portfolio of brands.
We are also investing across the globe to support the long-term health and well-being of our communities customers and consumers.
And importantly we continue to reward our shareowners prudently managing our investments to deliver quality results while also paying a healthy dividend.
So as we look ahead to the rest of 2012 and a protracted and unpredictable economic recovery we are encouraged by our consistent results as well as by our faith in our 2020 Vision and remain confident in our ability to deliver full year volume revenue and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.
Operator we're now ready for the questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Bill Pecoriello Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Muhtar considering the tough global macroeconomic backdrop your Q2 results were certainly impressive.
But you've been talking about on the call today some of the incremental global macro headwinds we're seeing decelerating further in certain markets so what's giving you the confidence that The Coca-Cola Company can continue this strong performance during the second half of the year? And what specific actions is the company taking to offset the incremental headwinds? You mentioned some of the packaging shifting.
And maybe is there any reallocation of market spending et cetera? I think I'd just say -- start by saying that firstly we're very fortunate that our business has been doing well in recent years.
I think operating in this environment has become the norm for us.
It's not a passing feature now operating in this very volatile and unpredictable environment.
And I think that we're meeting the long-term growth targets set out for our 2020 Vision even in difficult economic circumstances.
And I think part of our success has been because there's been a healthy appetite for investment across our global bottling system in this environment and stronger than it's been for a long time.
Our 2020 Vision is a system vision.
It's focused on long-term growth collectively with our partners -- bottling partners.
And when you look back at 2010 2011 the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry grew by about $65 billion in total retail dollar value.
And we're pleased to say that our system represented nearly 40% of that total industry growth well above our fair share underscoring that vision and that collective effort and that investment is working.
That said we're naturally keenly aware of how turbulent the economic landscape is today and will continue to be this year.
And we've said many times before during the past few years that we may hit a bump in the road given the continued volatility in the macro environment but that we're focused on meeting our long-term growth targets on realizing -- and realizing our 2020 Vision.
And so far I think you can say that quarter-after-quarter we've proven that.
All of us at Coca-Cola the entire system remain constructively discontent.
We know that we can always do better.
And I think you've got to realize we've got a wonderful portfolio of geographic regions.
And so some of them may -- not all of them will not ever do well all the time.
But just like this past quarter where we had very unseasonable weather in Europe we had tremendous again negative consumer sentiment brewing in Europe we still have delivered our results and we will continue to do so.
And then also quarter-after-quarter we're gaining share and quarter-after-quarter our business our top brands have been improving.
Brand health metrics I keep on saying that's an important metric to look at.
And when you look at the past sort of quarters back to 2011 versus today we've again delivered very strong increments of improvement in our Coke Fanta Sprite brand scores as well as weekly-plus drinkers.
And as you go around the world I think certainly there is a sentiment that this is going to be a prolonged crisis that the high levels of unemployment are here to stay both in Europe as well as in the United States and also that there's a little somewhat cooling off of economies in Asia particularly China.
But in this environment I don't believe there's a better business and there is a better system to continue to crack the calculus for growth.
When you look at BRICS Brazil Russia India and China and the Sub-Saharan Africa referred to as the BRICS nations we grew in Q2 a combined plus 8%.
And so it's worth noting that those markets represent nearly 400 million cases of incremental growth last year.
And so we continue to generate significant growth in those emerging markets and we continue to create growth in developed markets like Japan what you saw in this past quarter as well as the United States ninth consecutive quarter of growth in the United States.
And when we first talked about that again in the midst of economic turmoil back 2.5 years ago very few people thought that we could achieve that.
So that's why I have confidence Bill that we believe that we can continue to meet our long-term growth targets despite a very volatile unpredictable and prolonged economic recovery.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Gary I want to talk a little bit about the operating leverage guidance going forward particularly for the third quarter.
You talked a little bit about the gross margin impact.
In order to get to that type of negative deleveraging we'd probably have to see a little higher level of SG&amp;A spending.
So can you talk a little bit about that? And then also can you talk about some of the improvement that you've started to show in North America in terms of operating profit growth there? With North America sort of -- I guess the question is are you expecting North America to also get better from here? Because if it does that also makes the operating leverage in Q3 seem a little bit more surprising.
A very good question.
And let me -- I'm going to have to take it in pieces and parts if I could and see if we can put that all that together and come up with an answer on it.
But let's start at gross margin first because I think that's the most important place to start.
Even on gross margin I think you've got to split it into a couple of pieces split the company look at BIG and international operations and then North America.
And on BIG and international a lot of the gross margin pressure there is really FX currency headwinds.
And it's coming through in cost of sales and there's an impact on revenue.
And so that is causing some margin pressure.
And the highest impact of exchange rates -- highest headwind impact of exchange rates on us this year will be in the third quarter.
And then it starts moderating again on what we're cycling.
So that's the first thing.
The second thing while we're on international on margins particularly is our expectation as we just said is that in Japan we think growth is going to moderate slightly from the very strong 4% that we've seen year-to-date in Japan.
They're going to still have a very good year.
But I think that will moderate and that will put -- that will be some margin compression on the total company.
Then if you go to North America I think I'd say we've been very pleased.
We've seen sequential improvement in North America from -- first quarter operating income was down 9 10-ish.
This quarter it's even.
And I think we'll continue to see sequential improvement albeit kind of slow improvement and I'll go into why in North America.
So in North America I think what we're seeing and what we saw happen actually in the United States is in about mid-May we started seeing consumer shifts and the consumer started changing behavior we think temporarily.
But I think it's just you pick up the newspaper you turn on the television and you see economic -- huge economic issues all over the world whether it's no job creation in the U.S.
to all of the issues in Europe China slowing somewhat.
And what we then saw was the consumer change go more toward future consumption packages and channels versus immediate consumption.
And one of the things that's a little surprising -- and I think we'll have to see how this goes and I think it's for sure a temporary shift.
But as the price of gasoline came down kind of in that May-June time period normally what you would see particularly in convenience retail is your immediate consumption should go up and it did not.
So that I think is probably going to continue somewhat through the third quarter.
Again some margin pressure.
So that's what's leading us to that gross margin and that's the primary part of it.
We've got -- and then we were cycling some things last year relative to SG&amp;A.
So I think there will be some increase in SG&amp;A particularly in the third quarter and that kind of cycles out in the fourth.
So you put all that together that's kind of where we get to on the negative 3 to 5 points of leverage in third quarter coming back in the fourth quarter to positive -- slightly positive and kind of the gross margin as well.
That was a long answer but I think it's complicated because there are a lot of different parts to it.
And also John just one other point on what Gary mentioned in terms of the immediate consumption business.
I think if you take our sort of top 22 countries in the world in Q1 we had probably more than 15 of them realize very positive IC growth.
In Q2 we had about 11 countries out of our sort of top 22 markets that had IC growth.
And the primary reason for that was the very very very poor summer -- the start to the very poor summer in Europe.
And so I think that is also an important factor that has to be kept in mind.
It was a very unseasonable situation in Europe and hopefully it will reverse itself in the coming months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Gary so is it safe to say that the leverage piece is transactional? So you're looking at transactional on the leverage piece and then the translational piece is separate.
Is that kind of how we look at at least internationally? Is that what you're telling us from an FX standpoint? Say it in a different way to make sure I understand your question.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess in terms of there's transactional FX impacts as opposed to translational FX impacts so is it the raw material increase in dollars in the local currencies that's driving the negative leverage from a BIG standpoint? Is that...
Yes yes.
So you've got translational impact on revenue but then you've got transactional impact on cost of goods as well.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on John's question on operating leverage just a couple of points of clarification.
First on the commodity cost increase expectation for the year of $300 million how much has actually happened so far year-to-date? This is Gary.
I would say probably about half of it.
I think it's going to be pretty well sequential through the year.
And a lot of it we've already locked in and hedged.
So it's pretty well probably about half maybe slightly less than half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the effect on gross margins of your outlook for price mix having less of a contribution in the first half of the year versus the second half I just want to make sure it was clear that what you're -- this is just simply a phasing of the way your pricing -- your planned pricing rolled through the year.
It's not an expectation or a change in plan in terms of being more promotional or promoting back at all for the second half.
I was just trying to...
Yes.
No Bryan it's exactly what you said.
That's exactly right.
It's what our normal pricing had been what we're cycling just as we phase through the year.
We are -- have not engaged in anything relative to change into more promotional or anything.
It's normal pricing and normal cycling.
In fact if anything I would tell you that the pricing environment has stayed -- particularly in the U.S.
has stayed very rational.
And some of our competitors internationally are doing a lot of promotional pricing.
But that's kind of normal.
What you're seeing is exactly what we plan to do the whole year have not deviated at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last piece would just be in terms of understanding the different pieces on geographic mix.
Europe is a high-margin market for you.
And it sounds like given the performance and just the outlook in terms of the macro that you're expecting less of a contribution from Europe than you normally would expect.
And now we're talking about profit contribution.
So a is that the right way to think about it? And b or second is there also anything that you're doing specifically in Europe to support profits while you've still got -- or to boost profitability while you've got kind of a soft patch from a demand perspective? Yes.
You're right on Europe.
It is a high-margin high-profitability business for us.
And we're continuing to hold share.
We are seeing some weakness there obviously down 4% in the quarter.
I think it's important to recognize that weather is probably as much to do with what we saw in the second quarter as the economic macros probably 50-50 on all of Europe and probably even more so for Northwest Europe.
Britain had the wettest summer so far that it's had in over the last 100 years.
So the weather's been unbelievably bad.
If it turns -- and I don't want to use weather as an excuse.
If it turns things will be better.
We're not anticipating that but hopefully that will be somewhat better.
And we are cycling a pretty good summer from last year -- a very good summer from last year as well.
I think Bryan in Europe we've got very very strong programs in place.
We've just finished one of the most successful euro activations.
We have just embarking upon the Olympics programs which globally are going to be activated in over 100 markets.
We've never had that happen before.
We've reached -- the greenest ever Olympics was -- we believe that our business is very strong in Europe.
And as Gary said I think there has been an anomaly in the weather.
But having said that if you look at the past -- in the last 2 years Europe has really performed better than expectations given how bad the consumer sentiment was deteriorating in Europe.
And this should not be taken as a kind of a fall off the cliff.
But certainly Europe is continuing -- going to continue to be challenging as an environment.
But our business gets essentially stronger in Europe because our brands are stronger.
We're investing with our bottlers both CCE our Iberian bottlers as well as Coca-Cola Hellenic.
So I do believe that probably there was some factors one-off factors that created the current result as opposed to it being taken as a given for the rest.
But I do also believe that I think you need to understand that we're in for a very protracted recovery in Europe.
Bryan I'd add one thing.
If you go back to our conference call in the first quarter if you go back to the transcript you asked a question on that call.
And the last -- I think one of the last things I said to you in answering your question was "Remember we are managing this business as a marathon and not a sprint." And that's exactly what you're hearing us say today.
We're in a marathon.
We're in this to win.
We are gaining and furthering the distance between ourselves and our competitors every quarter.
We're going to continue to do that.
And we feel very good that we've got the right plans in place to do it.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on China.
You talked about the volume in China slowing due to the economic slowdown.
So I was hoping you could provide a little more color on some of the symptoms of a soft landing you're seeing in your business by some of your key categories and then possibly by area or region.
And then I also would be curious to hear how your business in China performed in the quarter compared to what your expectations were early on this quarter.
I think during our last earnings call again I think we shared our expectation that our volume growth in China might moderate to some extent as a the business is not going to be totally immune to the cooling particularly along the coastal areas of China.
And I think as anticipated the broader beverage industry in China has also felt the impact of that slowdown in the first half of 2012.
But also -- and so it was not -- in terms of expectations it's probably where we expected the business to land in terms of how we saw the marketplace developing.
I think year-to-date growth in China being a solid 8% cycling plus 17% from prior year I believe we're content.
But certainly we'll always try to achieve double-digit growth.
But importantly I think the rightsizing packaging efforts that we put into place in China last year continued to generate consistent incremental transactions in line with our expectations.
In fact a little bit ahead of our expectations.
And as such total beverage transactions -- and you've heard us talk about transactions being really a really very good metric for the health of the business -- were up double-digits for both the quarter up about 12% and also on a year-to-date basis up about 14%.
So just want to stress that a really important point.
And again we captured both volume and value share significantly in the sparkling beverage category in China in this past quarter.
And our brands particularly in the sparkling category have been doing very well.
And transactions as I say which is a great health of the business have been progressing well.
In terms of regions I think the northern regions and the regions -- more inland regions are doing a little better than the coastal regions in China.
And I think we'll continue to see that throughout the year as some consumers have moved back into the central and inland regions of China given some of the slowing down of the export businesses along the coast.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-on.
Are you seeing any signs of slowdown in any other parts of Asia? Is this spreading in any way? We are not.
I would say Vietnam Southeast Asia Philippines is actually doing better.
We talked about Philippines having a kind of coming off the cliff a little bit after the elections and after tremendous amounts of sort of monetary easing preelections.
I think it's coming back to a good sort of balance now.
And then in terms of Indonesia I think obviously Australia some of Australia's exports to China are slowing down.
But actually we've had a pretty good quarter in Australia.
And I don't -- we don't really see -- it's actually a pretty strong balanced growth across the region.
I would phrase it that way Bonnie.
Our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So maybe going back to the comment earlier about marathon versus sprint sort of applying that again to North America and thinking about it from a long-term perspective.
And obviously this quarter you had pricing up 5% volume down 2%.
In share it sounds like in sparkling roughly flat.
Is that kind of a comfortable algorithm a comfortable elasticity that you'd be looking for going forward longer-term sort of maybe moderating from price but kind of in that range of elasticity? Or does some of the macro challenges you're seeing now and maybe the persistence of those challenges make you think a little bit differently about that? And I guess if you could answer that in the [indiscernible] of your margins the margin answer you gave about North America going forward that would be helpful.
Yes Ali.
First let me just take sort of what we would term as sort of a normal outlook.
I said it before.
I think look in terms of moderate growth in volume in North America and we have -- and also certain amount of positive price mix given the strength of our brands I think and also our new occasion channel-based packaging architecture that we've actually recreated with smaller packages with the mini cans with the 14 ounces and with the advent also of a much wider Freestyle distribution of the Freestyle dispensing units I think probably is the right way to think about.
Given that it's going to be a protracted recovery that's the way we would think about it.
Moderate volume 1% to 2% and then also some positive price mix on top of that.
And that's how we would see the business progressing.
In terms of share I think it's important to reflect on the fact that over the last 3 -- 2 3 years we've been gaining market share consistently quarter-after-quarter in the United States.
If you look at consecutively in terms of value share since the beginning of 2010 every quarter we've gained share if you look at the numbers in value share every quarter adding on top of the quarter prior.
So we've been coming through historically a very strong share gain environment.
And I think certainly we see the pricing environment to be logical and one that is rational and that's very important.
And I think we just have to ensure that we keep the right balance of both marketing and pricing and also improvements in customer service with Coca-Cola Refreshments that are taking -- that are improving every quarter.
As we move into the year I think you should also see us continuing that kind of trend in the United States going forward.
And Gary if you want to talk about the margins? A little bit on the margin.
A couple of things.
So North America total volume was plus 1 on 3 points of price mix -- positive price mix.
Sparkling was minus 2 on 5 points of positive price mix.
And I think Ali your question is is that kind of the elasticities and kind of the relationship we would expect to see going forward? And I'd tell you a couple of things.
One in a very rational pricing environment so I think you have to underline that and it is the historical elasticity models would have said that you would have seen a lot greater volume decline greater than 2% if you took 5% of pricing.
So I think that's a very good thing obviously.
Going forward in a more normalized market where you're not seeing the huge commodity spikes that we've seen over the last 2 years I think a much healthier environment we would want to see sparkling growing kind of the low 1 or 2 percentage points kind of -- and more moderate pricing on top of that to still get a 3% or 4% or something revenue growth but do it in a more balanced fashion with -- between volume and price but...
And just one thing to add to that Ali also.
I think it's important to remember that 2011 was probably a special year where we've had to face tremendous increases and changes in commodity costs like we hadn't faced before.
I mean that's in the United States to the tune of about $550 million.
And although it hasn't continued thank goodness at the same rate we also are facing some commodity increases of course this year too not anywhere close to what it was.
So have to remember what kind of pricing we had to take to ensure that our business could continue to invest for sustainable future growth in the United States coming off of 2011.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's great.
And I hope the better-than-expected elasticity kind of boldens a little bit more pricing which is good.
But -- so just if I could squeeze in a housekeeping perhaps question.
It may or may not be a housekeeping I guess.
But on the balance sheet -- and Gary this may be for you.
There's always a lot of moving parts and we kind of try to keep track of it.
But this quarter was another one of kind of large shifts from cash to short-term investments large increase in marketable securities.
What exactly are you doing? And what's the impact to the P&amp;L if any? Yes.
Most of it does not have much impact to the P&amp;L at all.
What you're seeing us do is as we continue to build cash most of that cash or a large part of that cash is offshore.
We are moving into separately managed accounts and so reducing exposure to banks particularly so that we are diversifying risk.
And then we're also investing some of that -- rather than in a savings account if you will we're putting some of it into government bonds and some -- and AAA-rated other investments all short-term.
But it's basically just ensuring that we are diversifying against any concentrations of risk.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley of Buckingham Research Group.
My question is about volume in the second half.
You've already indicated that price mix should be slowing.
Can you give us some indication of what volume should look like and particularly Brazil the U.S.
and China versus what we've seen in the second quarter? Yes.
I mean I think you'll appreciate that we can't give forecasts.
But I think you've heard us say that we feel confident despite the volatility that we would be looking at reiterating our long-term targets of 3% to 4% volume growth and again that we manage a great portfolio of 206 markets.
And we believe that based on our -- both marketing programs as well as our strength of our brands the strength of our system that we would be able to reiterate our long-term growth target in terms of volume of 3% to 4% for not just the remaining part of the year but going into the future.
Well we've had some macro slowdown occur during the course of the second quarter in China and Brazil.
And we've seen a little slowdown in your numbers.
And then just is that going to continue? Or are we going to sort of stay at these second quarter levels? I can't comment on that.
But look you've seen us in the past -- if you take the last 3 or 4 years where we've been operating in this economic environment you've seen us have quarters of 3% or even less or 5% or 6%.
And so when less than 3 or 4 things go bad then you'll see us higher volumes.
When some more things all combine in a certain time frame you may see less.
But over a period of time -- longer period of time we feel that the 3% to 4% is a good number to look at in terms of -- which is our long-term growth targets.
We've never changed them and we think -- and generating -- for a business our size generating a 7% revenue growth comp currency neutral revenue growth across the world that's in my book continuing to crack the calculus for growth.
And then could I ask a different question which follows up with some that have been asked before? And this is the operating profit performance in North America.
I think you've indicated that it will continue to get better sequentially in North America.
And yet you've highlighted a sort of unfavorable mix in terms of channel and I think product as well and price mix here.
So why do we have sequential improvement in operating profits here in North America coming? Gary do you want to...
Yes yes.
I'll take that one.
I think what -- you've been seeing us deliver sequential improvements.
I don't know that the third quarter versus the second quarter in North America -- probably it won't be the same kind of sequential improvement you saw from minus 9 to 0.
But I think you'll see some improvement in the third quarter although there are some macro and consumer issues in the United States just because of the condition of this economy and all.
And then you will see -- I would expect to see a fairly significant improvement then in the fourth quarter particularly as you has that [ph] -- as an operating business a finished products business has significant leverage that will come through in the fourth quarter particularly with the extra days and the 2 extra days in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter is clear.
I'm just trying to figure out why we get improvement in the third quarter versus the second.
Just because we continue to work on the business.
But I'm not saying it's going to be significant improvement.
It's just there should be -- our expectation is there should be a little improvement in the third quarter.
Look we have said that in the United States we started -- when we started the business that we pointed out that there's going to be sequential improvement.
It's also partly on how the commodities are priced into our business and also how marketing spend operates -- the marketing spend curve operates in our business and a number of other things.
So we do expect to see as we have seen in the second quarter which we pointed out in the first quarter we will continue to see sequential improvement as a result of some of those other things that I've also mentioned as well as the strength of our marketing programs going into the third quarter particularly related to the Olympics as well as many other local programs.
In the United States we've never had more customer partners pick up and align with us on the Olympic activation as in these Olympic Games.
One other thing I'll point out and it's kind of tactical but in timing in the last year most of or about half of the Fourth of July holiday was in the second quarter.
The impact was in the second quarter and then a little bit in the third quarter.
The way the calendar fell this year basically all or most of the Fourth of July holiday in North America will be in the third quarter which helps the third quarter.
And our final question today comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gary just a follow-up to some of the earlier questions.
If I take the puts and takes in terms of some of the changes to your guidance so you've got better commodities you've got better tax rate and then you've got a bit worse interest income and then worse FX.
So net-net my math sort of comes to kind of a wash in terms of some of those puts and takes.
Do you sort of get the same calculation just in terms of some of the puts and takes to those aspects of the changes that you've talked about? Yes.
If you look at tax so you've got -- kind of depending on where you were.
But if you take 0.8 points on tax that will give you $0.03 or $0.04 a share.
You've got probably down $0.01 or so relative to interest.
So commodities let's call it $50 million probably positive.
That's another $0.01 or so.
So those are starting to wash.
But then FX is going to be worse and particularly worse in the third quarter significantly worse in the third quarter.
And then we have previously said kind of mid-single-digits headwind.
I think my words were exactly the high end of our previously communicated mid-single-digits.
So kind of depending on where you were.
But the risk aversion that investors around the world have gone to has really driven the dollar particularly against the emerging market currencies because the others even on the euro were hedged for the year.
But it's primarily those emerging market currencies have really been driven hard -- hit hard just because of risk aversion.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I was just trying to understand how the gross margin impact in BIG and international from a transactional perspective that is captured in your FX guidance.
No no.
We do not include the impact of currency on cost of goods in the FX guidance.
So that's on top of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's on top okay.
And then just finally switch quickly on the U.S.
So the channel and the pack shift that you're seeing why do you think it's only a temporary shift? And sort of -- and a little bit more of a color just because if you look at the data I mean take-home channel has been declining at a faster pace.
You've had immediate consumption channel that's been growing.
Is that not enough to really offset what's going on within kind of the immediate consumption side the mix shift that you're seeing? And then if that's the case I'm just surprised that the categories like energy drink continues to really accelerate even into June.
So what are some of dynamics that you're seeing as it relates to some of the channel and product shift that you've talked about? And I guess why is that more of a temporary situation in your view? I think first -- this is Muhtar.
I think first you've got to take into account the pricing environment.
5% I mean that is a pricing environment that you won't see coming through all the time.
And therefore I think you need to put it into that perspective and therefore look at it in that regard.
And also as you know over time the pricing impact gets evened out and the consumers get back to a normalized sort of sequence.
And so I think you will be seeing some of that happen in the United States.
That's one reason.
The second reason is the strength of our programs.
The third reason is what Gary mentioned in terms of holiday season falling into the quarter as opposed to not in the quarter et cetera et cetera.
So there's a lot of number of reasons why we're talking about it being not a permanent feature but a feature that will wash out through time.
That's why.
And so I hope that explains some of that.
Thank you Gary and Jackson.
And in closing I think I'd like to once again reiterate that we had a strong quarter and delivered quality midyear performance results.
Along with our partners bottling partners customer partners we're successfully navigating through an unpredictable external economic environment with a well-aligned system equipped for long-term sustainable growth.
Our 2020 Vision is working.
Our system remains resolutely focused on capturing the great opportunities we see ahead in all of the markets.
And as we partner with our global consumers customers communities we fundamentally believe we are building something lasting and something good while creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
As always we thank you for your interest and your investment in our company and thank you for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you so much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying that we're pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date performance.
We continue to deliver consistent quality results with our business growing worldwide volume by 4% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
Importantly we realized positive growth across all 5 of our geographic operating groups this quarter despite facing a still uncertain global economy.
Together with our global system we are operating from a position of real strength.
This past quarter we built on this advantage by once again leading industry growth and extending our volume and value share gains globally in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category where our portfolio is up 3% in both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
To put this in perspective our global sparkling business has generated nearly 450 million incremental cases year-to-date or the equivalent of adding another Russia to our global business.
And this growth has been consistently and reliably led by brand Coca-Cola which has grown every quarter over the past 3.5 years and is up a healthy 3% year-to-date.
We also gained global share in the still beverage category where our portfolio grew a solid 10% in the quarter and 9% year-to-date.
This quarter's still beverage results were well balanced with high single-digit growth in juice and juice drinks and sports drinks as well as double-digit growth in the water energy and ready-to-drink tea categories.
We are committed to striking a sound balance between the growth of our sparkling and still beverages.
We see this balance as the key to growing our total business while sustainably enhancing our margins and profits in line with our 2020 Vision.
We're also committed to providing consumers more choice in brands beverage types and calories or no calories all of which contributes new growth to our business.
The balance results that we have achieved across our portfolio demonstrate that we are delivering on this commitment.
As we've shared during our prior earnings calls this year we recognize that consumers across the globe are still feeling the effects of the prolonged uncertainty in Europe the ongoing cooling of the economy in China and a mild recovery in the United States.
We believe these global macroeconomic pressures will extend through 2012 and likely into 2013.
Despite this we are heartened by our ability to consistently deliver quality results as well as by our global systems commitment to invest in the business for the long-term growth.
We're also encouraged by how we have successfully and systematically adapted our business model these past few years to readily address the changing demands of the global marketplace.
First we better positioned our company to capture North America's long-term growth opportunity by acquiring CCE's North America business.
Our North America business has delivered volume growth every quarter since we executed this important transaction.
Second we broadened the relevance of our Bottling Investments Group evolving it further from its initial role of fixing challenging markets to a more significant role of spiriting our growth in select strategic markets such as India and China.
Constant renewal is in our DNA.
Now with solid fundamentals and real momentum in our business we are ready to take the next step towards our 2020 Vision.
As announced last quarter effective January 1 2013 we're organizing our company around 3 major operating businesses: Coca-Cola International consisting of our Europe Pacific and Eurasia &amp; Africa operations; Coca-Cola Americas consisting of our North America and Latin America operations; and Bottling Investments Group which will continue to oversee our company-owned bottling operations outside of North America.
By consolidating leadership of our global operations under 2 large and similar-sized geographic regions as well as in our Bottling Investments Group we will streamline reporting lines and intensify our focus on key markets.
This newly evolved structure will also enable us to better leverage synergies and more flexibly adjust our business strategies within those geographies in the future.
All of this will further strengthen our efforts to achieve long-term sustainable growth as we advance our momentum towards our 2020 Vision.
Now let's review our performance across our global markets in more detail beginning with our flagship market North America.
This past quarter our business in North America delivered its 10th consecutive quarter of growth up 2% for the quarter and year-to-date.
We also captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages while sustaining a positive 3% price mix for our total North America beverage business.
Our growth in North America was once again driven by our still beverage portfolio which was up 7% this quarter.
This is the 10th consecutive quarter that our North America still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained both volume and value share.
In sports drinks POWERADE grew volume 9% this quarter while also leading the North America sports drink category in absolute unit case volume growth for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Our juice and juice drinks portfolio in North America outpaced the category up 6% for the quarter while gaining both volume and value share.
Our positive result in this category was broad-based driven by strong growth in our juice drinks business volume and value share growth across our Minute Maid Light portfolio and further value share gains in the 100% chilled orange juice segment.
Our glacéau brands were up mid-single digits in North America once again this quarter gaining both volume and value share and led by the 18th straight quarter of double-digit growth for our premium smartwater brand.
The rest of our North America water business grew 4% in the quarter led by DASANI which maintained its premium price position and saw further gains across key brand equity measures driven by consumer awareness of our innovative PlantBottle packaging.
And our key portfolio in North America sustained its momentum up double digits while gaining both volume and value share.
This result was led by Gold Peak which has now grown strong double digits for 22 consecutive quarters.
Our sparkling beverages in North America were even in the third quarter a sequential improvement over our second quarter results and ahead of the broader sparkling beverage industry.
Importantly our sparkling beverage portfolio earned a positive 3% price mix in both the quarter and year-to-date in what continues to be a rational pricing environment.
Coca-Cola Zero growth accelerated up 9% this quarter.
We also sustained our momentum behind Fanta which was up mid-single digits for the third consecutive quarter.
We are encouraged by our consistent progress in North America and we remain positive about the long-term outlook for this very important market.
We're also leading the effort across communities in the United States to tackle obesity.
Last week we joined fellow members of the beverage industry to announce the first-of-its-kind partnership with the cities of Chicago and San Antonio encouraging the citizens of these cities to be more health aware and physically active.
We introduced a city-to-city wellness challenge as well as our new Calories Count Vending Program that will provide consumers with the choices and information they need to choose beverages that are right for themselves and for their families.
When it comes to non-communicable diseases such as obesity we know that there are no simple answers.
But we also know that a lack of physical activity is a primary contributor to obesity.
We also know that there is a lack of understanding of how many calories people consume in a day.
As such our company is committed to partnering with customers and cities to promote active healthy balanced lifestyles as well as making calorie information more transparent.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group which grew 3% in the third quarter and 6% year-to-date.
Our business in Japan was up 2% this quarter bringing our year-to-date volume growth in Japan to 3%.
Japan has now delivered volume growth in 8 of the last 9 quarters.
Our business in Japan continues to gain share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages this quarter and also grew both volume and value share in still beverages.
This positive result was driven by the sustained momentum of our Georgia coffee brand and water and sports drink category offerings which led to consistent volume growth across channels including drugstores convenience retail outlet as well as supermarkets.
Looking ahead and consistent with what we said during our last earnings call we expect our fourth quarter volume results in Japan to moderate somewhat below our year-to-date trend as we cycle strong growth from prior year.
Having said that our business in Japan is on track to deliver full year low-single-digit growth.
Moving now to China.
Our business delivered 2% volume growth this quarter cycling last year's double-digit growth.
On a year-to-date basis our volume in China has grown 6% cycling strong 15% growth from last year.
And once again this quarter we captured both volume and value share in sparkling beverages.
Importantly and in alignment with our strategic priorities in China we are growing transactions ahead of volume with total transactions up 10% year-to-date.
One package that is helping us deliver against that strategy is our 300 ml milliliter package.
On a year-to-date basis this new package has generated over 0.5 billion incremental transactions in China.
We will keep driving our 300 ml package to provide consumers with a great offering at the right price point while also building our brands and the sparkling category in a healthy way over the long term.
As we look ahead to the next 6 months it is reasonable to expect that China's ongoing economic slowdown may have a short-term effect on our industry and on our business.
In our view the Chinese economy is undergoing a natural and necessary economic transition as the government places greater emphasis on controlling long-term inflation over injecting short-term economic stimulus.
While the Chinese economy undergoes this period of transition we have every confidence in the long-term resilience of our business for 3 key reasons.
First our brands in China are strong.
In our latest survey of consumers aged 12 to 49 years old Coca-Cola was rated as both the most favorite sparkling and nonalcoholic ready-to-drink brand.
In this same survey Minute Maid was rated as the most favorite juice drinks brand.
Second we hold the leadership position in the sparkling category.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter in which our sparkling beverages in China either maintained or gained both volume and value share.
And third our system in China is strategically focused well aligned and committed to invest for sustainable long-term growth.
As such we remain encouraged and excited about our opportunities in this region and continue to believe that China will serve as the long-term growth driver for our business.
I also want to share our perspective on a few other markets in the Pacific that are exhibiting strong growth starting with Thailand which again delivered double-digit growth up a sound 19% this quarter.
Thailand growth was led by brand Coca-Cola which was up 26% in the quarter and 34% year-to-date.
I also want to highlight our result in South Korea another market which has grown double digits in both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
As additional context our business in South Korea has nearly doubled since 2007.
This is a testament to our system's ability to implement a robust set of occasion-based price and packaging offerings to consumers and drive growth across this region.
We're excited about the growth opportunities in both Thailand and South Korea and we'll keep investing for the future in these vibrant markets.
Moving now to Latin America our volume grew 5% for both the quarter as well as year-to-date.
As in previous quarters this growth was led by brand Coca-Cola up 3% in both the quarter and year-to-date.
In Latin America we once again captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Our 2 largest markets in Latin America Mexico and Brazil were both up a solid 6% this past quarter while also growing volume and value share in sparkling still and also the entire nonalcoholic ready-to-drink category.
Importantly our growth in both these markets was well balanced across all categories.
Mexico grew sparkling beverages 3% and still beverages were up double digits for the quarter.
Similarly Brazil delivered 4% sparkling beverage growth and double-digit still beverage growth for the quarter.
Brazil was up 5% on a year-to-date basis.
In light of these strong results we now expect our 2012 growth in Brazil to be in the mid-single digits.
Let me also share our perspective on a few other markets in Latin America that we see as great opportunities for long-term growth; specifically Colombia Ecuador and Peru.
Together these markets are 1/3 the size of our current Brazilian business.
Our system is very focused on implementing the same winning strategies in these markets that have driven such positive results in Brazil this past decade.
We will keep investing in Colombia investing in Ecuador and Peru and across the entire Latin America region as we execute our 2020 Vision.
As such it is easy to see why we are excited about the long-term growth opportunity represented by these 3 dynamic Latin American markets.
Our Eurasia &amp; Africa business extended its strong momentum growing a solid 11% in both the quarter and year-to-date including 11% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola.
During the quarter our business in Eurasia &amp; Africa grew both volume and value share in total  nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
On a country level India once again led this group's performance delivering balanced and consistent quality growth.
Our business in India was up 15% for the quarter with double-digit growth and volume and value share gains realized across both sparkling and still beverages.
Sparkling beverage growth in India was led by brand Coca-Cola up over 30% for the second consecutive quarter as we sustained our focus on immediate consumption offerings.
And still beverages in India were led by our juice drink brands with Maaza up over 20% again in the quarter.
Russia was up 7% in both the quarter and year-to-date with the strong result driven by the further acceleration of brand Coca-Cola which grew 18% in the quarter and 20% year-to-date.
Like last quarter we observed similarly strong results across our broader sparkling portfolio in Russia with Fanta up 15% and Sprite up 7%.
And our Dobriy juice brand built on its recent success delivering 16% growth in the quarter and raising this brand's year-to-date performance up to 12%.
Our strong performance across the Eurasia &amp; Africa Group was supported by our partnership with Aujan.
We're excited about the further growth opportunities represented by our partnership with Aujan which holds the #1 position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East.
And our collaborations in Eurasia &amp; Africa extend beyond business relationships as exemplified by our partnership with The Global Fund to bring critical medicines to rural Africa.
At last month's Clinton Global Initiative we announced our plans to expand the reach of project Last Mile which was established in 2010 to help Tanzania's government-run medicine distribution network build a more efficient supply chain by leveraging our expansive distribution system and core business expertise.
Nearly 20 million Africans have benefited from this partnership since 2010.
The newest phase of this partnership will increase the availability of medicines to 75% of Tanzania and expand the project's reach to Ghana and Mozambique.
The success of this project demonstrates our belief in the power of civil society government and the private sector or what we call the Golden Triangle working closely together to solve real global issues and problems.
Moving now to Europe.
We saw our business return to growth up a solid 1% for the quarter.
These results were achieved despite the continuation of unseasonably poor weather in the first half of the quarter as well as the impact of ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
Even with these external headwinds all 4 of our European business units saw positive growth this quarter demonstrating our ability to execute with excellence across this entire region.
Germany once again led the region up 3% for the quarter and 2% year-to-date.
This marks Germany's seventh consecutive quarter of positive growth.
And while our business in Germany is winning today we are connecting with consumers to ensure continued success for tomorrow.
An example of this was our award-winning Coca-Cola summer campaign in Germany which was named the best 2012 out-of-home campaign by Germany's leading marketing industry weekly.
Understanding that music is a passion point for teenagers our campaign in Germany leveraged our global partnership with Spotify a leading music streaming platform to offer teenagers access to millions of songs and exclusive Coca-Cola content.
This campaign generated more than 1.5 billion contacts and reached more than 90% of all teenagers in Germany as they created their own Coca-Cola playlists and shared them with their friends via Facebook.
We are successfully applying the same consumer engagement principles across regions as exemplified by our highly successful global activation of the 2012 London Summer Olympic Games.
Our internal indicators show that the marketing programs we executed across almost 100 markets drove global improvements in recruitment frequency and brand equity with our consumers.
Our television commercials were acknowledged by Ace Metrix as consistently being among the highest-rated ads during the Olympics.
Our efforts across the digital and mobile space were also recognized.
We received a Digital Gold Award by Unmetric a brand tracker who analyzed the social media performance of every major sponsor.
And we were honored with the Global Marketer of the Year award by the Mobile Marketing Association while also taking home a Best in Show nod at their awards ceremony for our Olympic Games Move to the Beat campaign.
Our social media programs' success goes well beyond our Olympics activation.
Over just the last 9 months Coca-Cola's Facebook page has grown by over 40%.
This past quarter Coca-Cola became the first brand to achieve over 50 million likes.
And as of today this number has increased further surpassing 52 million.
This rise parallels the growth of our social engagements footprint across all major social networks that generate conversation and content with our consumers.
The recent study by PQ Media found that Coca-Cola was the #1 brand in social media impressions by nearly a 2:1 margin over the next most-mentioned brand.
Another area of emphasis for our system is to support sustainable communities by replenishing 100% of the water used in our finished beverages by 2020.
To advance this goal we recently announced the global clean water partnership with DEKA Research &amp; Development to bring clean water to communities where potable water access is limited.
This partnership will leverage innovative technology to deliver clean drinking water to schools health clinics and community centers in rural regions of Africa Asia and Latin America.
When fully scaled this partnership is expected to add more than 0.5 billion liters of clean drinking water per year to the global water supply.
While water is the lifeblood of our business we're committed to doing our part to replenish the water we use and give back to communities we proudly serve.
By partnering with DEKA we hope to empower local entrepreneurs with a specific focus on women by delivering as well as maintaining a clean water solution for communities and improving the daily lives of thousands of people around the world.
Finally we were humbled and honored earlier this month when brand Coca-Cola topped the list of Interbrand's Best Global Brands rankings.
Interbrand has rated Coca-Cola as the #1 brand on its list every year since 2000.
This is a testament to our ongoing commitment to invest in our brands innovate our marketing and engage with our consumers in a sustainable manner that builds long-term value.
Certainly the world has been very volatile from a macroeconomic perspective over the last 4 years.
As a global company and also on behalf of all our associates I'm pleased to say that we continue to crack the calculus for growth in this challenging and volatile environment.
We've done this by consistently increasing our investments in our system and our brands to ensure that our global portfolio is more relevant and healthier today than it's ever been during our history.
We remain resolutely focused on ensuring that we leverage our unique heritage and fuse it with what is expected by our consumers today in order to earn and sustain our place in their daily lives today and tomorrow.
I want to thank all of our consumers who invite us into their lives 1.8 billion times each and every day.
And I want to thank all of our shareholders for your interest and investment in our company.
It's a great responsibility.
You can rest assured that our entire leadership team is working diligently to protect and grow the value of your investment in our company both today and for tomorrow.
So with that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We delivered another quarter of solid performance results reflecting our global system's ability to consistently execute our strategic plans while managing through a still unpredictable macroeconomic environment.
As you'll recall I provided a commentary about the third quarter during our last earnings call because we knew there were several unique timing and cycling factors to consider when modeling the third quarter.
Taking these factors into account I'm pleased to say that our third quarter results were consistent with the commentary we provided in our last earnings call.
And as such we remain confident in our ability to deliver full year volume revenue and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.
So let me start our review with our third quarter results with our comparable earnings per share which came in at $0.51 this quarter and at $1.56 on a year-to-date basis up 2% year-to-date despite facing considerable currency headwinds throughout the year.
Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 1% this quarter in line with our expectations.
And on a comparable basis the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 7% headwind.
On a year-to-date basis our comparable currency-neutral operating income is up 4% also in line with our expectations.
As per my previous comment we expect to deliver full year operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets and we understand that this implies we will achieve double-digit comparable currency-neutral operating income growth in the fourth quarter.
Comparable currency-neutral net revenues grew 6% in the quarter.
The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 5% headwind.
On a year-to-date basis comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth is also at 6%.
As we discuss profit and revenue growth rates let me take a moment to remind everyone that the profits and revenues generated by some of our more recent strategic partnerships including Aujan and Innocent among others are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
So while unit cases related to these businesses are fully reflected in our volume growth their associated concentrate sales or concentrate gallons-associated profits and revenues are not currently contributing to our operating income and revenue growth rates.
Instead these profits are consolidated into our equity income results.
While this did not materially impact our third quarter results I think it's important because there is an impact on growth rates.
Returning now to a review of our third quarter results our concentrate sales came in slightly ahead of unit case volume by approximately 0.5%.
As a reminder growth rates for concentrate sales and unit cases can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
Having said that concentrate sales are in line with unit cases year-to-date and we expect our full year concentrate sales growth to be in line with unit case volume growth.
As for our consolidated price mix this came in slightly positive in the quarter rounding to even consistent with outlook we provided in our last quarter call.
On a year-to-date basis our consolidated price mix is up 2%.
We continue to expect our full year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2% in line with our long-term target range.
Our third quarter comparable gross margins were in line with our second quarter comparable gross margins.
This was a slight improvement over the estimate we provided during our last earnings call as we successfully offset some of the currency and mix shift headwinds faced by our business.
For the full year we still expect our comparable gross margins to come in below our second and third quarter comparable gross margins.
On comparable currency-neutral SG&amp;A expenses they were up 8% in the quarter and 6% year-to-date.
These results include a mid-single-digit increase in our third quarter direct marketing expenses as we continue to invest in the health and strength of our brands.
Our third quarter SG&amp;A also reflects an increase due to the timing of certain operating expenses as well as the cost of adding incremental feet on the street primarily in North America in support of our growing business.
And one point of both our quarter and year-to-date SG&amp;A rate is related to the impact of structural items primarily in our Bottling Investments Group and North American business.
As we look to the rest of the year we expect our full year SG&amp;A to come in close to our current year-to-date rate.
Our operating expense leverage was minus 4 points this quarter right in line with the minus 3- to a minus 5-point range that we estimated during our last earnings call.
As we've stated in our last call we expect this trend to reverse in the fourth quarter as we benefit from having 2 additional selling days.
This should enable us to achieve slightly positive operating expense leverage on a full year basis.
Our net interest came in at a positive $16 million in the third quarter which is ahead of our initial expectations.
This raised our year-to-date net interest income to $43 million.
Looking ahead we still expect our net interest to come in as an expense in the fourth quarter primarily due to expected lower rates in some of our international locations as well as ongoing currency headwinds.
As a result we're updating our full year net interest income outlook to a $30 million to $40 million range.
Our underlying effective tax rate held steady at 24% and we expect to carry this 24% tax rate into next year.
And our cash flow from operations increased a very healthy and very strong 15% year-to-date.
Our year-to-date share repurchases net of employee stock option exercises totaled $2.3 billion placing us well on track to achieve the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for full year 2012 that we communicated at the outset of this year.
With regard to commodities in our last call we reduced the estimated full year incremental impact of our Big 4 commodity cost on our results to $300 million.
Based on our latest forecast and hedge positions we now expect our full year incremental cost of commodities will come in at approximately $225 million.
As for currencies we previously provided an outlook that we would have an 8% to 9% headwind on an operating income in the third quarter.
Today I can confirm that currency came in slightly better than our initial outlook resulting in a 7% headwind on third quarter comparable operating income.
Based on our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we continue to expect currencies to be a mid-single-digit headwind on our operating income in both the fourth quarter and on a full year basis.
In closing and as Muhtar said earlier we are strategically and successfully advancing our global momentum while navigating through a challenging global economy.
Our system is focused on maximizing economic profit and long-term cash flow which allows us to continue to reinvest in the business and anticipate changes in the marketplace and competitive dynamics.
While we have made several important and strategic investments this year our financial priorities remain the same.
We'll reinvest in the core business.
We still expect to spend around $3 billion in capital expenditures in 2012.
We will strategically invest in acquisitions and partnerships the strength in our bottling system and to increase our position in key nonalcoholic ready-to-drink growth categories.
We will continue to pay dividends.
In 2012 we increased our quarterly dividend 8.5% and we have returned $4.3 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2011.
And further we expect our Board of Directors to approve another quarterly dividend this week which by the way will be paid in December of this year as it has been every year since 1934.
And we'll continue to repurchase shares with excess cash.
In our current program which we started in 2006 we've already repurchased 533 million shares at an average price of $31.17.
Since our share repurchase program started in 1984 we have repurchased 2.9 billion shares at an average price of $12.55.
As a result of our strong cash flow and that of our bottlers I remain very confident that we can continue to invest and deliver our long-term growth targets on a sustainable basis to achieve our 2020 Vision and deliver value to our shareowners.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
Our first question today comes from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Gary you talked about the double-digit operating profit growth expected for Q4 versus the 4% year-to-date I think it's something like 14% you need to hit the 6% lower end of the long-term range for the full year.
I know you have the 2 extra days in the fourth quarter.
You mentioned commodities were easing.
Anything else about the timing of expenses in the fourth quarter versus year-to-date as well as what you're lapping in the fourth quarter that'll explain the strength? I know last year's fourth quarter was strange you had some of the timing differences related to the CCE transaction.
So I don't know if that's also coming into play in the lap there.
Bill this is Muhtar.
Let me just address a few of the things in your question and then Gary will add some more commentary.
First I want to just ensure and stress that our business momentum continues in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges.
Our system is very well aligned and on track to achieve our 2020 Vision.
And the appetite for investment by our bottling partners is strong as it has ever been.
And consumers' love for our brands is stronger than ever.
And as such we do remain confident in our ability to meet our long-term targets while also delivering sustainable profitable growth and value for our shareowners.
With respect -- and so -- at the outset.
With respect to your question on the fourth quarter let me -- as Gary said we -- based on what we know today we feel very confident that we can dock our ship for 2012 in line with our long-term growth targets for both top line and bottom in terms of operating profit.
And so as Gary mentioned that will imply having a double-digit growth in our operating income for the fourth quarter.
We feel confident that that can be achieved based on what we know and based on current trends.
And that is a host of reasons; cycling of marketing expenses as you saw total marketing for the company was up quite significantly in the fourth quarter.
We had spend related to -- a onetime spend related to the Olympics to the UEFA Cup spending on our brands in a healthy way.
And I think it is important to note that you can find many companies today around the world around -- in the United States around the world that can generate their profit line from no growth in top line.
That is not sustainable.
We feel very confident that we're doing the right thing for our business right thing for our brand and we will dock our ship in 2012 yet again in line with our long-term growth target despite having -- facing significant commodity headwinds in both 2011 and cycling also on top of that headwinds in 2012 investing in our brands growing our top line and also earning our price/mix.
So I'd like to just emphasize that and pass it over to Gary.
Okay.
Bill a couple of things.
As you mentioned the 2 extra days helped significantly most particularly in the finished products business so both in North America and in BIG.
And we saw the opposite impact of the 1 less day in the first quarter.
So the 2 extra days helped significantly.
There are quite a bit of cycling things.
And you see a lot of that cycling in the third quarter which made the third quarter so complex and that's why we try to give a lot of extra guidance at the end of the second quarter because of the third.
But a lot of that is what we've been saying all year particularly about the North America business how we would expect to see sequential improvement in the North America business.
If you remember just it went from minus 9 to even now to plus 3 and you'll continue to see improvement in North America.
The easing of commodities is -- obviously is helping some although a lot of that commodity now has come through the easing has come through into the standard costs but that's helping.
And currency will help as well in that the headwinds of currency from the minus 7 in the third quarter to lower in the fourth quarter not just on the translation of the results but the transactional impact particularly inside of BIG where that currency owned -- the cost of their commodities or in their cost of goods we do not pull out our currency-neutral calculation.
So the impact of currency does hurt BIG results and so that will improve as well in the fourth quarter.
So I think everything we're seeing -- the brands are healthy.
We've taken pricing across the world we've seen much better elasticities than what we've ever had historically which give -- has given us a lot of optimism as well.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of North America so it's nice to see the profitability of slight positively in the quarter.
If you could just maybe talk about as you look 2013 your ability to sort of sustain kind of a positive pricing mix.
And also just color as it relates to some of the commentary on channel mix that you've alluded to in the last quarter where you continue to see that pressure in terms of shift towards take home versus immediate consumption and how that's kind of playing out so far.
Sure.
Judy let me address some of those.
I'm very pleased with the performance of our United -- U.S.
business.
I think in terms of -- we've increased total beverage volume and value share in this past quarter once again driven by the 2% overall volume growth led by 7% growth in still beverages while -- and also maintaining sparkling volume on a year-to-date basis.
And this is again 10th quarter in a row of volume growth in our North America business.
And I think we continue to build our occasion-based price pack channel strategy that provides increased consumer choice along with preferred packages preferred price points which is very important in this economic environment.
We see also some more positive trends in the channel mix compared to last quarter.
I think the overall convenience retail channel in the third quarter was stronger.
Industry grew almost -- certainly above 4% almost 5%.
And we have not only taken significant pricing 3% price/mix up again in the quarter and maintained it for the full year but also we are focused very much on transactions getting pricing maintaining share and growing transactions in the United States.
That's the model.
That's working.
And specifically we've got a great package in the 12.5 ounce which is retailing for under $1 in that channel for example.
And then also we continue to expand in our food service channel with our innovative Freestyle.
We will pass for the first time this year the 10 000 mark in terms of dispensers deployed in this coming quarter in the quarter that we're in the fourth quarter.
The average incidence lift there is more than 6% the volume lift is significant as well as revenue lift for the customer.
So that's another very important point of reference in our business in the United States.
And again our growth is led by strong performance with Coke Zero up almost double digits in this past quarter coming back very strongly strong performance across multiple categories such as POWERADE continuing Gold Peak growing strong double digits Fuze growing smartwater glacéau Minute Maid all growing in a very significant manner.
So we feel confident that our North America strategies are working.
We are focused on execution.
We can always improve and strive for more we always do.
And we're optimistic about our outlook despite the challenging competitive and macroeconomic backdrop.
But important channels we see better light coming through in some of the really important critical channels in the third quarter.
I hope that's helpful.
Judy it's Gary.
On your -- the rest of your question in 2013 we're going through business plans now.
And on the year-end call we'll give you an outlook on what we see both for North America and rest of world as well as -- because that will obviously encompass things like commodities currencies et cetera.
So we'll go through that at the end of the year.
And -- but we can't do it today.
And again just to close the question we feel confident about sequential improvement in this year and the fourth quarter in the U.S.
business in terms of results.
And again we feel that the strategies that we've deployed are working in the United States.
We have invested.
Our total marketing again in the United States in the quarter and this past quarter is up.
And also I would say to you that we feel that specifically also that the packaging strategies are working really well for us.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just have a question regarding productivity in the productivity and reinvestment program.
I guess one is just Gary if you could give us some idea of how much productivity is contributing to this year and kind of where you stand in terms of the 2015 target.
And then Muhtar I think in your comments you talked about the new reporting lines and how that would help enable leveraging synergies.
And so I just wanted to see if you could tie that comment back to the productivity and reinvestment program.
Does it -- do the new reporting -- does the new reporting structure accelerate it? Does it increase enhance it in some way? Just trying to get a sense of kind of where we stand on productivity.
Yes.
Bryan thanks.
This is Gary.
On the program just to remind everyone what we announced earlier this year is a new productivity and reinvestment program from 2012 through 2015.
And $550 million to $650 million composed of quite a few different focus areas.
And we would take all of the productivity that we realize and then take that and reinvest it back behind -- into the brands.
We have started.
We're well on the way.
In fact I can tell you that I have a sightline today to where we can achieve the entire target so it's not an issue at all on achieving.
Relative to the current year I would say it's probably in the $40 million to $50 million range that's already been achieved and reflected in the results or will be in this year.
So it's already flowing through.
And we're doing I think really well.
Just to remind everyone the focus areas were around supply chain optimization around marketing and innovation effectiveness around operational excellence which leads to OpEx leverage and around standardizing data and IT systems where places where you can really get a lot of leverage and then take that and reinvest it behind the brands.
Muhtar? Yes.
And again Bryan in terms of the structure I think we have a new leadership structure that is going to be leaner more effective more flexible structure; and that is going to drive a further I believe enhancement in our productivity initiatives.
Gary and Ahmet Bozer and Irial and Steve and myself will be -- in terms of looking at these productivity initiatives feel confident.
And as Gary can see the -- have sight in the numbers and in the productivity being achieved I think that we will certainly be looking at what we can do to enhance it even further.
As you know we came in in the last productivity cycle for the past 3 years significantly over our targets and we feel that we have again room to improve always.
And also as Gary said importantly while we deliver our results this allows us to continue to invest successfully and making our brands even stronger.
That is the key and that's what you should always be looking for and that's what we always look for.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just sort of circle the square for me here? So you had great organic growth in both Latin America and Eurasia with terrific price and mix.
But those are the 2 regions where you had the biggest margin compression.
So is that really just sort of year-over-year comparisons and maybe some of the FX transaction here? Because you would have thought that with that kind of growth perhaps the margins would have been a little bit better.
Just very quickly on that.
I'll tell you first we had very significant marketing spend in our international operations and total company for the third quarter.
Our total marketing was up double digits for our international operations.
And I think that again that is partly cycling from prior year particularly in certain geographic areas.
But also it was to do with the onetime spend related to the Olympics related to brand building around the UEFA Cup particularly for Europe but also for Eurasia as well as for Latin America.
So I think you need to take it into that context from the perspective of marketing spend cycling and prior year comparisons.
And I'll see if Gary wants to add anything to that.
Yes one thing I would add and I don't know if this is directly responsive to your question but when I made a few comments in the prepared remarks about volume and how we have different business models like the Innocent Aujan et cetera.
So you've got some volume in Eurasia this quarter for example.
So if you look at the table in the release if I remember correctly it would show that Eurasia and Africa's volume volumes up 11% and comparable currency-neutral operating income is up 11% as well.
So you're not seeing a lot of leverage in that.
If you -- but remember there is no income in there related to Aujan.
It's sitting down in equity income but the volume is in that 11%.
So if you adjust for that Eurasia Africa actually has some really nice operating leverage within their P&amp;L.
And so on operating margins they're actually sitting in a really nice place for the quarter and year-to-date.
So and then on Latin America I don't think anything really unusual at all.
I think they just continue to hum along as they have for the last number of years.
And there's nothing other than we continue to invest in Latin America because it's such a great great strong market.
One other thing about Latin America just want to add context is in the -- a couple of years ago we had this discussion.
And many were questioning Latin America's ability to continue grow.
And I always said "Latin America is just beginning its journey in still beverages." The key is to have balanced growth.
Still beverages though growing of course from a very small base at a higher rate of growth than sparkling beverages.
But I think there's -- Latin America is a great model for how we can continue to grow at even high per capita as for sparkling beverages entering into new categories.
And I think that is adding tremendous value to our business and also tremendous strength to our bottom line as we continue to progress in Latin America.
We're cycling a very strong quarter from Latin America last year and we still achieved 5% and generating very healthy returns.
Yes.
The only –I'd add one other thing as well.
We're probably starting to give you too much detail.
But within the quarter in Latin America -- in Brazil actually they started making -- we started making our initial investments around the 2014 World Cup.
That's in marketing.
And while in absolute dollars it's not that big it will continue.
But in fact it does have an impact of 1 point or 2 points on the leverage that you're seeing in Latin America.
So I guess all in what we're saying is we are continuing to invest in the brands.
We're investing well ahead of the curve.
We're getting ready for 2014 World Cup.
It's flowing through in the third quarter.
And you'll see it flow-through next quarter as well because we're going to make sure that we do these things right.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In taking a look at the price/mix number obviously didn't come in as strongly as we've anticipated in Europe and the Pacific.
Can you talk a little bit about what's driving those price/mix numbers and sort of how you see that playing out over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
Thanks John.
Let's go to Europe first.
And there I think price/mix was negative 4 and there are a couple of things going on there.
But I'd say it's primarily actually the economic condition of Europe.
And we've been seeing this flow through for some time now.
So I think it's kind of the new normal until we start seeing some more favorable results.
But what you're seeing is go to Madrid and what you -- and look at the cafes and there aren't a lot of people sitting around drinking cokes or coffee or whatever.
It is a shift in consumer spending in Europe from immediate consumption much more to future consumption.
So while we grew our volume across the region or across each of the business units there is a shift and it's all about the macroeconomic environment that we're dealing with.
So we feel very confident because people continue to love the brands.
They continue to buy the brands.
They are just buying them in more of a take home because they're not going out.
So it's the macros that are impacting that.
And additionally if you look at the growth rates there's negative geographic price/mix in Europe as well just look at the growth rates.
Europe and Central and Southern Europe grew faster than Spain and Northwest Europe.
So that's some of it as well.
And we're cycling through the tax increase in France.
So it's all of those kinds of things together.
Don't expect to see it get worse.
I think we're kind of at the bottom now and should be okay.
Relative to price/mix in the Pacific I think your initial reaction would probably be "Oh my God it's minus 6." And your initial reaction is probably that it's all China.
Well it's not actually.
A lot of it is actually because if you look at cases and gallons while as I said in the prepared remarks that gallons are slightly about 0.5 point ahead of cases in the quarter in Japan where Japan volume was up 2 gallons were actually down 2.
And it's normal and it'll be fine at the end of the year.
But that's 4-point swing in Japan which as a very high profit per gallon market causes significant price/mix negative price/mix and that's a large part of what we're seeing in the Pacific.
It's not a big deal.
I think Japan was I think pretty much in line year-to-date and will be full year.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's great.
And then if I can just ask a follow-up on the -- particularly on the Spain piece of this which is are you guys running on a straight incidence pricing model then in Spain? Because that negative channel mix would probably -- I'm trying to figure out how that's impacting you so quickly unless you're providing either a you're on a straight incidence in which case the channel mix would hit you immediately? Or are you providing a little extra funding into the bottlers in terms of trying to help them get through this? John the primary reason I'd say probably 70% -- this is Muhtar 70% of the mix in Europe is geographic related to the fact that lower price regions like Germany and Eastern Europe and Central Europe were growing faster than some of the other regions in Europe that have a higher pricing like France like England and that has really -- and like Spain.
Spain has one of the highest prices in Europe.
And so that has had the biggest contributing factor.
One of the reasons for that was very unseasonable weather in Northern Europe during half of the quarter.
It's never been wetter than -- in history than this – than the beginning of the quarter for 2.5 -- 2 months 1.5 months half of the quarter in Northern Europe.
So that is coming back and we feel that that is one of the primary reasons.
As we have more balanced growth in Europe which we expect will happen and as Gary said we feel that it's not going to get any worse than it is and it may even -- and even in these conditions we can generate growth and crack the calculus for growth then we feel that that will certainly be coming back quite significantly.
Spain remains today on a net revenue per unit case basis the highest in Europe.
So I just want to make sure that those -- that commentary gets through.
Our next question comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Obviously my concern is definitely around China.
And just I'm just wondering how margins in the Pacific would not be impacted by what's happening in China.
Can you just dig a little deeper? Was there -- did you have increased promotional activity in China during the quarter? Or should we expect that in the next period? Just as we know the competitive environment there has got more -- both more price competitive and there's more distribution for Pepsi brands there.
Well firstly I mean I think Caroline on China we are confident in our ability to continue growing in China in this important market despite the changing as you mentioned competitive landscape and softness -- comparative softness in the macro conditions.
And our transactions are up a healthy 7% in the past quarter.
We have said it before in previous quarters that we're focused on transactions and that's the health of the business in China.
And certainly we're driving transactions in a very favorable way.
Year-to-date volume is a solid 6% and our brands are very strong.
We have a clear leadership position in the sparkling category and I have total confidence in both our bottling partners COFCO and Swire beverages and Bottling Investment Group were to continue to deliver.
You have noted from previous calls that on a total comparative basis relative basis China's contribution to profit is less than its contribution to volume in the Pacific Group for a number of reasons.
One is because we've got much more developed countries that have much bigger margins for like of course Japan but like also Australasia.
And therefore it is -- the impact -- even if we were to promote in China and not that again we feel it's a rational environment.
But even if we were to promote it would not have significant impact on the results of the Pacific Group simply because of the size and scale of the profit pools that are generated out of markets like Japan and out of markets like Australasia.
And again given the size of our Japan profit pool in the Pacific Group what Gary mentioned is the primary cause of that which is an increase in volume 2% but a commensurate decrease at the same percent point in actually concentrate shipments.
Our final question today comes from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Muhtar I was hoping we could talk a little bit more about North America c-stores and I had 2 questions there.
Firstly on the sparkling part of your portfolio can you give us a little more detail on what's going on with some of the smaller pack sizes? I think they were having some difficulty in the second quarter.
What's happening there? And also within sparkling in c-stores competing products with Mountain Dew spending a lot more what's your strategy versus that particular brand with your portfolio? So that's on the sparkling side.
And then can you just give us an update on the energy segment sequentially in c-stores? Yes I think in terms of -- firstly the good news is that there is more positives to talk about the c-store channel in the quarter than in the first half of the year we feel.
And certainly it is also important to note that we aggressively led the industry on competition and pricing in the channel.
And also that the industry grew at around just under -- shy of 5% roughly in the channel.
And we led the pricing.
And we have again very healthy growth in transactions.
And we held share in the channel and of course in total market.
And in terms of packaging our variety of packages starting with the entry pack of 12.5 ounce is really working well for us at the entry price of under $1.
And then that puts us -- our 16 ounce significantly ahead of competition and pricing at $1.19 and so on and so forth.
So I would say we are very confident and very pleased with the progress that we have in that channel as we have in the Foodservice channel where we see increased traffic coming through particularly in the latter part of the quarter.
And then in energy you asked we had double-digit volume growth.
Our brands were up and gained volume and value share in the energy channel in -- which is primarily the c-store the convenient store channel.
But also I'd say that our variety of packages including the mini cans 8.5 ounce mini cans and all the way through the 1.25 liter combined with the 2-liter et cetera are working really well for us in the future consumption channel as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like Mountain Dew -- of all the things competitively happening in c-stores Mountain Dew is not on the margin a big impact on your business at least for now? I wouldn't want to comment on competition.
I just would say that I think it's healthy for everyone.
So thank you Gary and Jackson.
And in closing we had a strong third quarter have again delivered quality year-to-date performance results.
Our business continues to grow even in the midst of global economic challenges.
Our system is clearly aligned on track to achieve our 2020 Vision.
The appetite for investment by our bottling partners is as strong as it's ever been.
And together we as a system continue to invest in our brands on a global scale through world-class marketing and also through world-class commercial strategies.
And as a result consumers' love for our brands is stronger than ever.
As always we thank you for your interest and your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you so much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's full-year and fourth quarter 2012 earnings results conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I am joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer Ahmet Bozer President of Coca-Cola International Steve Cahillane President of Coca-Cola Americas and Irial Finan President of our Bottling Industries Group.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time-to-time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that we are pleased with our reported results today.
In a year marked by further uncertainty in the global economy once again we delivered solid volume solid revenue and solid profit growth.
We grew our worldwide volume by 3% in the quarter and 4% for the full year.
We generated in comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 5% in the quarter and 6% for the full year in the process delivering net revenues over $48 billion in 2012 consistent with the outlook we provided last quarter we delivered full year comparable currency neutral operating income growth of 6%.
This growth also translated into our company-generating record comparable operating income of more than $11 billion for 2012.
Importantly we met our long-term volume revenue and profit targets for the full year an accomplishment we are proud of meeting or exceeding every year since we announced our 2020 Vision.
In fact since the first quarter of 2010 and the start of our 2020 Vision during one of the most difficult macroeconomic environments in recent history we have firstly grown our daily servings by more than $200 million serving more consumers daily on a global basis than at any other time in our history.
Secondly increased our global volume and value share of both our Spark or our core sparkling and nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages to their highest levels since 2003 and thirdly we added over $30 billion to our company's market capitalization.
We are well on our way to doubling our systems' revenues by 2020 to $200 billion reflecting the ongoing commitment of our entire global system to keep investing together for a better tomorrow and we are crystal-clear on why we do what we do so it is our mission to refresh the world inspire moments of optimism and happiness and to create sustainable value while making a lasting difference.
This year we once again led industry growth and expanded our volume and value share gains globally in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category where our portfolio was up 3% for the full year.
This is the third straight year our sparkling beverages had grown by at least 550 million incremental cases.
This has added more than 13 billion new servings annually to our global business for the past three.
This growth of our sparkling beverages has consistently and reliably been led by brand Coca-Cola which grew a very healthy 3% for the full year of 2012.
We also gained global share in still beverages with our portfolio growing a solid 10% for the full year.
This year this full year growth was led by POWERADE and DASANI which were both up double digits and our Glaceau trademark brands which were up mid-single digits.
In fact our still beverage portfolio growth was well-balanced with mid-single to double-digit growth across every single still beverage category in which we compete.
As we have shared for some time now we recognize that consumers across the globe continue to feel the effects of a still uncertain global economy.
2012 saw the extension of prolonged uncertainty in Europe the ongoing transition of the economy in China [one] recovery in the United States and ongoing challenges for Japanese consumers.
We expect this volatility to extend through 2013.
Having said the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage category on the whole continues to be vibrant and grow in line with the levels we forecasted when we first developed our 2020 Vision.
Our experience also teaches us that it is critical to seize opportunities during these uncertain times in order to lead and to succeed in any macro environment.
To do so we will together with our bottling partners keep investing in our business so that we not only grow bigger but also we grow better better at collaborating better at innovating and better at listening to our consumers and customers as well as bottling partners.
And most importantly better at executing with precision.
So while 2013 will once again be a year of challenges we are confident that we will continue to generate consistent quality growth in this the fourth year of our 2020 Vision.
So now let us review our performance results across our global markets in more detail beginning first with North America flagship market.
Our business in North America delivered its 11th consecutive quarter of growth up 1% for the quarter and 2% for the full year.
As a result our North America business achieved its best ever full-year volume sales results.
In addition we sustained 2% positive price mix in 2012 resulting in our North America beverage business generating 6% full-year comparable currency neutral net revenue growth.
Importantly we achieved this growth while also realizing full-year volume and value share gains in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
In fact since we initiated our 2020 Vision back at the end of 2009 our U.S.
business has seen consumer dollar spent across measured channels increase from approximately $56 to $60 per person in 2012.
This represents over $1.5 billion of value created by our brand portfolio in these measured channels alone.
I am personally very pleased with our ability to deliver quality results as well as to consistently create real value across our entire North America business.
This year's growth in North America was led by our still beverage portfolio which was up 8% in both the quarter and also for the full year.
This is the fifth consecutive year that our North America still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained both volume and value share.
Our POWERADE brand grew double digits in both the quarter and for the full year making this POWERADE's third consecutive year of double-digit growth.
More importantly POWERADE is the North America sports drink category in both absolute volume and value growth for full year 2012.
This was further evidenced of how today's consumers are increasingly demonstrating a growing preference for this innovative sports drinks brand.
Our premium Smartwater brand achieved a fifth straight year of double-digit growth.
Our juice and juice drinks portfolio also delivered a year of positive growth with our Simply trademark up 7% on a full-year basis.
As such our total juice and juice drinks portfolio gained volume and value share in both the quarter and full-year.
Finally our tea portfolio in North America sustained its momentum up double digits while gaining volume and value share in both the quarter and full year.
This result was led by Gold Peak which was up 36% in 2012 cycling 48% making this Gold Peak's sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
Our sparkling beverage business in North America delivered absolute value growth in 2012 with full year in volume down 1% offset by a positive 2% price mix.
Importantly our strategy to provide meaningful and purposeful choice to consumers continued to yield benefits.
Our core sparkling beverage immediate consumption transactions were up 1% for the full year enabling us to capture sparkling beverage volume and value share in North America in both the quarter and for the full year.
Coke Zero sustained its momentum up high single digits for the full year.
We also saw accelerated growth in Fanta which was up mid-single digits for the full-year.
As we look ahead we remain positive that North America is the long-term growth market for our sparkling beverage business.
We will keep investing in the category and in our winning sparkling portfolio and continue to promote active healthy well-being in all the communities that we proudly serve.
Moving now to Latin America our volume grew 5% in the quarter and for the full year.
The incremental volume we generated in Latin America this year was equivalent to adding a business the size of Canada to this region's volume base.
Our total business in Latin America set a new record with volume sales exceeding 8 billion unit cases or the equivalent of 192 billion servings on a full-year basis for the first time in our company's history.
Our sparkling beverages in Latin America grew a healthy 3% in 2012 with brand Coca-Cola also up 3% both for the quarter and for the full year.
Also our still beverages in Latin America delivered double-digit growth in both the quarter and for the full year.
These well-balanced results translated into Latin America capturing volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages for the eighth consecutive year.
We also saw balanced result across all four of our Latin American business units each generating mid to high single-digit growth for the full year.
Our two largest markets in Latin America Mexico and Brazil were both up a solid 5% this quarter while also growing volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
On a full-year basis Mexico was up 4% supported by consistent brand Coca-Cola growth up 8% in the quarter and the full year.
Brazil grew 6% for the full year with sparkling beverages up mid-single digits in both the quarter and the full year.
And last December also three of our bottling partners in Brazil including two operated by our Bottling Investments Group signed an agreement to combine their operations.
When completed this transaction is going to you create the second-largest Coca-Cola bottling operations in Brazil.
The proposed combination with former company with a greater ability to invest in the market and accelerate growth reflecting our franchise systems' continued evolution in our system's commitment to long-term sustainable growth in Brazil.
Now let me turn to our Pacific Group which grew 2% in the quarter and 5% for the full year.
In Japan our full year volume grew 2% in line with the outlook we provided in our previous earnings calls.
This resulted in our business in Japan delivering a third consecutive year of record high sales volumes.
Our business in Japan also gained full year share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
This result was driven by volume growth across most channels including drugstores convenience retail outlet and supermarkets.
I am also proud to announce that Ayataka our premium green tea brands as well as LOHAS our innovative water brand achieved $1 billion brand status in late 2012.
These are the fourth and fifth billion dollar brands we have added to our portfolio since announcing our 2020 Vision.
Also with regard to Japan last December the four Japanese bottlers from the Greater Kanto region announced an agreement to merge into one integrated and publicly listed company called Coca-Cola East Japan.
While this agreement is still pending final approval by each of the four bottlers shareholders once compete Coca-Cola East Japan will become our fifth largest global bottling partners in terms of annual revenue.
We support this bottler led consolidation in Japan and see it as one example of net of the many ways our franchise system continues to evolve in full alignment with our 2020 Vision.
Moving now to China during our last earnings call we shared our clear expectations that China's ongoing economic transition will have a short-term impact on our industry and on our business.
Since then we've seen disposable consumer spending remain quite challenged in China especially in the export-driven coastal areas where higher proportion of our beverages are proceeding.
As a result our China volume was down 4% in the fourth quarter also impacted by unseasonably poor weather the cycling of double-digit growth from last year and the timing of the Chinese New Year.
On a full-year basis our volume in China grew mid-single digits cycling double-digit growth from last year.
Our strong sparkling beverage portfolio in China continued to expand our nearly 2 to 1 share advantage over our time ridge international competitor.
This portfolio is very well-positioned in China with leading brands in every major sparkling flavor categories including Sprite number one sparkling brand in China Coca-Cola recently rated by Chinese consumers as their most favorite brand and Fanta which registered double-digit growth in 2012 exceeding 100 million annual unit cases for the first half.
And we are committed to investing and innovating across our broader still beverage portfolio in China to strengthen our presence across all categories.
As we look ahead to 2013 we still expect the ongoing uncertainty in China to have a short-term impact on our industry and on our business although we do expect to see improvements in consumer disposable income as the year progresses.
As such from here on we expect our business to deliver sequential improvement in 2013.
As we had stated before we have every confidence in the long-term resilience of our China business and we remain very excited about our long-term opportunities in distribution.
Across the rest of the Pacific Group we realized several new milestone performances in fast-growing markets.
South Korea was up double digits in 2012 with our business sales achieving over 200 million annual unit cases for the first half.
Thailand also delivered double-digit growth up 22% for the full year resulting in record value share and full year unit case volume results.
Philippines also achieved strong results growing 5% for the full year while also capturing volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
As many of you know we recently sold 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines to Coca-Cola FEMSA.
While every bottling transaction is unique this transaction is yet another example of our long-standing and fundamental belief in the strength of our global franchise system.
We look forward to this new partnership with Coca-Cola FEMSA as we jointly invest and further strengthen our business in the Philippines to create sustainable long-term growth and value.
Our Eurasia and Africa business also extended its strong momentum growing a very solid 10% in the quarter and up 11% for the full year including full year double-digit growth for brand Coca-Cola.
During both the quarter and the full year our business in Eurasia and Africa grew both volume and value share in total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
On a country level Russia was one of the key drivers of this group's performance up 8% in 2012 led once again by outstanding growth of brand Coca-Cola which grew 20% for the full year.
The momentum behind our Dobriy juice brand accelerated further with 13% growth for the full year.
Viewed in total we have outpaced the nonalcoholic ready-to drink-industry in Russia grew for three consecutive quarters.
As a result our business in Russia now has achieved an all-time high market share.
Our business in India which grew 16% on a full-year basis continued its long stretch of strong growth realizing both volume and value share gains across both sparkling and still beverage.
Importantly India has now delivered six consecutive years of double-digit volume growth starting back in 2007.
Moving now to Europe.
Our business was down 5% in the quarter and was down 1% for the full year reflecting the region's ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
While we recognize the real challenges of today's European environment it is important place our results in the proper context and to recognize the resiliency of our industry and our business in Europe.
Since the start of 2009 when austerity measures unemployment and fiscal concerns began to weigh heavily European consumer confidence Europe has seen a GDP decline.
In contrast during the same four year period our business in Europe has outpaced the broader industry making our company one of a select few able to deliver positive growth between 2009 and 2012.
We successfully grew our business in Germany up 1% in 2012 despite cycling 6% growth in 2011 while gaining full year share in nonalcoholic beverages.
This makes it three consecutive years that Germany has deliver full year volume growth.
As such we remain confident that our business in Germany is in a sound position and capable of delivering long-term sustainable growth.
Looking ahead we expect Europe's economic uncertainty to extend well into 2013.
At the same time we expect that the European economy and consumer sentiment will gradually improve that our business is well-positioned to return to volume growth as that occurs.
We are also confident that our leadership team and our system will keep investing to outperform the industry in 2013 as Europe continues along the road to recovery.
Before concluding my prepared remarks I would like to highlight our company's sustained efforts and result to work to find meaningful solutions to the conflict issue of obesity.
There is an important conversation going on about obesity and we want to be part of the solution.
Together with partners in government civil society our own industry and other business I am personally committed to leveraging all our resources to lead and make a difference here.
We are committed to use evidence-based science to guide the choices we offer.
We are committed to investing in innovation of our sweeteners products packaging and equipment that fosters active healthy living.
We are committed to bringing real choice to consumers everywhere and educating them on how the choices we offer can play a role in a sensible balanced diet and active healthy lifestyles.
We are committed to transparency about the nutritional content of our products and we are committed to responsible marketing of our products.
In closing we are pleased that our business has done so well in recent years and that we remain well on track to achieve our 2020 Vision.
Together we as a system have delivered on our priorities and we are achieving real success.
With passionate commitment and our collective focus we are propelling ourselves forward during these challenging economic and social times.
As we look back to January 2010 we began our 2020 Vision we had reasons to be proud of our collective achievement and yet remain constructively discontent.
We completed new largest transaction in our history leading to the formation of Coca-Cola Refreshments in North America.
We added five new $1 billion brand our portfolio.
We maintained Coca-Cola as the world's most valuable brand and distinction is earned from very Interbrand every year since 2000 and we launched multiple programs to support the global communities we serve such as our 5x20 initiative to empower 5 million women by 2020 and provide entrepreneurial training to help growth the local businesses.
All that said we are keenly aware of how today's turbulent economic landscape is likely to extend through this year.
As such our 2013 strategic priorities remain absolutely clear.
First will continue to grow sustainably and provide meaningful solutions that enhance the health and well-being of the community we proudly serve.
Second we will win with Coca-Cola while actively promoting the brand and the category.
Third we must absolutely keep winning and executing with excellence with point-of-sale.
Fourth we need to keep maximizing the value of our global beverage portfolio.
And sixth we will encourage and inspire our system and associates to deliver our mission and our vision.
So there is still a great runway ahead of us both for our sparkling beverages as well as across the entire range of our broader portfolio.
After all global consumer expenditures are expected to grow strongly between 2013 and 2012 driven by further economic growth in developing emerging countries as well as expected middle class expansion in populous economies.
So while we are proud of our strong record of delivering results through the first three years of our 2020 Vision we know that we are really just getting started.
All of us at the Coca-Cola Company and the Coca-Cola System remain diligent about what we need to do in order to achieve our results and to effectively and efficiently manage our business for sustainable long-term success for all our stakeholders.
With that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to have once again delivered quality performance results in 2012 making this seventh straight year that our volume and operating income results have been in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets.
Achieving such consistent performance during a time of ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty is a real testament to our global systems' ability to execute our strategic priorities and alignment with our 2020 Vision.
Therefore we remain confident that we will continue to deliver full year volume revenue and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.
So let's review our results in more detail starting with our comparable earnings per share which came in at $0.45 this quarter up 15% versus the prior year.
Our full year comparable earnings per share came in at $2.01 up 5% despite facing what we estimate was about a 4% currency headwind for the full year.
Our comparable currency neutral net revenues grew 5% in the quarter.
The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 1% headwind.
Our full year comparable currency neutral net revenue growth was up 6% in line with our long-term growth target.
On a comparable basis the impact of currency on our full-year net revenue results was a 3% headwind.
Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up double digits this quarter consistent with the outlook that we shared in our earnings call last quarter.
As Muhtar shared a few moments ago on a full-year basis our comparable currency neutral operating income came in at 6% as expected and in line with our long-term growth target.
During our last few earnings call we shared a more specific full year 2012 outlook across several financial items to help those of you who model our business.
I am pleased to say the results were right in line with or slightly ahead of the outlook that we provided.
So I want to take a moment to recap these results and where applicable provide more and further insight into our full year 2013 outlook.
With regard to volume growth our full year 2012 concentrate sales growth was in line with our full year unit case volume growth as per our comments last quarter.
Our consolidated price mix was up 1% for the full year 2012 consistent with our prior year full year outlook.
For 2013 we expect to keep earning low single-digit consolidated price mix as called for on our long-term growth model as we continue executing our occasion-based brand price package and channel strategies with precision around the world.
Our comparable currency neutral SG&amp;A expenses were up 5% on a full-year basis.
This increase in SG&amp;A reflects our ongoing commitment to keep investing for a better tomorrow as we grew our direct marketing expenses in 2012 while simultaneously capturing incremental marketing efficiencies.
We also added additional feet on the street primarily in North America to ensure support of our growing business in this important market.
Our SG&amp;A results for the quarter and full year also included a benefit from the reversal of certain expenses related to our long-term incentive plans as well as a one point unfavorable impact of structural items primarily in our Bottling Investments Group and in North America.
Our full year comparable gross margin was roughly in line with the estimate we provided during our previous earnings calls.
Our operating expense leverage was a positive nine points this quarter as we benefited from having two additional selling days.
The full year operating expense leverage came in at a positive one point.
For 2013 we expect our positive operating expense leverage to be even to slightly positive as we sustain our strategic investments in brand building activities around the world and efficiently manage our operating expenses.
As you as you model our 2013 operating results and our corresponding operating expense leverage let me also remind everyone that our 2013 calendar will have one less day when compared to 2012 specifically our first quarter 2013 will have two less days when compared to the first quarter of 2012 then the fourth quarter of 2013 will have one more day when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Moving now to net interest which came in at a positive $31 million in the fourth quarter.
This was ahead of our initial expectations and raised our full-year net interest income to $74 million.
For 2013 our best estimate is that net interest will come in as an expense ranging between $30 million and $50 million for the full year of 2013.
We will update this outlook each quarter as we move through the year.
For 2012 underlying effective tax rate held steady at 24% and we expect the tax rate for 2013 to be approximately the same.
Our cash flow from operations increased 12% on the full year 2012 partially benefiting from favorable timing relating to certain working capital items.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect our cash flow growth rate to be more in line with our earnings growth rate.
Now let me take a moment to update on impact of several additional items that may help you model our business in 2013 starting with commodities.
Incremental cost related to our big four commodities which are sweeteners metals juices and PET came in at around $225 million for the full year 2012 in line with what we had provided previously.
Looking ahead to 2013 and after considering our hedge positions we anticipate a more moderate year of commodity inflation with incremental related to our big four commodities coming in at closer to $100 million.
As for currencies we saw headwinds of 4% on our fourth quarter comparable operating income and 5% for the full year 2012 our comparable operating income consistent with our previously provided an outlook.
In preparing for 2013 we are fully hedged on the euro yen and sterling and also have the near-term coverage in place across several other currencies.
After considering these hedged positions current spot rates and last week devaluation announcement in Venezuela we now expect currencies to be a 4% headwind on operating income for the first quarter of 2013 and at even minus 1% headwind for the full year but it would even quarter before Venezuela maybe slightly negative with Venezuela.
We'll also report a $100 million to $225 million devaluation loss in the first quarter related to the monetary asset held in Venezuela.
Our normal practice we'll update our currency forecast on a quarterly basis as we go through 2013.
Our full year share repurchases net of employee option exercises totaled $3.1 billion in 2012 just slightly above the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range we communicated at the outset of the year.
In 2013 we expect our net share repurchases to range between $3 billion and $3.5 billion.
Now let me take a moment to highlight a few other items that will also inform you about our business in 2013.
First as previously announced starting this year we will have organized our company around three major operating businesses.
Coca-Cola International consisting of Europe the Pacific and Eurasia and Africa operations.
Coca-Cola Americas consisting of our North America and Latin American operations and our bottling investments group which will continue to oversee our company-owned bottling operations outside of North America.
As this organizational change does not impact our reporting segments we'll continue to disclose of performance results for all five geographic operating groups as well as for our Bottling Investment Group.
That said starting with the first quarter 2013 we will reflect our India and Southwest Asian business results within our specific operating group instead of within our Eurasia and Africa operating groups.
Prior to our to our next earnings call we will provide information reclassifying the last three years of our results for these two geographic operating groups to facilitate through historical comparison of our results to our future results.
Second as previously mentioned by Muhtar there have been several transactions announced these past few months including bottler mergers in Japan and Brazil and the sale of 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines.
To be clear we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results.
However these actions will generate a structural headwind on our year-over-year net revenue and operating income growth rates.
As such we anticipate these transactions to have a 3% structural impact on our full year 2013 net revenue.
Likewise our full year operating income results should be a 1% structural impact with this decline offset by a corresponding improvement in equity income.
As I mentioned we do not see these transactions having a material impact on 2013 earnings per share.
As a final update and as part of our previously announced global productivity and reinvestment program we are reorganizing our Coca-Cola Refreshments business in the United States to align itself and operating functions around three geographies.
Ws.
We take this action as part of our consistent effort to improve our processes and systems and to ensure greater operating effectiveness and productivity across our North American operations.
This new alignment is in keeping with the ongoing evolution of our North American business model as we invest even further to enhance our capabilities and deliver against our 2020 Vision.
In closing and as Muhtar said earlier we are delivering on our strategic priorities and achieving real success.
As we move into 2013 our global bottling system is healthier than ever and our financial priorities remain clear.
We will invest in our core business with plans to spend around $3 billion in capital expenditures in 2013.
We will strategically invest with our global bottling system to increase our share position across key growth categories.
We will pay a healthy dividend and as previously announced we will repurchase shares between $3 billion and $3.5 billion in 2013.
Our system is committed to investing together for a better tomorrow and our proven ability to achieve consistent quality results provides us with the confidence that we will continue to successfully execute our growth strategies with precision in line with our 2020 vision.
Before concluding our prepared remarks I want to remind you that Ahmet Steve and I look forward to seeing you when we present at the upcoming CAGNY conference in Boca Raton on Friday February 22 and Irial and I also look forward to being with you when we present together at the CAGE conference in London on Tuesday March 19.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Muhtar I know you have been doing a lot of globe hopping recently.
So maybe you can just talk about the global macro maybe some granularity about regional growth rates.
I know you were at Sochi and Davos just can you give us some color on how you sense things are going to trend over the next year.
I know you have kind of covered this but maybe some more granularity? Yes Bill I think I have recently been to Korea to Australia in the last 10 days to also Southern Russia and Sochi but I think essentially in Europe there is a sentiment there that people are beginning to feel that it is not going to get any worse that there will be some expansion happening as we move forward and sort of just purely fiscal restraint and monetary restraint.
So that feeling is beginning to emerge but I think it is going to be long recovery.
Certainly in China we are seeing the transition happened from a purely export led economy to one that is more balanced with consumer spending and a combination consumer spending as well as export led a balanced economy I think there was challenges in that transition initially where there was a divergence between GDP growth and pure disposable incomes for a while but I think long-term that’s going to be very beneficial for every one this transition in China.
I think in general Japan is going to also the consumer sentiment will continue to be mobile and volatile there and it is subdued.
For the rest of the world whether it's Africa the youngest billion Latin America Eurasia our Middle East we see and of course Asia Southeast Asia and other parts of Asia Indian subcontinent we see growth we see very disciplined monetary policy balanced budgets good banking system and the consumer is more positive and so it's modeled and it's mixed here into United States we see some signs of improvement.
We need to wait and evaluate the impact of the payroll taxes as well as the higher gasoline prices.
It's too early to say that it's a recovery that is at best look on but we feel that it could get better.
That's how we see the world and based on that we continue to invest for opportunity we continue to invest based on our long-term models and plans with our bottling partners to continue to generate both volume top line and income growth.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Then a follow-up with the change in the structure of CCR North America I mean does this change your philosophy on sort of how long you are going to own the asset and maybe how it's going to be operated going forward.
Sorry.
Are you talking about just the restructuring? Exactly three different regions I guess there were seven businesses and now there is three.
Does that change your view on how long that asset stays with GCC? Yes.
It's got nothing to do with that that at all.
Think if it as last year we announced a new productivity reinvestment program that includes continued synergies from our North America CCR Coca-Cola Refreshment operations to be able to enable us to continue to invest in our brands to grow in North America 11 consecutive quarters of growth.
When we first talked about growth in North America back in '09 people thought that we were trying to go to the moon without lighter and now its reality 11 quarters of consecutive growth and we intend to continue that.
We see this as a growth market and therefore enabled us to continue to invest in our brands.
This is just ordinary course of business.
Think about it exactly like that It's not a big deal ordinary course of business and therefore it's got nothing to do with the United States' bottling structure.
It's just part of our ongoing business and I'll have Steve Cahillane is here with me on this call as well as Ahmet Bozer in area of finance so I can ask Steve to also comment.
Yes.
You said it very well.
This is very much an effectiveness play.
Two years ago when we put these businesses together we had a simple mantra.
First was we're going to make it work.
Then we were going to make it better than then we were going to make it best.
We've learned a lot over the course of last two-and-a-half years.
One of our most successful organizations is our food service organization which is aligned around three geographic units.
we're moving our national retail sales and our field sales organization also around the same two units which will really build our total efficiency and effectiveness our ability to work together our ability to continue to invest in this market invest against our brands put more feet on the street so we are very excited about new organization in Bangalore to get us from making it better to making it.
Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning everybody.
I just wanted to re-clarify one thing first Gary.
Hitting the long-term FX neutral operating profit target you expect to do that in 2013 as well as in the long run.
And then in with closing euro operating expense leverage guided for '13 despite the savings you're signaling step up spending so just want to get an idea of where you are focusing that incremental spending on.
Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
Yes.
And I was trying to be pretty clear but let me be very clear.
We expect to hit our long-term growth target targets both in 2013 and long-term.
That applies to 2013 as well so we are comfortable with that and we would expect to be able to deliver that.
The second thing is we have always had demand to invest through a crisis.
We've been in a global crisis for a number of years now but we've got history and we've seen what happens when you invest through the crisis when you come at the other end as Muhtar says we see things slowly improving across the globe but we expect to come out that the other end much stronger than we were even going in.
And so we are going to continue to drive efficiencies productivity and then reinvestment that back to grow the business and growing the brand.
The brands are stronger than they have ever been but we think we can drive it even further.
So we are going to continue to invest behind the brands.
Just one point to add on that Bill.
I always say as you go up the air gets thinner.
Always remember we are adding on top of significant increases from prior years all the time.
Just on sparkling beverages alone we have added over 0.5 billion cases each year.
So we are cycling that every year and we are continuing to grow.
I think that is really important and in three years the worse that gets probably macroeconomic environment we have seen for a long time we were able to generate volume growth in line with our growth expectations revenue growth in line with our growth expectations and income growth and generating record revenues of $48 billion record income as well as record cash flow.
So I think it needs to be taken into that context.
Continue to crack the calculus for growth.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
So Muhtar I know you spoke a lot about the macro environment but maybe you can speak a little bit about the competitive environment particularly around U.S.
sparkling China and parts of Western Europe where you have seen some step up in competitive pressure and how that's affected your volume performance and how you see that trending in 2013? I think in the United States where as you have heard we continued to gain both volume and value share.
All over the world our share is at an all-time high.
Everywhere across the world in NARTD as well as in the different categories that were operating in and competing in and we choose to compete in.
Similarly in China in sparkling we have widened our gap to our nearest international competitor in sparkling.
In Europe I there has been a month or two where we have had some challenges but overall for the whole year we have again gained share across the whole of broader Europe in Western Europe as well as Eastern Europe and in Southeast Europe across the whole continent in both volume and value share.
To be frank we see competition is healthy and it keeps us on our toes it keeps us executing better and being better becoming more efficient and more productive and all we strive every single day as the business system together with our assembly by bottlers around the world as we strive to get better at making decisions quicker so that we can be more nimble and more innovative.
As you know we have launched more than 800 types of different products over the last four or five years.
Many of them are new innovative products that are gaining great traction as they are in the United States.
Look at the performance of our still business.
Look at the relative performance of our sparkling business.
I mentioned that between 2009 and 2012 spend per person on our brands went up from $56 to $60.
So transactions are up the United States.
Our brand price package and channel allocation architecture is working in the United States.
So both in China transactions are ahead of our volume as well as in the United States immediate consumption business.
So judge us not only by pure volume judge us by the quality of our volume and transaction growth.
We sell and the end-consumers buy packages and products a combination of packages and products each one at a time.
They don’t buy liters.
So that is really important thing to understand and how we think about it.
Okay and then Gary just following up on currency guidance for the full year.
So it seems like the first quarter guidance is actually a little bit worse than I thought.
So can you just help us understand is that based on our hedge position and with the Yen moving pretty sharply how much are you hedge spending in? Judy we are actually fully hedged on the Yen Euro and Sterling.
So coming back to the last Yen position that we have are actually on the money they are in a good place.
So that’s not an issue.
When you look at the first quarter it was actually I said 4% it was pre-Venezuela 4.5%.
So the Venezuela devaluation obviously is a big one when devalued 50%.
So that's number one.
But number two the real impact is not what you would expect.
It's not the yen the impact are the rates that were cycling in the emerging markets particularly Latin America.
If you look at Brazil look at Mexico goes look at the rate at early last year and then they started devaluing South Africa as well.
So if you look at those you will see improving trend so towards the latter part of 2013 based on where spot is today we actually turned positive all with kind of even to minus 1 for the full year but it's frontend loaded negative and then it is improving throughout the year.
And then on Venezuela Gary just the impact you are purely looking at translational impact or some sort of margin impact as you have the pricing control in place? We've got a wealth of monitor assets.
That was 100 to 125 and so if you look in the Wall Street Journal article this morning we just were on a list of other companies that have the same issue so that's kind of a one-time items but I am just telling you has occurred will occur.
Then the translation impact of the revenues will be about 1% drag in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from John Faucher with JPMC.
Thank you.
Just two questions here.
Gary just sort of more of a housekeeping type of thing as you look at the commentary on the net interest line it seems as though that can create a situation and there is probably not much leverage if any below the operating lines.
If you could just sort of confirm that.
And then secondly as we look at the organic top line growth in terms of just simply the bottler case sales volume less price mix decelerated.
It looks like to me at least every quarter this year so can you talk about how you see that trending up as we go through the course of 2012.
You got difficult comparisons in the first half of the year and sort of how that's going to play into your comfort level of hitting that 6% to 8% currency neutral operating profit target.
Thanks.
Sure John.
Yes.
Let me see if I can get the first half of your question.
First the low operating income growth you are right because we will see net interest flow from interest income to interest expense.
There are a couple of things going on in there.
Primarily its rates and just rates are down particularly in some of the emerging markets where we've got some cash which was generating a lot of interest income.
You saw that happening during the latter part of this year and all the reason that interest income was actually a lot better than in the fourth quarter than I told you to expected to be was actually we put on some interest rate swap hedges a couple of years ago.
There is a small ineffectiveness piece to that hedge and ineffective piece has to go through the P&amp;L.
That was actually pretty large this quarter positive and it gave us lot of interest income so that's part of what you are seeing.
In equity income you are going to get some leverage just going to be up because of structural items that talked about from some of the transactions that have occurred.
Then if we go to the second half of your question was tell me again? Just looking at the deceleration in the organic top line growth and again how that maps out over the course of the year and the comfort on let's say the 6% there? Well I think there are a couple of different things.
There I think we are going to see improving and slowly improving trends in many of the markets around the world.
Europe I think will improve.
My expectation is that Europe will improve in 2013 from well we had pretty good improvement from the fourth quarter of 2012.
So I would say you are going to actually see sequential improvement in Europe you are going to see sequential improvement in China for sure.
I think that U.S.
is poised now also in a pretty good place.
Number one I think volumes in 2012 dipped a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Our view is that is not the start of a trend.
We think that just it happened but it is not the start of a trend and we would expect volume actually to be okay in 2013 and we think it will sequentially start coming back and be better and be okay in 2013.
John just to add on that.
I think very little is always said about the 120 or so countries which have a per capita around 125 in our business where volume growth for just 2012 will again 7%.
These countries represented about a little more than one third of our total global volumes.
Countries that we never talk about.
Whether it is Sub-Sahara or whether it is in Asia or Middle East or Central Asia and so forth.
But we grew in these countries 9% in 2010 7% in 2011 7% in 2012.
We keep on growing.
This is the beauty of our portfolio in fact.
So while you may have a quarter where China doesn’t grow or where Europe doesn’t grow we still continue to be able to deliver on our long-term growth model both volume and also for revenues.
Imagine what would have happened to our volume if Europe did grow this past quarter and China.
So this is that the benefit of having this portfolio which is getting stronger and bigger as we continue to invest with our bottling partners in alignment.
Okay and then finally one housekeeping question.
Gary you mentioned the equity income line.
That’s coming out of the operating profit line.
So as you look at hitting your target I am assuming that’s before the bottler deconsolidation right? So that 6% to 8% minus one for the bottler minus one for the FX is kind of how we should look at it? Yes John.
That is exactly right.
So when I said hit the target we hit the target before structural but then you would have to adjust for structural.
That's with pretax or net income being sign.
This is just what is the geographies within the P&amp;L.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Can you give us a little bit more of a sense of against the go forward evolution of the brands globally and in the U.S.? If you look at Germany that strength this quarter and you wanted to do some system changes there Japan showing inconsistent changes and that’s a struggle China is struggling a little bit and there were competitive system changes there also the U.S.
sparkling bottling just got tough and you have got it back to a year ago.
Gary has pointed volume trends are a trend or not it just seems that given all that you might actually for next few years with very large changes through the Coca-Cola system and the industry overall so if you were to close your eyes and see with us how would you see the structure of the system of the future looking versus what it is today? Ali I have always said that the fact that we are a total believer in the franchise system.
It is a beautiful system when you get to work as we have aligned in four divisions aligned with its goals and aligned in its ownership objectives and goals.
That’s what we have.
Therefore we will continue to drive this bottling system with an aligned vision which we have.
As I said we have got three years that we have accomplished that and seven years to go and we are confident that we can continue to accomplish.
As we move through the system you have already heard us talk about what we see in the business for the U.S.
system where we have a role again for our bottling partners.
We still have the same time table for that.
I won't repeat that the time table was.
We said about four to five years since the time that we close the transaction and you can figure we still believe that this doable.
As we move along different parts of the world you see us creating stronger systems like Brazil stronger systems like Kanto.
That is a huge milestone in the 55 year history of our Japanese business getting the four Kanto bottlers to unite and to take cost out of it and continue to invest to drive top line growth for our system.
You will see us doing well as we move forward.
Again refranchising Philippines is another example so don't think of this as seismic changes in our bottling system.
We will continue to fine-tune and evolve as needed as necessary to drive the goals that we have outlined.
It's helpful I guess I am still struggling with what can we look forward to changes in terms of not being as reactionary but maybe thinking going forward and maybe if you can help me? You mentioned the U.S.
you mentioned a little while ago so it's been about two years since you closed the CCE North America transaction.
Can you give us a sense of where you think you are ahead of plan and where you are behind plan? Certainly for many investors this quarter was probably (inaudible) because operating margin starts inflect positively but is it sustainable without any more meaningful restructuring and bigger things? How do you think about the volume trends we have been seeing so far in sparkling when that changes anything how you think not reactionarily but going forward about the structures here.
A different example of.
Well first let me just say everywhere we are doing none of it is reactionary to these four whether it's Brazil whether it's Philippines whether it's Japan and we've got more to talk about too we are not in a position to talk about right now.
All of that is actually prices and U.S.
is all about prices.
And I can tell you very clearly once again that as I mentioned in Judy's question judges not only by the meters judges also by the transaction judges by how we are doing in terms of value of the business that we are creating and the consumer spend that's coming into our business into our brand and the health of our brands.
This is ultimately a brand business.
Our brands are healthier than they have ever been both in sparkling as well as in still beverages.
So I repeat we see opportunities in the United States for us to keep growing and also for us to keep generating value in both sparkling and in still beverages and that's how we see it and whatever it takes for us to be able to investment proactive long-term investment is the key whatever it takes for us to be able to continue our targeted thoughtful purposeful investments you will see us continuing to do that so that we our brands remain healthy our system remains nimble and flexible as far as rest the market as far as production NSR distribution.
Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
A kind of question on just the productivity program just really looking for an update.
First I think if you test the two elements of it both what was initially announced last year plus the extension of the CCR integration your expectation was $550 million to $650 million annualized savings by the end of 2015 so is that still the same or has there been any change to what you are expecting in terms of total savings? Bryan this is Gary.
No changes at all.
You are exactly right.
What we announced the beginning of last year productivity and reinvestment was $550 million to $650 million.
The total company including North America we are still on track in fact well on track on that program.
It was a 2012 through 2015 program and we are continuing to execute against that.
So we are on track.
We are taking the savings and from the supply chain optimization the marketing effectiveness operational excellence data and that the system standardization was area of that of that whole program in addition to what we were doing in CCR and we have taken that and we are reinvesting behind innovation as well as marketing of or brands.
And that's still working well.
What we talked about in North America just today is just a normal part in evolution of that program and we'll continue to do that around the world to drive effectiveness because it really helps in several different ways It's not only about saving money.
It's about operating more effectively so we can operate faster.
Being more productive means we can make decisions quicker and those are things we are driving for.
We want to be fast flexible and very big.
How much did it continue to drive? How much savings did you drive in 2012? Outside of North America we probably had about $40 million to $50 million in savings in 2012.
Then North America continues to drive synergies and doing fairly well against their part of their targets as well.
It is fair to say you think certainly it will be a bigger (inaudible) you pulled the savings to spend back than you had in '12? Yes it will be.
Okay and then just one last one.
Just how much in terms of charges are you expecting to take over the life of the plan relative to the savings? Let me Brain answer it this way.
As we continue to update you on where we are how big the plan is.
So we will call it back to the 650 today but as you know a few years ago we had another program as well that we concluded and started this one.
So we continue to look for efficiencies and effectiveness.
But everything we look at when we evaluated we would expect that the one time cost ought to be in a ratio of no more of 1 to 1.5:1 payback.
So you are taking about 12 to 18 months on something that’s then continuous benefit to the P&amp;L going forward.
Thank you Gary Ahmet Steve Irial and Jackson.
In closing we had a strong 2012 and we once again delivered quality full-year performance results.
Our business continues to grow even in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges.
Our system is aligned and it is on track to achieve our 2020 Vision.
Together we are consistently investing in our brands on a global scale through world-class marketing and commercial strategies.
As we get closer to the midpoint of our 2020 Vision our system remains resolutely focused on refreshing our achievements creating value for our customers maintaining strong partnerships with our bottling partners strategically investing for the future and expanding shareholder value.
As always we thank you for your interest and your investment in our company and for joining us on this call.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call with The Coca-Cola Company.
Audio playback is available via the company's website thecoca-colacompany.com.
You may now all disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2013 earnings results conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions).
Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I am joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer President of Coca-Cola International Steve Cahillane President of Coca-Cola Americas and Irial Finan President of our Bottling Investments Group will also be available for our Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the financial reports and information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Before we review this quarter's operating results I would like to take a moment to acknowledge the senseless events that took place in Boston yesterday.
We were deeply saddened by this news and our thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this horrible tragedy.
Now turning to this quarter's results.
We are pleased with our first quarter performance.
The great women and men of The Coca Cola Company Coca Cola system delivered solid performance results in line with our expectations.
On a global basis we once again gained value share.
We have now gained global value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for 23 consecutive quarters.
In spite of a challenging global economic times of the last few years our people and our system bottling partners are executing the right strategies to advance us further towards our 2020 vision.
Since the launch of our 2020 vision at the beginning of 2010 we have increased daily servings by more than 225 million we have lifted global volume and value share to the highest levels since 2003 and more than $48 billion have been added to the Coca-Cola Company's market capitalization.
Across the system we are continuing to invest together for a better tomorrow.
In fact we enter 2013 and the fourth year of our journey to 2020 from a position of real strength clearly focused and well on track to reach our goals and objectives and our global bottling system is healthier than ever before.
The strength of our brands and the promise of sustainable growth are fueling our bottlers' efforts to become more efficient improve capability and further strengthen execution.
We are working closely with our bottling partners around the world to rapidly realize opportunities to execute with precision and to continue winning at the point of sale.
We are innovating and investing in the health of our brand in our capabilities and in new opportunities for growth across the entire non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage landscape.
We are leading the industry dialogue around obesity and strengthening the sparkling category by bringing forward new packaging choices transparency in labeling and new sweetener solutions while also championing energy balance and promoting physical activity.
We are working across the golden triangle of government civil society and business to create real value and to make a lasting positive difference.
And more importantly we continue to generate shareowner value.
To that end in the first quarter of 2013 we grew worldwide volume by 4% cycling 5% from prior year and once again captured global non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage value share with volume and value share gains in core sparkling category.
Our global sparkling portfolio grew 3% led by brand Coca-Cola growth of 3% while Fanta grew 6% and Sprite grew 5%.
Sparkling brands contributed nearly two-thirds of our global volume growth.
Worldwide still beverage volume grew 6% in the quarter with growth across most still beverage categories including ready-to-drink tea juices and juice drinks as well as packaged water.
These gains enabled us to capture global still beverage volume and value share.
And immediate consumption volume also grew 3% with growth across both sparkling and still beverage.
As announced during our 2012 year-end earnings call we implemented a new organizational structure effective January 1<sup>st</sup> of this year that includes Coca-Cola Americas which began 2013 by growing volume 3% and Coca-Cola International which grew volume by 5%.
Moving now to operating groups I will start with North America where we remain resolutely focused on driving sustainable growth.
We are pleased to report that North America continued to build on three successive years of growth with 1% volume growth in the first quarter resulting in volume and value share gains.
We are winning by investing in our portfolio of preferred brands by executing with excellence at the point-of-sale and by creating efficiencies and synergies across our manufacturing sales and distribution networks.
Although sparkling volume was down by 1% in the quarter we achieved 3% sparkling price mix reflecting our focus on value creation.
Importantly brand Coca-Cola grew this quarter aided by double-digit growth in both mini cans and in our 1.25-liter package underscoring the strength of our flagship brand and the success of our occasion-based package architecture.
Coca-Cola also extended its favorite brand lead to over two times its closest competitor in North America.
Sparkling beverages gained volume and value share as marketing and execution are enabling us to win in the marketplace.
Still beverage volume grew 6% in the quarter cycling 6% from prior year.
Our portfolio of still beverage brands has now captured volume and value share for 21 of the past 23 quarters.
Our key brands grew strong double digits and captured volume and value share of the ready-to-drink tea category.
Growth was driven by Hones Tea at the premium end of the market the ongoing rollout of Fuze which is now available in 70% of total U.S.
supermarkets and continued Gold Peak growth.
As you may know we have built Gold Peak from scratch since launching it in 2006.
The brand has grown by double digits for 24 consecutive quarters and is rapidly on its way to becoming a $1 billion brand.
Our juice and juice drink portfolio grew 3% in the quarter gaining volume and value share simply was up 9% thanks to the addition of new flavors and the growth in Simply Single-Serve.
Our Minute Maid trademark grew 4% due to the expansion of Minute Maid punches as well as gains in the light segment of the chilled juice drink category.
North America water business grew 5% led by growth of DASANI which continues to maintain a price premium to its primary competitors.
Smart water maintained its streak delivering its 20th consecutive quarter of double digit growth.
Now energy portfolio delivered its 11th consecutive quarter of volume growth and gained volume and value share.
As announced earlier today we are taking a significant step towards our 2020 vision by commencing the implementation of a 21st century beverage partnership model in the United States.
The franchise system has always been the strength of the Coca Cola business globally and today we are accelerating the transformation of our U.S.
system in ways that will establish a clear path to help us achieve our 2020 vision.
In the coming months we will be collaborating with five of our bottling partners to implement a plan which will include the granting of exclusive territory rights and the sale of distribution assets with cold drink equipment.
In the near term production assets will remain with Coca Cola Refreshments which will facilitate future implementation of a national product supply system.
These actions are being taken ahead of our previously stated timeline.
The result will be further progress towards a more agile modern customer focused franchise business model unique to the United States.
We remain confident that we have the right strategies for North America and we are optimistic about the outlook for this important critical market despite the challenging competitive environment and macroeconomic backdrop.
As today's results indicate The Coca Cola Company's brand marketing commercial execution and category leadership efforts are all working together to enable us to sustainably win at the point of sale.
Turning now to Latin America.
We are building the business from a position of real strength having realized solid 4% volume growth in the quarter cycling 5%.
Sparkling beverages in Latin America grew 2% with brand Coca-Cola also up 2% enabling us to gain both volume and value share.
Still beverages across Latin America delivered double-digit growth gaining volume and value share thanks to growth across the portfolio including double digit growth for both Del Valle juices and juice drinks as well as POWERADE.
In Mexico brand Coca-Cola growth combined with high single-digit growth of our still brands helped drive overall volume growth of 3% in the quarter enabling us to capture volume and value share of nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
In Brazil where volume also grew 3% brand Coca-Cola delivered 2% growth while Fanta grew 8% and Del Valle delivered 15% growth enabling us to gain volume and value share in this important market.
The Latin Fanta business unit which stretches from Equador to Belize and encompasses the Caribbean grew volume by double-digits and trademark Coca-Cola expanded its leadership growing high single digits through consumer relevant propositions that include increasing availability of our 1.25 liter returnable glass bottle and expanding immediate consumption PET.
We continue to see growth opportunities across Latin America which is the company's largest operating group in terms of unit case volume and where we have gained value share in 21 of the last 23 quarters.
Moving now to the Pacific group.
We generated 3% overall volume growth cycling 9% from prior year led by high single digit growth in brand Coca-Cola.
At a country level volume in China grew by 1% cycling strong 9% growth.
Sparkling beverages grew high single digits while the juice and juice drinks business grew by double-digits following the introduction of Minute Maid Pulpy PET and Minute Maid Pulpy Mango.
This growth was partially offset by a decline in water volume as we cycled strong water growth.
These results reflect sequential improvements and are in line with expectations we shared during our year end call.
Importantly we believe that we will continue to realize sequential improvements through 2013.
At the same time we also believe that it is going to take a period of time for consumption to return to the growth levels of previous years.
Nevertheless we had every confidence in the long-term resilience of our China business and we remain optimistic about our long-term opportunities to generate robust growth in this region over time.
In Japan volume growth was 1% in line with expectations cycling 3% growth from prior year.
Sparkling growth was up mid single-digit led by trademark Coca-Cola and in particular Coca-Cola Zero up double digits driven by the successful Zero Limit national promotion.
Ayataka green tea and LOHAS water our newest $1 billion-dollar brand in Japan continued their double-digit growth and contributed to solid growth in the important convenience store channel.
Turning to India which as a reminder we are now reporting within the Pacific group we delivered high single-digit volume growth cycling strong double-digit growth from last year and we gained volume and value share in sparkling while also increasing our pricing.
Growth was led by brand Coca-Cola which grew a strong 30% in the quarter.
Thanks to a strong robust integrated marketing and communications' campaign and strong in-market execution.
In the first quarter alone we added over 250 000 incremental outlets in India as significant increased chilled availability for our brands.
Our still beverages in India grew mid-single digits cycling strong double-digit growth while gaining both volume and value share.
In concluding our update of the Pacific I would also like to recognize our continued strong performance in two exciting markets Thailand and South Korea.
In Thailand we are maintain double-digit volume growth while rapidly investing in additional two factories.
We are working in close alignment with our local bottling partners to further expand our leadership position in this important market.
In South Korea we are generating broad-based growth across a diverse portfolio of strong brands with sparkling beverages growing high-single digits in the quarter led by brand Coca-Cola up 11%.
Turning now to the Eurasia and Africa group we once again delivered double-digit volume growth growing 15% while maintaining share.
Brand Coca-Cola grew double digits bolstered by our award-winning Crazy for Good campaign.
Fanta Sprite and Coke Zero all generated double-digit growth as well.
Our still brand delivered double-digit growth led by Fuze Tea and the acquired volume related to the Aujan partnership.
Russia continued to deliver strong results outpacing the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry with high single-digit volume growth.
Growth was led by sparkling beverages where we gained share for the eighth consecutive quarter as brand Coca-Cola grew 15%.
Our still beverage portfolio gained volume and value share and Dobry juice continue its double-digit expansion.
One highlight I would like to mentioned with regard to Russia is our effort to deepen the emotional connection with the consumers by leveraging the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
Our sponsorship of these games and the Torch relay will combine the passion of the Olympics spirit and Coca-Cola in the minds of millions of Russians as the porch will pass through thousands of Russians house.
In fact our activation of the porch really is already driving real connections to our consumers as evidenced by the more than 77 000 Torch bearer nominations we have received during our latest consumer promotion.
Turning to our Central Asia business unit also continued a strong performance delivering double-digit growth in the quarter.
Prior to concluding my update on Eurasia and Africa I would like to note that the Middle East and North Africa business unit was recently awarded the company's Woodruff Cup.
This is our most prestigious operating award honoring the top performance business units in our worldwide business system.
Among other important accomplishments the Middle East and North Africa business unit achieve double-digit volume and operating income growth for 2012.
We celebrated an important milestone with our partners at Aujan this quarter as we toasted the billionth can of Rani juice produced since the start of our partnership.
Rani is the leading juice brand in the Middle East and a terrific compliment to our existing juices in Eurasia and Africa including Turkey which gained volume and value share for 10th consecutive quarter.
Turning now to Europe.
The economic environment clearly remains uncertain across this region as persistent high unemployment coupled with severe austerity measures are weighing on consumer sentiment and consumer spending.
In fact Nielson's latest global survey of consumer confidence and spending intentions indicate the consumer confidence fell in 20 of the 29 European markets in the fourth quarter of last year.
Nevertheless our volume was even in the quarter cycling 1% growth from prior year which is a significant sequential improvement from the fourth quarter of last year.
We grew volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages both sparkling beverages across the region including key markets like France Germany and Great Britain.
There were pockets of volume growth across Europe with Germany growing a healthy 3% the Nordic countries showing improvement and Great Britain returning to growth while gaining share due to strong integrated marketing campaigns and solid execution in the market place.
For the near future as European consumers remain cautious in their spending we will keep investing for the long-term health of our business.
These results from around the world underscore the laser focus that our system has on our strategic priorities as we advance further towards our 2020 vision.
Our five core strategic priorities are as follows.
First we must continue to grow sustainably and provide meaningful solutions that enhance the health and well-being of the communities we proudly serve.
Second we will win with Coca-Cola while actively promoting the brand and the category.
Third we must absolutely keep winning and executing with excellence at the point-of-sale.
Fourth we need to keep maximizing the value of our global beverage portfolio.
Sixth we will encourage and inspire our system and associates to deliver on our mission.
Looking back at the first quarter of 2013 we were also honored and humbled to receive several recognitions.
We were again ranked number four on Fortune's list of Most Admired Companies and named one of the Most Innovative Companies in the World by FastCompany.
Also one of the most meaningful recognitions for the Coca-Cola system came from Catalyst the leading nonprofit organization with a mission to expand opportunities for women in business.
We were honored to accept the 2013 Catalyst Award in recognition of our global women initiative.
This important initiative is focused on fuelling the advancement of women as dynamic leaders and entrepreneurs across the organization and also in communities throughout the world where we serve our customers and consumers.
Before moving on I want to revisit a complex societal issue that touches us all obesity.
Beginning last year The Coca-Cola Company took new steps to give consumers even more choices in packet sizes sweeteners and beverages including more low and no calories production while also providing clear nutritional information and by supporting fitness programs.
Coca-Cola has a rich heritage of being associated with exercise sports and active lifestyle.
Today we are using our marketing expertise and community connections to inform consumers about energy balance and to inspire more people to get moving.
We firmly believe the challenges of obesity are solvable.
The Coca-Cola system together with industry partners NGOs and government is committed to being part of the solution.
In closing I would like to reiterate that our brands are stronger than ever before.
We delivered solid performance results this quarter in line with our expectations while continuing to gain global value share.
Together with our global system bottling partners we are working diligently to unlock value to execute with precision and to continue gaining volume and value share.
We are leading the industry dialogue about obesity by bringing forward solutions adding transparency to dialog around calories and championing energy dollars and physical activity.
We are generating value for our shareowners as evidenced by the recently announced 10% increase in our annual dividend which is our 51<sup>st</sup> consecutive annual dividend increase.
Even so we remain constructively discontent as we seek to make the most of the growth opportunities we continue to see around the globe.
Please note that we are working each and every day to refresh the world inspire moments of happiness and optimism create value and make a meaningful difference in lives of our consumers our customers and in the communities that we proudly serve.
With that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
We delivered solid results this quarter underscoring once again that our company and global system are well positioned to execute our strategic plans and alignment with our 2020 vision.
Achieving such consistent performance during a time of ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty is a real testament to the strength of our global system and the investments we continue to make for long-term sustainable growth.
Before we get into the financial details of the quarter let me remind you that we closed the sale of 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines to Coca-Cola FEMSA in January of this year and therefore we no longer are consolidating the Philippines results.
We anticipate that this transaction along with the previously announced bottling merger in Brazil will have a 3% structural impact on our full year 2013 net revenues likewise our full year operating results should see a 1% structural impact.
However there should be a corresponding improvement to equity income to our share of the results of these operations moving forward.
As I shared in our 2012 year-end call we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results.
Moving now to our first quarter results our comparable earnings per share were $0.46 up 5% versus the prior year quarter despite currency headwinds of approximately 4%.
Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 5% despite the impact of two fewer selling days and the impact of certain structural items.
Currency was a 3% headwind on top on comparable operating income.
Comparable currency neutral net revenue grew 1% and grew 2% after adjusting for the impact of structural items.
After adjusting for the effects of two fewer selling days in the quarter unit case sales were in line with concentrate sales.
Price mix for the quarter was even cycling 3% in the prior year quarter and remember in the second quarter we will also be cycling 3% price mix.
However stated in our last earnings call we expect to earn low single-digit consolidated price mix for 2013 consistent with our long-term growth model.
We continue executing our occasion-based brand price package and channel strategies with precision around the world.
Our comparable gross margin was 61.5%.
This represents a slight improvement compared to the prior year primarily due to the impact of geographic mix the consolidation of the Philippines bottler and the impact of our foreign currency hedging program.
We expect the improvement in our gross margin to moderate over the remainder of the year due to a shift in geographic mix.
With regards to operating expense leverage we achieved three points of favorable operating leverage in the quarter despite the impact of two fewer selling days at the end of was primarily due to the deconsolidation of the Philippines bottler as well as the benefit from a reversal of expenses related to some of our long-term incentive plans.
This was partially offset by sustained strategic investments in our brand building activities around the world.
As we have shared before we continue to expect operating expense leverage to be even to slightly positive for the full year.
As you model our 2013 operating results and our corresponding expense leverage let me also remind everyone that the 2013 calendar will have one less day when compared to 2012 and based on our quarterly closing calendar as I said we had two less days this quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2012 and our fourth quarter of 2013 will have one more day when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Moving now to net interest income.
We came in at $14 million of income in this quarter ahead of our initial forecast.
We now expect net interest will be event to slightly positive for the remainder of the year.
Our underlying effective tax rate is 23.5%.
We expect this rate to remain unchanged through 2014.
Cash flow from operations decreased 3% primarily due to the impact of the two fewer selling days in the period and unfavorable impact from currency and an increase in the use of working capital in preparation for the peak season of our growing global business.
Looking ahead to the remainder of the year we expect our cash flow growth rate to be more in line with our earnings growth rate.
Turning to share repurchase.
Our net share repurchases during the quarter totaled approximately $1.1 billion.
This places us well on track to achieve the $3 billion to $3.5 billion range for full year 2013 that we communicate during our last earnings call.
As for currencies we remain fully hedged on the Euro Yen and Sterling for 2013 and into 2014 and we also have near term coverage in place with several other currencies.
After considering the hedged positions and current spot rates we expect currencies to be a 3% headwind for the second quarter and a 2% headwind for the full year.
As you have all seen the movement of Yen in recent months as mentioned we have hedged our Yen exposure for this year and into next year but we do believe that the weaker Yen will ultimately be beneficial for the Japanese economy and for our business.
In closing and as Muhtar shared earlier we are delivering on our strategic priorities and achieving real success.
We fully expect operating income to be in line with our long-term growth target for the full year.
Our global system is committed to investing together for a better tomorrow and our proven ability to achieve consistent quality results provides us with a confidence that together as a system we will successfully crack the code to sustainable growth to meet our 2020 vision goals.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Mr.
John you can continue with your question.
Sorry there is a lot of static.
As you look at the bottler consolidation piece is Spanish or Japanese bottler consolidation the beginning of the next wave of let's say a bottler-driven consolidation? And how much are you pushing this as opposed to letting the bottlers lead where the system is going? Hi John good morning.
This is Muhtar.
First I think its important to realize that there is not one model for the world.
There is many different models for the world.
As you can see what's happening.
This has been an exciting last several months with respect to the evolution actually continuous evolution of our franchise system.
We manage our business to create sustainable long-term value and evolution of our franchise system continues to play an absolutely critical role in that process.
So what you have seen recently the Contal merger in Japan the Brazil merger of three bottling partners creating a large Brazilian led bottling business the Iberian merger of seven bottling partners in Iberia the sale of the Philippines of the majority shares of the Philippines and the control to FEMSA and now the U.S.
the process the journey starting in the United States are all part of our vision our plan and to ensure that we can continue to deliver on the commitments we made for our vision.
In some cases they use partially our capital.
In some cases whether the sale of obviously we bring capital back into the Coca-Cola Company but all the time ensuring that our bottling business is fully suited with the needs of 21<sup>st</sup> century delivering what is necessary ahead of consumer expectations customer expectations and so not one-size-fits-all.
And in the case of the United States again we are pleased to report today that we have reached agreement in principle to start this journey.
All along since the first day we've closed the transaction of the Coca-Cola Refreshments I have always said there will be a meaningful role to invite partners back into the business.
When we were asked about the timing we've always said around the four-to-five year timeframe from the time we've closed -  the close of Coca-Cola Refreshments was you will recall back in the latter part of 2010 and we are well within that timeline and it's a continuous evolution and sometimes it will necessitate for us to use our own capital sometimes the mix and sometimes no capital and again not one-size-fits-all.
The U.S.
model is a very different but it is again a model that invites partners to serve with us passionately the communities that we operate in.
Great.
If I could just as a follow-up on that which would be as you look at the different options you gave for the U.S.
pieces here in terms of sub-bottler agreements asset sales swaps things like that is there some way to think about the financial impact as you do this? I mean this is a small piece of it.
How long does this timeframe take out as you sort of push these U.S.
pieces out? Thanks.
Yes.
I think we can't comment on the timing for the end game but all I can tell you is that we are intent on creating the evolution necessary for us to be able to serve both our large customers and small independent customers in the best possible way with our bottling partners.
Again we have always said right from the beginning and we are consistent to that that the U.S.
will be slightly different.
We want to create the best-in-class production optimum cost production system coast-to-coast from the east to the west.
That will be nationally managed.
We also want to create a national we managed a larger customer management system that will essentially have the responsibility to put together of 21st century customer plan with our large partners in the United States or at the same time invite partners to come in and be part of this new evolution in the United States.
It will take as long as it is necessary and that is not our focus; it's going to be about doing the right thing as quickly as possible as efficiently as possible and as effectively as possible and that's what we are going to be doing.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
A question for you Gary just on the on the operating leverage in the in the first quarter and maybe more specifically the gross margin.
If I understood it right this quarter would have been one of the highest in terms of the impact from commodity inflation and we also really had no positive benefit from price mix.
And as we kind of look out going forward right? We should get some benefit from price mix later in the year and maybe you some relief on commodity inflation.
So why would not there be maybe more leverage going through the year than we originally expected given the leverage you had in the first quarter? Yes Bryan thanks.
There are a couple of things to consider.
First is as I mentioned previously in the prepared remarks that we reversed some compensation accruals in the first quarter.
So that gave you more leverage in the quarter but you will not see that that’s more of one-time impact if you will.
So its more leveraged in the quarter.
The other significant piece is the currencies had an impact as well and currencies are moderate going out.
But the biggest thing will be geographic mix.
We would expect to see geographic mix changing throughout the year as we go through the year.
As that happens it will have an impact on gross margin and operating leverage.
So the geographic mix would be more negative going through the back half of the rest of the year? Yes that’s exactly right.
In fact think about North America.
Actually I would expect North America actually in the first quarter of this year North America's operating income on a recurring comparable basis was down 3% and it is down 3% primarily because of two fewer selling days.
So if you adjusted for those selling days it would have been positive.
But I would expect North America to actually improve versus where they were minus 3% but as they improve because it's a finished products business it is going to have a negative gross margin impact and there will be reduced leverage.
Okay so more growth from lower margin geographies going forward and that will affect that margin impact? That is what I was trying to say more in code than the prepared remarks.
All right thank you.
We normally don't think North America but that’s what it was.
Your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
I was hoping you can update on the competitive environment around the world both in China and Western Europe which have been hotspots recently.
Also just your thoughts around how you manage the pricing environment in the U.S.
Sparkling business in 2013 and beyond in light of the moderate commodity pressure and if that solid 3% sparkling growth we saw in Q1 can continues in the balance of the year? This is Muhtar.
We haven’t seen anything markedly different from previous quarters as far as the competitive environment is concerned.
China remains a very competitive environment.
Actually the whole world and again this is a competitive environment that is the mix of large international companies but also very much local companies in Asia in parts of Africa in the Middle East.
We also see a somewhat more rational pricing -particularly in Europe as well as other parts of the world in Latin America too.
So the way we see the environment is it will continue to be challenged from a consumer perspective.
Whether you are talking about Asia coming back or whether you are talking about consumer sentiment in Europe will continue to be volatile and mixed at best and therefore pricing is going to critical and therefore also ensuring leverage and ensuring productivity that can be generated out of operations for us to be able to continue to invest.
It's going to be critical.
But we are intent on continuing to invest in this environment.
I will let Steve Cahillane talk a little bit about how we manage the pricing environment in the United States (inaudible) Price mix 3% in terms of a leverage in pricing for sparkling beverages in the past quarter.
Thanks Muhtar.
We have seen a rational pricing environment in the United States over the course of a good period of time right now.
We would expect that to continue.
I have said many times that if commodities go down don’t look for us to reinvest that in price.
We have worked very hard to earn the price that we take in the marketplace.
We don’t have an affordability problem in the United States with our sparkling beverages.
We would love to continue to invest behind our brands.
We have got a terrific summer program for the Coca-Cola brand.
We have got an exciting new partnership with Taylor Swift around Diet Coke.
We will invest around activating those types of programs that continue to focus on one of our most important objective which is to continue to support development and drive our sparkling category inside the United States business.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Consumer Edge Research Good morning everybody.
I wanted to follow up on the U.S.
filing announcement.
Onto the production assets for the territories the five bottlers picked up.
Do you see these bottlers eventually contributing to manufacturing assets into a national production company to get at the cost savings opportunity that you talked about in the manufacturing side? And also would Coke be willing to let new partners bringing outside capital to help finance some of the additional territory sales given the size of the territory that Coke still holds onto in the U.S.? Thanks.
Hi Bill.
This is Muhtar.
Good morning.
I'd say to you that this is again we are at the beginning of this journey.
We have reached agreement in principle with these five U.S.
bottling partners.
It is very important that we did reach that agreement in principle and now we can actually ensure that we put all the details into motion and we can implement effectively.
We have always said production in the United States is critical to our success in achieving a optimum cost 21st century production system nationally manage coast-to-coast.
That is going to take place.
We've also said that managing large 30 or so of our largest customers in the United States as going to be done nationally.
That's also going to take place.
In terms of who else would be coming in can't comment on that in terms of what will happen and what form and architecture production is going to take place in terms of what our current bottlers own.
I can't comment on that.
All I can tell you and I can assure you that we are intent on ensuring that we make the necessary changes in the format and architecture production to achieve what I just said which is a coast-to-coast nationally run production system that generates the efficiencies synergies productivity that allow us to continue to win in the marketplace.
And again there may be a future where our partners in the United States take certain ownership in the national production.
I wouldn't rule that out also but it will be managed nationally from one point single point.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just had a couple of questions on North America.
First in terms of volume performance I think the macro data points and consumer data points have been a little bit choppy more recently.
So maybe if you can give us a little bit color just in terms of category of your performance immediate consumptions versus take home and so do the expectation as you get out into the back half of the year lapping up some of the transitory headwinds whether it's in payroll taxes or weather related if you expect volumes performance to improve? Then Gary just on the profitability in North America I know you talked about this a little bit but I look at first quarter you had 1% volumes growth 2% price mix and you did say profitability was up a little bit but why aren't we seeing the profitability really improve more meaningfully and sort of what drives the sequential acceleration in North America profitability going forward? Okay.
Judy I'll have Steve answer the first part of your question before Gary comes in and sheds some light on the question on profitability.
Steve? Yes.
Thanks Judy.
First quarter clearly had a lot of a noise in it.
We expected a benefit from Easter being in the first quarter.
It's never as big a benefit when it comes that early in the year.
Easter is always better when it comes later in April because of the warmer weather but obviously you referenced the weather.
We saw some very dramatic changes.
Last year we benefited from one of the hottest winters warmest winters in the United States and we cycled that with one of the coldest winters in the United States.
So clearly that had an effect and we saw any benefit from Easter really being washed away if you like by the poor weather.
There was clearly an effect in the payroll tax.
It's a little bit of art and science trying to pick apart what's weather and what's payroll tax.
We would figure about two thirds is probably weather-related and one-third of the slowdown is based on the economy.
We are go optimistic.
Guardedly optimistic that the consumers are coming back.
That the payroll tax and the economy is kind of a short-term need to get used to the discretionary impact that it has had.
So we remain optimistic that we have got the right programs in place that the economy is on the mend and we would expect continued good performance as we go out the next three quarters.
In terms of question of profitability I will turn it over to Gary.
Judy I would say a couple of things on profitability.
Its really kind of repeating what Steve just said.
If you take the first quarter and you throw in lousy weather payroll tax actually the price of gasoline what then does to your immediate consumption versus future consumption business is going to have an impact on your profitability.
Now if I go back to the answer I gave to Brian earlier though when I saw that geographic mix that is North America I would expect North America to be improving actually from the first quarter and from where we were.
Then North America also has this two fewer days.
Now I can tell you Steve has got a number from minus 3%.
I say it would have been positive.
Steve has got a number but you can calculate it several different ways as to what would the impact of the two days be.
We would all agree I think it is positive.
They would have been positive as to operating income line.
But you put all that together the weather by the way is as lousy as it has been and the impact on Steve's business has been given a lot of moisture to the Midwest for the drought for the corn crop.
So they look for commodities and we will see what happens there.
Payroll taxes consumers hopefully are starting to get used to it.
Gasoline prices looks like they are starting to trend down somewhat.
So I think there is some reason to be cautiously optimistic.
CCR continues to execute with excellence and continue to improve capability.
So I think the there are lots of reasons to be optimistic on North America.
Okay but from a profitability perspective though the bigger delta is really the mix shifting towards more immediate consumption as weather normalizes? Or is there a step up in cost savings or timing of marketing investments that help the profitability? Judy I would actually say the biggest impact on the first quarter North America was two less selling days by far and the whole company as well.
But by far the biggest impact was the two selling days.
Okay.
Judy I can answer this part of your question.
The secondary impact is clearly weather impacted food service and immediate consumption more than the take home channel.
So we would expect as weather moderates those profitable parts of our business will start to normalize as well.
But as Gary said two less selling days when you got the fixed cost assets that we have in the North American business is really quite significant.
Those extra two days are golden cases that are going out and when you lose those two days it obviously has a big impact.
Got it okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Good morning Muhtar Gary and team.
I would like to just understand Muhtar your vision again going back to the United States.
You talked a little bit about how manufacturing is going to evolve.
A little bit of understanding the benefits of margin the operations of food service your noncarbs and your CSCs into one production facility.
Just can that actually be done and are there synergies there? Then secondly do you feel strongly that your own people have to get the product to market from the plant or could you use a third-party such as assister? Yes Caroline I think first in terms of our capability in our system in the United States is I would say the best in the consumer products world in terms of how we go to market and how we can get the product from production facilities.
So I wouldn't like to comment on how we can improve that.
If there is a way for us to even improve and generate more productivity we will certainly look at it.
I think the most important thing though is that there is room to generate significant further synergies in production.
I think today I wouldn’t say that the United States production system after three years of having integrated Coca-Cola Refreshments it is where we needed to be and we need to continue on that roadmap to proceed towards a modern and best-in-class optimum cost production system coast-to-coast.
That will mean obviously a lot of changes that will mean building new plants that will mean combining some facilities but I would like to also comment in terms of hot-fill and aseptic versus sparkling beverage plants we will look at ensuring that we have the most modern most productive facilities in place.
I don't believe the answer is to combine all under one roof.
I think the answer is to combine many that are scattered across the country both in terms of still and sparkling separately into some consolidation process and I can't comment any further.
What I can tell you is that there is room for cost to come down there is room for efficiencies to increase and we will achieve all of those.
This is all in line with our 2020 vision.
We laid out a plan when we took over the business of Coca-Cola Enterprises we laid out a plan when I took over as the CEO back four and a half years ago and we are executing it meticulously and we are doing what we have said we would do and we are doing it ahead of time.
That's excellent.
I was just wondering in terms of getting shelf space you see a big opportunity in up and down the street and to get better pricing much as you've done in Lat-Am.
I'm often asked how you compete with all the new things that come in be it coconut water energy drinks.
I know you have some but are you convinced you can keep or improve shelf space for your carbonated soft drinks? Absolutely.
I think we can improve service levels.
I think we can improve execution inside the point of sale.
I think we can improve availability.
I think we can improve availability of cold drink.
I think we can improve how we serve independent and all of those things are going to be played out as we implement and execute this new strategy in the United States.
And I don't know Steve do you want to comment? No.
I agree completely and part of what we are doing with this new bottler arrangement focuses on that up and down the street where bottlers and CCR add the most value which is not only big customer sales but up and down the street execution and we have got also our venturing and emerging brands unit which you are familiar with which brings brands like Zico coconut water.
It brought Honest Tea.
So in that those spaces that you are talking about we are very much innovating we've got glaceau fruitwater which we just launched with great success a couple of weeks ago.
That's being executed not only in the large stores but importantly in the up and down the street foodservice on-premise accounts as well so we see that as a very important capability.
We see ourselves as having a competitive advantage there when it comes to not just shelf space but cold drink space and overall availability.
Yes.
And just to finally add on to that point Caroline the rest assured we are in an mode of evolution rapid evolution not just in the United Sates across the whole world and you will see us adapting reinventing how we go to market how we serve customers and also how we communicate with consumers very importantly.
Our brands are at an all time high in terms of health and we will continue again to evolve and bring out the best modes of communications with our consumers as well.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Yes.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Also a question on the U.S.
refranchising Muhtar or Gary you talk about this new beverage agreement being ultimately what's at Play here.
Could you speak a little bit to how you are thinking about that and the role of incidence-based pricing in that? Is it right to think that continues to have prominence in this new agreement? Any distinction you might draw between how stills and carbonates are treated as you move production more squarely to staying if you will at least for a little while inside Coca-Cola? Yes I think Mark we can't comment on the detail.
What we can say is that it will be a model that will align us fully with our bottling partners to do what is right in the marketplace and to focus on what is right in the marketplace a full alignment model and I think I can't just comment any further than that but you will see us executing better serving the customers better with a better production template as well as a customer service template.
Is it fair to think that other markets there is a fact pattern and experience set to draw in as you implement this newer form of agreement here in the U.S.? I think all of that will come into play best practices everywhere around the world.
I am certain that in four or five years' time many people will come into the United States to see the best practices as it used to be back in the 1980s when I used to bring new bottlers from Eastern Europe to see best practices in the United States at that time.
Fair enough.
Thanks Muhtar.
In closing I would like to thank Gary Ahmet Steve Irial and Jackson and to again say that we are pleased with our solid first quarter.
We are working as a system to unlock real value further strengthen execution and to win at the point-of-sale.
We are confident that a relentless focus on growth will enable us to build capable resilient optimized advantage and sustainable systems that are well-positioned to deliver results in 2013 and achieve our 2020 Vision.
As always we thank you for your interest and your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call with The Coca-Cola Company.
Audio playback is available via the company's website the coca-colacompany.com.
You may now all disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one person -- question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer President of Coca-Cola International; Steve Cahillane President of Coca-Cola Americas; and Irial Finan President of our Bottling Investments Group will also be available for the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures which should be made referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter volume performance came in below our expectations.
There was a confluence of factors that negatively lead to unusually weak second quarter volume results.
We continue to see further [unrest] in Europe slowing economic conditions across markets like Asia and Latin and social unrest in South East Europe Middle East and Brazil.
On top of this we were faced with unusually widespread wet and cold weather conditions across the multiple regions including North America and across Northern Europe and India all of which impacted the entire industry.
Consequently we grew global volume 1% in the second quarter leading to year to date volume growth of 3%.
Our comparable currency neutral operating income excluding structural grew 5% year to date.
And both in the quarter and year to date we gained global volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as in both sparkling and still beverages.
These gains included volume and value share increases in corresponding juice tea and water all of which underscored the real strength of our brands and the global reach of our system.
While we are not happy with our second quarter volume performance I can ensure you that we are intensely focused on improving those areas we can control to ensure better performance in the second half of the year.
Looking forward we remain absolutely confident in our 2020 vision and in our system’s ability to execute to grow and to create value all across the world.
As we’ve also said during these challenging global economic times there will occasionally be a bump in the road and the real strength of a business is how you deal with that bump.
In that respect together with our system bottling partners we continue to invest in our brand to strengthen our system for the future and to achieve our long term growth target.
The fact that we’ve outperformed the industry in this most recent quarter reinforces our belief that we are navigating these circumstances in a way that further strengthens our position of leadership within this extremely vibrant and resilient beverage industry.
Let me now provide you with an overview of our business performance by operating group starting with North America.
In North America volume declined 1% in the quarter as a 4% decline in sparkling beverages offset 5% volume growth in our still beverage portfolio.
Year-to-date volume in North America was even.
Prior to this quarter we consistently grew our business in North America for 12 consecutive quarters.
Unfortunately we experienced an extremely wet and cold second quarter with more rain in the US in June than we’ve seen in 50 years and 44% more precipitation than in June of last year.
This weather clearly impacted our entire industry’s volume growth.
Nevertheless we gained sparkling volume and value share both in the quarter and year to date reflecting the strength of our brand and we have robust marketing plans in place for the balance of 2013.
Still beverages gained volume and value share in the quarter making this the 24<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter that our still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained value share.
Our growth in still beverages this quarter was led by strong performance across the ready to drink tea and packaged water categories with brands such as Gold Peak smartwater and Dasani leading the way.
Further our volume and value share gains in the juices and juice drinks category were driven by solid growth for Simply and Minute Maid.
We are confident that we are on the right track in North America and we continue to work diligently with our bottlers as we advance our refranchising plan.
Indeed we saw a sequential improvement across the quarter in both the convenience retailer and quick service restaurant channel suggesting that the category trends are beginning to improve.
While we do recognize that we still have work to do in North America we remain laser focused on the strategy that we have shared with you.
First we are building a balanced portfolio of strong brands led by Coca-Cola and ensuring that our portfolio remains relevant to all generations of consumers and across all beverage occasions.
Second we are focused on translating this brand value into unsurpassed customer value by delivering best in class customer service each and every single day.
And third we’re continuously investing to build the capabilities we will need to sustain and to repeat our success.
These strategies are taking a real hold and we are building on them with the evolution of the United States franchise system announced earlier this year.
We therefore believe we are well positioned to continue outperforming the non-alcoholic ready to drink beverage industry for the balance of the year.
Turning now to Latin America we grew volume 2% in the quarter and 3% year to date.
Volume growth was a little softer in the quarter due to macroeconomic challenges in the few major markets specifically increase in consumer debt levels and higher food inflations along with concern over transportation fees contributed to some civil unrest and softer consumer spending in Brazil.
In Mexico weaker job creation and higher inflation impacted disposable income resulting in reduced retail sales.
These macro factors led to low single digit volume growth in Mexico while volume results in Brazil were even.
Given slower growth rate in personal consumption across the region we estimate that year-to-date beverage industry growth rates are currently 1.5 to 2 percentage points lower than the average of the last four years in Latin America.
In the second quarter we again gained volume share in Latin America in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages including both volume share gains in both sparkling and still beverages.
Moving to brand performance trademark Coca-Cola grew 1% during the quarter and maintained volume share within the sparkling beverages category.
These results reflect sustained marketing across the brand and the category.
Our other sparkling brands grew volume and value share in the quarter as we expanded Mundet in Mexico and Fanta in Colombia while reigniting marketing behind Schweppes in both Brazil and Argentina.
High single digit growth in still beverages led to volume share gains in the quarter.
These results were driven by the expansion of Fuze Tea continued strong performance of Del Valle portfolio and strong share gains in POWERADE thanks to superior execution of our programs.
We expect that our Latin America group will return to rates of volume growth that we have been more accustomed to in the last few years given current dynamics.
Continued marketing and bottling investments along with solid execution plans for the second half of the year will also contribute to this improvement.
I will bring my America’s update to close by congratulating the associates of Solar our new bottling partner in Brazil.
With the close of this transaction Solar forms the second largest operation in the Coca-Cola Brazil system serving over 70 million consumers.
Now turning to Coca-Cola International starting with Europe.
The weak economy continues to be a key factor affecting our performance in Europe especially in the southern regions where unemployment remains high while consumer confidence and expenditures remain low.
We’re seeing this continue to play out across most fast moving consumer goods category with several of those slowing between the first and second quarter.
Additionally historically wet and cold conditions across Europe including the coldest spring for Germany in 40 years further dampens already weak consumer sentiment and industry trends and contributed to volume declining 3% in Germany in the quarter.
While our European volume fell 4% in the quarter and then down 2% year-to-date we maintained the positive share momentum of the first quarter growing volume and value share across total nonalcoholic beverages and core sparkling beverages.
Across the continent our team and bottling partners are activating a number of marketing and trade execution program.
Among them is our new Share a Coke summer campaign launched across Europe in May and early signs are very positive.
In fact excitement surrounding the launch helps to partially offset the impact to weather on immediate consumption.
Our current European outlook remains cautious for the time being given ongoing macroeconomic conditions.
However we believe with our commitment to our brands and execution we should continue to gain share through the remainder of the year.
Moving on to our Eurasia and Africa group we achieved 9% volume growth in the quarter up double digits year-to-date.
All business units grew in the quarter with our Middle East and North Africa business unit as well as our Central East and West Africa business unit delivering double-digit growth.
For the quarter we strengthened our competitive position as we gain volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Local execution of our global marketing campaign along with continued highest pack innovation feels as good which was led by brand Coca-Cola up 7% in the quarter and 9% year-to-date.
Fanta and Sprite further contributed to core sparkling growth while our still brands grew double digits led by Rani Crystal and Fuze Tea.
Volume in Russia grew 3% with trademark Coca-Cola up double digits.
The successful sparkling promotion fueled Coca-Cola Fanta and Sprite growth as consumers collected under the cap points to obtain a limited edition set of limited Winter Olympic glassware.
In Spain and Portugal we are encouraged by the early integration efforts underway at efforts underway at Coca-Cola Iberian partners of Spain and Portugal.
We now have eight bottlers in those markets now operating as a single entity.
Shifting to our Pacific group we saw a volume growth of 2% and we maintained on our alcoholic ready to drink value share.
As is well publicized China’s economy has been slowed as this is now being soft consumer spending.
China’s first half retail sales was the slowest in 10 years while much of the growth in the non-alcoholic ready to drink beverage industry in the second quarter came from the value oriented water category.
As a result our volume performance in China remains softened with even for the quarter cycling 7% growth from prior year.
We command a leadership position in China in those (inaudible) and market share in sparkling as well as in juices and juice drink.
Sparkling volume grew 2% and our juices and juice drinks volume grew 7% year to date.
This is driven by a solid execution of key consumer and commercial initiatives and continue our new product innovation.
Looking forward we are keenly focused on adjusting our strategies and improving our business in China.
We recently strengthened our management team in that region adding to the already strong talents that we have in China and we are evolving our strategy reallocating resources across our brand portfolio and strengthening our consumer communication.
We anticipate a return to growth in our China business in the second half of the year.
In India volume grew low single digits in the quarter cycling 20% growth last year and importantly we again improved our volume and value share of total non-alcoholic beverages as well as sparkling and still beverages further strengthening our competitive position as trademark Coca-Cola grew by double digit.
Our business in Japan delivered 1% volume growth while approximately 4% growth last year and we are seeing sequential improvements on share trends as we are moving through the year.
Japan sparkling beverage volume grew 1% in the quarter supported by music team integrated marketing campaign such as the Zero Limit Campaign for Coca-Cola Zero up 13%.
Solid growth in tea and sport drinks of 3% and 7% respectively also contributed to this momentum.
Our juice and coffee performance was below our expectation and we are keenly focused on strategies as new launches to improve performance in the second half of the year.
I do want to acknowledge and congratulate our Coca-Cola East Japan associates on the successful completion of their merger and the launch of their company on July 1.
With this merger our system is building on a deep root and 50 year history of strong partnerships in Japan.
Coca-Cola East Japan will be well positioned to meet the business growth needs of our customers while also engaging and refreshing consumers of all ages and lifestyle.
Lastly our Asia’s business unit delivered results with 10% volume growth cycling double digit growth from the previous year as Thailand Indonesia and Vietnam all delivered strong double digit growth.
Going forward we expect to see an improvements in our Pacific group’s performance in the second half of the year.
On a global scale we were recently humbled by several accolades including rising to number five on Behrens list both world’s most respected companies and receiving the 2013 Creative Marketer of the Year Award at the Cannes Lions International Festival.
In my 35 years of experience in the Coca-Cola system I’ve learnt that we -- how we participate in one of the fastest growing and most dynamic industries in the world.
As I think about the second quarter nothing has changed in our ability to continue winning in this industry.
There is no question.
There are systems commitment to superior execution with stronger than ever before and our business fundamentals remain firmly intact.
Our leadership team is firmly in place and I am confident in our ability to capitalize on the abundant opportunities that lie ahead.
Given this we’re confident that we have the right strategy we have the right vision and the right initiatives to drive long-term sustainable growth and value.
And our focus on achieving our 2020 Vision is unwavering with current dynamics leading us to believe that our performance will be better in the back half of the year.
Why? Quite simply a few important reasons.
First our global brands are stronger than ever and we will continue to invest in them to capture long-term volume and value share.
Second we have an unparallel global business system focused on delivering on our 2020 Vision.
And third we have great confidence in our plans and we will sharpen our focus to ensure our resources are directed to those strategic priorities that will drive our business and strengthen key markets will return to grow.
The nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry is and has always -- and always will be a terrific terrific business.
We will continue to capitalize on our unprecedented global reach a broad portfolio of preferred premium brands and superior system execution.
And we continue to invest alongside our global bottling partners.
And we are well positioned to effectively manage our business for long-term profitable growth both in today’s economic environments and also as we look forward to our future.
With that let me now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Muhtar and good morning everyone.
As Muhtar has shared the industry clearly slowed a little due a number of factors that impacted various markets around the world.
The combination of these factors resulted in weaker volume performance in the second quarter than we expected.
At the same time we recognize the need for improved performance in certain markets.
Having said that we remain absolutely focused on doing the right things for the long-term health of the business and investing for long-term sustainable growth.
Increasing share during times like this further strengthens our position and can ultimately lead to accelerated growth as market conditions normalize.
And we continue to win on this front gaining both global volume and value share in both total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as volume and value share in global sparkling and still beverages.
So let’s review our results in more detail starting with the review of the key drivers of our financial performance.
Our second quarter and year-to-date financial performance reflects concentrate sales growth in line with unit case volume growth as well as a strong increase in direct marketing expenses as we sustain our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands.
From an operating segment standpoint our operating income growth this quarter reflected strong profit growth in Latin America and Eurasia and Africa as well as the continued solid financial performance of the Bottling Investments Group.
Operating income in North America and Pacific was even while Europe experienced a slight decline in profit.
Comparable currency neutral net revenue declined 1% this quarter and we were even year-to-date.
However excluding the impact of structural items primarily the sale of the Philippines bottler net revenues increased 2% both for the quarter and year-to-date.
We continue to earn pricing in the marketplace but at a consolidated level the positive pricing was offset by the impact of geographic mix resulting in even price mix for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Although geographic mix unfavorably impacted price mix at the consolidated level it contributed to the improvement of our gross margin in the quarter and year-to-date.
Our comparable gross margin was 61.2%.
This represents a slight improvement compared to the prior year primarily due to the impact of geographic mix structural items and our foreign currency hedging program.
As we shared in our first-quarter earnings call we expect our gross margin to moderate somewhat over the remainder of this year primarily due to a shift in geographic mix.
Excluding the impact of structural items we achieved 2 points of favorable operating expense leverage for both the quarter and year-to-date and we now expect to achieve low single-digit operating expense leverage for the full year.
On comparable currency neutral operating income it was up 4% this quarter and year-to-date.
Excluding the impact of structural items operating income grew 5% year to date.
On a comparable basis the impact of currency was a 3% headwind on this quarter’s operating income results.
And based on our hedge positions current spot rate and the cycling of our prior year rates we expect currencies to be a 4% headwind on our operating income for the third quarter and full year.
Below the line we benefited from an increase in net interest income and improved tax rate and fewer shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchase program.
We expect net interest income in the second half of the year to be relatively in line with comparable net interest income year-to-date.
Additionally we now expect our full year tax rate to be 23% and we expect to hold this rate through 2014.
Comparable earnings-per-share grew 4% in the second quarter despite currency headwinds of approximately 2%.
Year-to-date comparable earnings-per-share also grew 4% despite currency headwinds of approximately 4% as well as the impact of two fewer selling days.
We continue to generate a strong 4 billion from cash from operations year-to-date providing a significant financial flexibility.
As I have shared with you over the years we redeploy our cash flows utilizing a consistent and disciplined framework.
First is to reinvest back into the business and to strengthen our global system.
Secondly to continue to expand our portfolio and capabilities through bolt-on acquisitions and partnerships.
Third continue to return cash to shareholders through our dividends and we increased our dividend 10% in 2013 our 51<sup>st</sup> consecutive year of dividend increases.
And lastly repurchase shares year-to-date our net share repurchases totaled $2 billion and we continue to expect full year share repurchase to be between 3 billion and 3.5 billion.
As you model our 2013 operating results let me again remind you that the steps we’ve taken along with our bottling partners to strengthen our global system will have a structural impact on our operating results over the remainder of the year.
As you are aware we closed the transaction in the Philippines earlier this year and the merger of our bottling partners in Brazil and Japan recently closed.
As I have shared in our 2012 year-end call we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results.
However these transactions will impact various line items within our P&amp;L.
We anticipate that these transactions will have a 3% structural impact on our full year 2013 net revenues.
Likewise our full year operating income results should see a 1% structural impact.
However there should be a corresponding improvement in our equity income to account for our share of the results of these operations moving forward.
Additionally the structural impact from these transactions will be larger in the second half due to the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations beginning in the third quarter.
In closing we delivered solid financial performance for the first two quarters of 2013 and we expect to continue our solid financial performance during the second half of this year.
Our company and our system are well-positioned to capitalize on the real opportunities for growth.
We remain very confident as we continue to win in the marketplace with volume and value share.
We continue to deliver solid financial results.
We continue to innovate and invest in our brands.
Our global system continues to get stronger.
And we are best positioned to continue factoring growth in the dynamic nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry.
Operator we are now ready for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question today is from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning everybody.
Muhtar I was hoping if you could step around the world and dive a little bit deeper in the certain markets and regions to help us separate out the impact of non-recurring factors that hit your second quarter versus any macro-related factors that can continue to pressure the business in the second half.
You had mentioned macro factors in Brazil Mexico Europe and China.
Will those continue to be as big an impact in the second half of the second quarter and if not why and then maybe you can help quantify maybe what you think the weather-related impact was in the second quarter? Hi Bill.
Thanks.
I think overall both from in Europe United States India and some other parts we did have a pretty significant impact from weather unusual weather monsoons coming very early in India as you probably all read many thousands missing in flooding worst flooding since the Tsunami back 10 years ago.
And in Europe also Central Europe Germany all the issues around the river beds rising and flooding and very heavy wet conditions.
So we did yeah have impact both from a consumer sentiment both from a mobility sentiment in the United States also and both also from just pure in some cases distribution issues that hindered our performance.
And as you know when we lose a sale that does not recur any more we lost it that day.
And so and also in some cases we were cycling very unusually warm and favorable weather conditions from prior years in some cases.
Like India last year the monsoons actually started later that gave us a 20% growth in India unusual for the second quarter in India usually the first half in India is always less than the second half in India because of the anomalies of the weather.
So yeah and then macro conditions we all have felt it in social issues in Southeast Europe the demonstrations across the Middle East and then more recently in Brazil.
But we feel confident both in terms of looking at our plans in place looking at current dynamics at both Brazil will have a better second half.
China will have a better second half Russia will have a better second half and certainly better quarters than this last quarter where we grew volume 3% overall Mexico as well as India.
So while we continue to invest in our brands our brands are stronger than ever before.
We have taken market share our system is stronger.
Hence all these key markets we believe will perform better in the second half.
In fact as I said we have seen this -- we always know that the second half in a country like India is significantly better than the first half.
In any case if you look back at our performance over last few years.
So and then in the United States I think we’ve got very robust plans to return back to growth.
So I -- we feel pretty confident that this was a confluence of events that happened all at the same time the portfolio effect of our global business did not work in our favor in this particular case in the second quarter.
And I feel -- and my colleagues feel and our bottlers feel very confident.
I have been across many markets recently.
I have traveled to China Japan Thailand Myanmar many other parts of Asia.
I have been in the Southeast Europe.
I have been in France and all in the last sort of four-five weeks.
And I feel that we will look towards definitely a better quarter volumetrically.
And again we can talk to you about how we feel about the financial numbers too later in the call.
And I can ask Gary to reflect on that too in terms of the second half.
You want to -- Gary? Sure.
Well let me continue on then versus the volume.
On the second half on the P&amp;L I think we had a very solid first half.
We would expect to have a solid second half of the year as well.
We have said there’d bumps along the road the industry had one and obviously it slowed but we continue to take share and we feel very confident about the second half.
As we look at the second half financial results I think we will be very close to our long-term growth targets particularly in volume and earnings per share should be coming back in line with what we would all have been expecting at the first of this year.
I’d just add Bill that I think this is more an anomaly.
We should not see this as a trend or a systemic issue and that is simply how I believe one should think about it.
And again I can ask Steve and Ahmet to reflect upon how they see the second half from their vantage point in both Americas and international maybe Steve you can start.
Sure thanks Muhtar.
Starting with Latin America Muhtar said it well we saw things in Brazil that we hadn’t seen before the economy slowed there were social unrest.
It didn’t last very long things are slowly getting back to normal and we expect a better performance sequentially as we progress through the year in Brazil and in Mexico.
In Latin center and south Latin we’ve seen very good results high single digit result continues.
So there is a lot still going very well that continue to go well in Latin America and Brazil and Mexico getting back to what we would expect to see on a normal basis.
In North America Muhtar said it we don't like to talk about the weather but the first half of last year saw unusually good weather conditions.
We had a warm weather we had dry weather coming out of winter and going into spring.
This year in North America we had some of the worst weather and you’ve all seen it it’s been very wet it's been very cold it’s been historically wet and cold which obviously impacts our business.
On top of that we had the payroll tax effects which started at the beginning of the year which affects lower income households obviously much more affects their disposable income their ability to spend we saw late payroll tax -- late payroll or tax refund coming into the marketplace.
But as we look forward we expect the weather patterns to obviously normalize.
The weather will not continue to be a factor in a country as big as the United States like it’s been and from an economic standpoint people are used to the payroll tax now.
They’ve had four to five months to moderate their household budget to get used to it.
The refunds obviously is back in the marketplace and we’re already starting to see better trends in QSR better trends in convenience retail better trends across our business.
So we look forward to the second half of the year across the Americas much more favorably than the first half Muhtar used the word anomaly I think especially an anomaly in North America and we see ourselves coming out of that.
Thanks Steve thanks Muhtar.
Yeah just to build further on Muhtar’s comments I will start with India that’s definitely completely weather-related.
All our investments in the route to market coolers and capabilities will continue to deliver the kind of levels that we’re used to having from India in the rest of the year.
So we’re quite comfortable on that.
On China there were probably impacts of -- as you hear the continuing slowdown in macro levels as well as there were some weather impacts.
But we do expect volume to return for a number of reasons.
First of all China is a country with very very low per capitas.
I have been there a number of times in the last three four months and we have been working on evolving our strategy with better OBPPC more price points and more packs as well as improving our capability.
As Muhtar mentioned we have recently strengthened our management team there and I am very confident that in the second half of the year we’re going to start returning to growth in China maybe not at the levels of double-digit that you might have been seeing but we’ll certainly be looking to returning to growth in China.
Now the other anomaly in the international results was Europe.
I can comfortably say that a very very big part of that 4% decline was driven by unseasonable weather as it has already been mentioned.
It shows the strength of our system that we were able to gain volume and value share in both sparkling and NARTD and as we see whether normalizing we again look forward to coming back to our normal range of growth in Europe.
The rest of international territories such as EAG continue to deliver the historical growth rate.
And Bill this is Gary.
Just add one or two other quick data points as well.
When we talk about 1% volume I think you have to wonder is that a weak one or a strong one.
Let me just assure you it’s as strong as it can be and still be 1%.
So that’s number one.
The other thing is we talk about some of these anomalies in some of these markets.
One other things that give me some confidence as well because there has been a lot of discussion about what’s happening with the emerging markets and all around the world with the slowdown from China et cetera.
But we’ve always talked about the markets where the per capita consumption is less than $150 has always been a real strength of ours.
Well again even in the second quarter if you look at those markets under $150 and exclude China and India which we’ve just discussed separately if you excluded those our volume in those markets was plus 7% in the second quarter so it still shows underlying strength of the market in those emerging markets.
Great.
Thanks for the comprehensive answers.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Gary I just want to ask a clarification about the back half of the year.
Your commentary on the financials it sounds like you are saying you are going to get to that level in the back half of the year not the back half of the year will get you to the long-term algorithm for the full year.
At least that’s how I interpreted it can you just sort of clarify that? Yeah John.
Thanks for the question.
Here is how we’d say we are actually very close in the first half of the year.
Year-to-date if you look at operating income I think year-to-date ex-structural currency neutral is plus 5% and our volume is plus 3%.
So we are not that far away.
So our view would be that we should be and that in fact year-to-date earnings per share ex-currency is 8% rounds up to 8%.
So we’re not that far away in the first half.
That’s why I was saying solid results and when I say solid I think you followed us long enough.
We like to be at the top end of ranges and not at the bottom end of ranges.
Unfortunately we are at bottom end right now but that’s the world we are dealing with.
But we feel very good about the second half.
Okay.
John this is Muhtar.
Just one point that I can add to that is the following.
It’s customary sometimes that when in the kind of businesses that we are in when you have a blip in your volume because of a confluence of events some of which are -- was not in your control.
The first thing you do is go out and cut marketing and I think if you look at our numbers we have continued to invest aggressively in our brand through the second quarter through the first -- in the first half and as you know every investment and marketing does not pay back in that quarter it pays back in future quarters.
And therefore we are confident there was a share gain.
We are confident with the strength of our brands we are confident about the metrics on our brands both sparkling and stills across the world.
We are confident in our bottling partners’ investment plan that are taking place in the second quarter that we can continue our momentum going into the second half of the year and also improve on it volumetrically but also continue with our mission to achieve our 2020 Vision through the next years ahead.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Then my actual question here was Gary you’ve got positive price mix in the vast I think in every region this quarter with the exception of specific I think in yet it’s not sort of going up to full positive price mix here.
How do we view the regional price mix versus the geographic offset and how does this fit into your long-term algorithm because it’s seems like this is something that’s most likely going to continue to be a notable overhang? Thanks.
Okay.
John first I want to compliment on your creativity with that first question and here is a real question anyway.
It’s great question actually.
And the first thing I would say around pricing is we believe strongly that we have premium brands and our brand should commend a premium in the market and they do commend a premium across the world.
Number one we're seeing pricing is rational and within the industry we think pricing is rational particularly in the United States.
But if you look at price mix and I am going to go year to date but the second quarter is essentially the same thing.
If you look at price mix price mix year-to-date is even but within that you've got positive pricing and you’ve got negative geographic mix.
So year to date consolidated we actually have positive 1% pricing.
If you look at it by region year-to-date North America has positive pricing up 1%.
Eurasia and Africa have positive piping up 8% Europe has -- looks like positive pricing up 2% although I will tell you a lot of that is because of Innocent and our acquisition of the Innocent so absent Innocent Europe is closer to flat.
Latin America is positive 8 points of pricing year to date.
Pacific is even and Bottling Investments group is plus 2 as well.
So we’re actually getting very nice positive pricing as well as category mix brand mix channel mix.
All of those things are working.
What’s happening to us and where the dent comes in if you will is that we got negative geographic mix.
So we’ve got significant negative geographic mix across many of those regions which brings us back to even when you put price and geography together overall at the consolidated level.
As I have often said geographic mix would -- is always going to be probably negative because you're going to expect those emerging market countries to be growing faster than the developed market countries and you got better pricing in the developed market countries.
What amplified a little bit this quarter particularly perfectly was the result in Europe that we talked about and North America being coming at even where they were.
So you put all that together we’re actually getting the kind of pricing we would expect to be getting in the market.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to go back to the second half expectations and clearly you can’t control the macros and the weather.
But I just like to hear a little bit more specifically on some of the actions that you're doing to improve the volume performance particularly markets like China where there is the macro issue but there is also competitive issue there’s also portfolio issues just in terms of not participating in some of the fast growth segments.
So can you just talk about how you’re thinking about marketing investments how you’re thinking about your portfolio? Can you accelerate price pack architecture strategy more aggressively to really get the volume performance even if the macros don’t come back and the weather continues to be challenging? Judy let me just take on that and I will ask Ahmet Bozer to comment.
But I think what we have said again is that it was a coming together of many events that usually don’t come together all the time.
I mean -- we have performed overall globally at rates that are much more commensurate to what you have been used to in the last three four years.
Despite the fact that we’ve had issues some of these issues happening to us from quarter to quarter.
But you haven’t felt them because -- because of the fact that the portfolio works.
In this time you have the issues in Latin America in the two key markets Brazil and Mexico on slowing down and also consumer spending being impacted because of the Brazilian crunch in consumer credit that was taken away from the consumers.
And generally the consumer spending went away and then you also had China -- the issues in China that was -- consumer spending is actually much below GDP levels and that’s documented across the macro numbers in China as well as the weather issues related to India and also other issues coming together in North America where it went for the first time in 12 quarters from a plus to a negative which we don't expect.
All of these things we don't expect to continue at the same time.
Some of these things may still continue to impact them.
Therefore the portfolio will work.
Now related -- specific to the China.
We are participating in two great categories in China and where the leaders which is sparkling and juices those categories we’ve grown in.
And they are adding tremendous value to our portfolio and to our business in China.
We have also as we said retargeting all our efforts in China refocusing all our efforts.
Yeah there is a different competitive landscape.
We feel that actually that has not been the issue for us.
The main issue for us is to ensure that we can continue to distribute in outlying areas in China that we have had some issues and we’re correcting those and also that our marketing and working which we feel definitely our brands are stronger.
Our innovation pipeline is working in terms of what we are providing to the consumer also in terms of packaging.
And we feel that our confidence that those two categories -- playing in those two categories and then also innovating across some other categories like dairy is going to create the growth and the value for us starting in the second quarter but also continuing.
And we also feel confident that the Chinese leadership the new Chinese leadership are going to ensure that they take the right actions and we’re seeing that to reposition and transform the economy without creating a major bump as they transform the economy from a purely export economy to a more balanced economy with also consumer spending.
And both deputy prime -- Vice Premier Yang in charge of the economy as well as the new team we feel confident have the plans in place to ensure that that takes place.
So again Ahmet you can reflect more on that as well as any other markets you want to.
Yeah.
Thanks Muhtar.
Thanks Judy for the question.
A couple of messages here Judy message number one is that economy may be down but the globe prospects in China even in the short term is there simply because of the very low level of capitals and strength of our system.
Plan number two if you look at all the competitors in China nobody really participate in all the categories.
All the players have one or two categories that they are strong in.
And then they drive their businesses through those categories and maybe expand into others.
Our position is the same.
So our strategy basically first of all we definitely can do better in the categories that we already exist such as sparkling.
So to give you some specific actions we’re taking to do that.
I have highlighted the [LBTC] and that’s actually accelerated.
We have pilots running on various multi-serve and single serve packages for different price points in different parts of China.
And as those things roll out of the pilot we’ll be rolling some of them nationally.
So those are already in a way in the market and they will be accelerated into the second quarter.
We’ve also re-looked at our communication strategies and we’re going to be communicating more intensely on the intrinsics of our products as well as extrinsics.
You might have heard about our nickname promotions that the similar promotion to the Share a Coke promotion around the world outset which is getting incredibly positive reaction from the consumer.
And all the other things of improving our route to markets et cetera those are all under way and we’re very confident that that’s going to give us our strength in sparkling.
Now we also play in juices as you know and as Muhtar mentioned we’re the number one player there.
We are refocusing our efforts back around Pulpy.
And we’re just looking at an extension of that into mango which is getting very strong consumer reaction.
So as we consolidate our efforts behind that you would see a continued increase.
Now obviously we’re not only focused on just our existing categories we have a pretty successful brand in Super Milky Pulpy which is a value-added dairy.
And we’re beginning to increase our focus on that.
And we’re getting high single digits growth of that brand.
And we are building our innovation pipeline for the future.
So it’s a fairly robust strategy and yeah under lower economic environment we might have lower growth rates than what you’re used to.
But we are ever strengthening our position in China to capitalize on this market for not just immediate future but to very long term.
We have Irial also which oversees bottling investment group.
And as you know we are one of the three system players in China in terms of bottling maybe Irial you can comment on what you are seeing down very close to the ground.
Yeah.
Judy good morning.
And just to build on something Muhtar said earlier which is around investment and I will tell you from a bottling perspective that we continue to invest heavily in the market and particularly in our execution capability and route to market capability and critically in developing the talent to be successful in the next years ahead.
So when you [ask all] today we vitalize marketing strategies OBPPC I actually feel very confident about the future.
Yes Yes we may have bumps along the way but our business is growing -- our challenge is to grow healthy long term business and I think from a bottling perspective we’re really putting in place the infrastructure and capability to really drive a success for the future and -- that’s basically where I leave at.
Yeah what I would just say finally is I wouldn’t read anything more in this than what it is.
As Gary said earlier we were fractionally away from rounding up to 2 and we could -- it would not have been hard for us to do something which would not be right for this business and take the volume up to 3 and selling low cheap product.
That is not what we are about.
We are about investing we are about doing the right things for this business and we are about -- and I have always said there may be bump along the road and at one bump along that we have grown this business consistently in line every year on an annual basis since 2008 on our way to our 2020 vision in the range and the upper range of our long-term growth plan despite very very challenging macroeconomic conditions and that is going to happen in 2013 also.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Just two quick questions what are the trends like recently? It seems like you’re pretty bullish in the back half.
So as you exited June and got into July it looks like some of the weather normalized.
So what are you seeing more recently? And then kind of minutia but the big margin decline percentage year over year in Europe what’s the primary driver of that? Yeah let me just comment on what you just said.
We are not -- this is not about managing on a day -- yet we manage this business on an hourly basis so it’s not I think healthy to comment on what has happened in the last two weeks.
Yes of course we expect the weather to normalize.
As you -- or whoever is in the Northeast now and whoever was in the West Coast of the United States in the last 10 days you know that weather -- it has -- it does normalize.
Matter of fact that’s the probability and statistics.
So it just happened all in a very short period of time where everything was negative in many major markets.
And it will normalize and that’s what we are saying part of what we are saying.
So I have every confidence that -- the normalized conditions as I said we will again -- 2013 will be another year when volume will grow at the range of the long term growth model.
As far as the margins are concerned I will turn it over to Gary in terms of the margin is concerned what you mentioned in terms of the margin numbers in Europe.
Yeah in Europe its structural anomaly it’s actually Innocent.
So when the juice business juice having lower margin when it came in that’s what changed the margin.
Just nothing more than that.
I got you.
But so they should be down going forward though because of that -- because of Innocent is now fully consolidated? Yes.
And that’s actually the flip side if you will of what I said when I was answering John’s question that if you look at the price inside of price mix in Europe it’s actually plus two but it’s really Innocent giving us a lift on price but it gives us opposite effect on the margin.
So it’s something like a dollar margin perspective it’s almost neutral but the percentage has changed because of the price? Yes exactly right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Gary just a question for you related to share repurchases.
With the stock the way it's performed in the second quarter did you accelerate or do anything different in terms of timing of maybe pulling forward share repurchases? And then I mean the business right now is kind of bouncing around the low end of your algorithm and the stock is kind of bouncing around in a pretty tight range here recently.
So is there any consideration to maybe even buying back more stock than you originally planned just because you’ve got an opportunity to buy it here at around the $40 level? Yeah.
Great question Bryan.
Well first you’ll see that we did accelerate purchases in the first half of the year.
As I said if our annual target was in the $3 billion to $3.5 billion range and we actually have repurchased $2 billion in the first half we did exactly what you said and we accelerated in the first half of the year.
Where we are right now is we’re sticking with the annual target which we originally set at $3 billion to $3.5 billion.
And I just tell you we’ll give you an update on that at the end of the third quarter.
Okay.
But not out of the realm of possibility that you could go higher if you chose to… I have learnt to never say never to anything.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
Muhtar or Gary question on the gross margin evolution.
I think I don’t want to put words in your mouth but it seems like one of the silver linings here is that the price pack architecture work you’ve been doing over several years has allowed you to put up a pretty decent gross margin number and offset some of the corresponding earnings discipline that comes from the revenues being what they were in the quarter.
If that is a fair assessment can you give us a bit of an update on what’s going on in terms of innovation not in terms of the price the pack but in terms of what’s really in the bottle because that seems to be one of the problems you are facing kind of from a larger share performance absolute NARTD performance perspective? Okay.
Perhaps Mark let me take the margin question and then we can come back to the innovation question.
But this is actually -- let me get back into actually what I talked about price mix and margins when I was talking about (inaudible).
The same thing applies actually at a higher level for the total company.
So what we’ve got is very positive pricing and you’re seeing that and that being offset by geographic mix.
But what you’re seeing is when an operation like North America is minus one in the quarter that actually -- this is counter intuitive but it actually improves margins okay because North America having the finished product business has lower margins.
So our expectation is number one to continue to get positive pricing and we’re going to be rational in pricing and we intend to say premium as I said earlier.
But in addition to that we expect North America’s performance to improve in the second half of the year which will actually put pressure on margins which is why we said earlier that we would expect gross margins to moderate over the second half of the year.
And it’s really the geographic mix of where the income is coming from.
Does that … It does yeah but absolutely the geographic headwind is where at it is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean also on innovation I think as we’ve said before we don’t look at innovation only as ingredients.
We look at it as packaging ingredients equipment even in terms of marketing social media the brand price pack channel architecture occasion architecture.
All of that is working for us and also in terms of our new campaign to be part of the solution around the world working closely with local governments national governments working with Government of Mexico working with Mayors in Chicago and San Antonio other parts of the United States in different states in Atlanta.
You can look at the patents that we’ve been filing off recent.
So we are working and freestyle and the next generation of what is behind -- what’s coming next after that.
We are working on a host of new innovation.
So also ingredients continue to work with our partnerships across the world in different incubators around the world.
The best we always believe here in the Coca-Cola Company the best ideas are outside.
So the plant bottle came from the outside from one of the incubators in India.
Many new ideas are coming from different incubators in Israel or in China or in Japan or in Latin America.
We have many -- we have substantial partnerships from here with the University of Georgia to across many institutions around the world in Techno Parks.
So yeah we are very active and we are content that we have the right pipeline and maybe I can ask Steve to reflect on from just a sort of North America and Americas perspective.
Yeah.
Thanks Muhtar.
From a -- starting with the Latin America perspective we have got Coca-Cola Light which we are picking up in Argentina which we’re excited about watching the prospects of that.
We are doing some terrific innovation around our I Lohas platform in juices in Latin American as well as in North America we have launched Fruitwater brand new product off to a very good start.
Powerade Zero drops have joined Dasani drops is a very exciting innovation.
(Inaudible) active which is a fusion between sports drink and energy kicked off in April again off to a very good start.
From a packaging perspective we continue to innovate around our price-package architecture.
We’ve just launched 16 ounce sparkling IT cans in our major packages.
We have got Taylor Swift slim cans coming into the marketplace.
We have got 19.2 ounce sparkling cans coming into the marketplace again lots of excitement around the packaging innovation.
In terms of some marketing innovation we have got Coke Zero which is going to be launched in college game day this fall which we are very excited about.
We have got Cappy Free Coke Zero coming into the marketplace.
We feel very good about that really building out the Coke Zero platform as an all-day brand.
So we have got lots in the marketplace and lots more coming into the marketplace and it builds on one of Muhtar's earlier points that throughout this rough period of time we have continued our marketing pressure.
We continued our marketing investment.
We have not cut it we have increased it and it allows us to continue to innovate and bring new innovation into the marketplace.
That's helpful.
If I could simply follow up on the subject of a stevia-based sweetener in the brand on the door so to speak Coca-Cola we have seen what you have said recently about globally ticking down the portion of your volume that is in the full cal portion of your business.
Should we infer here that there is an increased resolve to use organic sweeteners against the main brand here and there is some optimism globally for that potential? Yeah.
I’ll just comment on that that I think it is all about ensuring that you provide the right portions at the right time for the right consumers in the right environment.
And we -- I think that you should read that we have an increased resolve to use any specific ingredient.
It is all about ensuring that we do have viable light and low-calorie versions for everyone of our major brands available to the consumer ensure that we pack label transparently ensure that we have active lifestyle programs as per all our global commitments and ensure that we have a responsible marketing.
That's our -- those are full commitment.
And our business we have said many times is about brand.
Today we have $16 billion brands they are growing.
We have in the pipeline another 19 brands that are bigger than $750 million in revenue and less than a $1 billion.
Those all are going to become billion dollar brands in the next increment of time because they are growing and we are confident that we will have multiple billion -- more billion dollar brands than we have today.
And I think that is what this business is all about adding value through brands to our system and I’m confident that you will see us add many more billion dollar brands to our roster in the near future.
Great.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hi guys.
So I think the general theme of my couple of question is really we are all trying to figure out which is what's going to get better from here and why and not only in terms of volume but also in terms of some of the other key drivers of profitability.
So if I may my first question is around North America and although you say in the press release you remain committed to rationale pricing price mix is only at 1% and I guess you think volumes would have been down more than negative 4% if you have taken more than 1% pricing.
So taking 2% to 3% pricing or can we hope for that part of the business the pricing in North America improving going forward? And as a follow up to that and a completely different per cap market like China moving up to Ahmet point second ago.
I just want to get a better sense of if evolving a strategy has anything to do with increased price promotion as well as it sometimes does with some companies? Steve do you want… Yeah.
Thanks Ali.
I’ll start.
In terms of pricing we’ve always said that our pricing strategy in North America is consumer based and it continues to be consumer based.
We captured if you look at Nielsen we captured very good pricing across our portfolio in North America.
We think it was an appropriate amount of pricing by channel.
The unfortunate 4% volume decline was as we said had a lot more to do with weather and the economy at least 60% to 70% having to do with a one-time really poor weather events.
So we didn’t put more price in the marketplace to try and chase volume that wasn’t there.
We put appropriate price increases in the marketplace and we maintained our margins and we maintained our price strategy going forward.
And we continue to bring new products and new packages into the marketplace to help our whole architecture achieve the type of pricing that we deserve.
And we have given some examples of this in the past and a good one is our 1.25 liter which continues to be very successful a third of the 1.25 liter volume is in fact incremental volumes.
So it's good in of itself but it has also allowed us if you look at our 2 liter pricing over the course of the past 12 15 months we are out of the $0.99 price promotion for 2 liter and has been for quite some time.
So we are not going to we are not going to put too much price in the marketplace.
We take appropriate price based on what the consumer and what is right for the consumer and what is right for the customer and we fully expect that based on the price plans we have in place for the back half of the year based on the innovations we have on the back half of the year that’s sparkling volume will in fact improve from what happened in the second quarter.
Okay.
Yeah.
Ali I’d move on to your question on China.
The answer is there is absolutely no plans for increased price promotion.
In fact the reason for having an evolving OBPPC is to have more sustained volumes at the right price point and the right tax for all the consumers.
Now to give you an example you might be familiar that there has been a lot of upsizing going on in China and we have launched our 300 ml package last year.
Now we will tactically respond to such upsizing to be able to balance our volume and share performance.
But that’s a -- those are limited practical moves rather than a strategy to have increased price promotions.
So that's not really in the cards.
Now to maybe build on this a little bit and also to address some of innovation questions I didn’t have a chance to share is that we have small can either slim can or sleek can and small PET lounges all across the international territory all across Europe all across Eurasia-Africa Group and some of the Pacific markets.
That I believe is an important innovation in a way and also allows us to drive revenue and gross margin.
In addition to that let also keep in mind that we have some very successful products such as Pulpy that hasn't been fully launched in all of our international territory.
Eurasia-Africa Group for example have taken that and they have launched it in Morocco in a very short period of time we were able to achieve 20 plus percent market share with that launch.
We've just had a recent launch of extensions of coffee into PET in Japan in the CVS channel recruiting female consumers.
We are quite happy and pleased with the results of that.
We have been innovating energy drinks in Russia and Turkey by expanding them into PET packages re-sealable PET packages that the consumers want.
So we continue to innovate in different packages different categories across our international territory as well as using successful innovation from the previous years.
Thank you Jackson Irial Steve Ahmet and Gary.
Our business continues to grow and to capture global volume and value share even in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges.
And importantly we do not manage our business for the short-term but rather for the medium and long-term.
And as I mentioned earlier our focus on achieving our 2020 Vision is unwavering with current dynamics leading us to believe that our performance will be better in the back half of this year and beyond.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions).
Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one person per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I now would like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we’ll turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer President of Coca-Cola International; Steve Cahillane President of Coca-Cola Americas; and Irial Finan President of our Bottling Investments Group will also be available for the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
We delivered sequential volume growth in the third quarter while capturing global non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage value share for the 25th consecutive quarter.
We gained volume and value share across core sparkling juice and juice drinks sports drinks and ready-to-drink teas.
Importantly we were able to do this in combination with a 2% increase in price mix.
Excluding the impact of structural items we generated comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 4% and strong operating income growth of 8%.
Our broad diversified product portfolio the disciplined approach to extracting and reinvesting savings and our global geographic reach are enabling us to effectively navigate a still uncertain macroeconomic environment.
History has taught us that when we invest through difficult times we emerge even stronger.
This quarter our system delivered the highest number of servings ever reported in the third quarter both for brand Coca-Cola and across our portfolio.
In all we delivered 181 billion servings thanks to global volume growth of 2% driven by 2% global growth in brand Coca-Cola.
This record number of servings speaks not only to our systems worldwide strength but also to the opportunities ahead of us as we engaged with the next-generation of global consumers.
Our global still brands also delivered solid results growing 3% and gaining global value share.
These third quarter results bring our year-to-date volume growth to 2% cycling 5%.
In line with our expectations for the third quarter we delivered sequential volume growth in many key markets including North America China India and regions across Europe.
That said clearly the global economy remains challenged as noted by the International Monetary Fund last week which trimmed this forecast for global output for the sixth time since early last year.
And as we have all noted emerging markets have become increasingly more volatile further exacerbating a challenging global landscape.
Hence disposable income and consumer spending have become challenged and consequently have impacted the overall growth of the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink industry.
Yet despite these ongoing headwinds our business remains healthy and we continue to invest in the strength of our brands.
We are fully implementing our productivity and reinvestment plans and together with our global bottling partners we continue to advance our system.
All of this leads us to remain confident in our ability to drive our volume growth trajectory back in line with our long-term growth model over time.
Looking first to our operations in North America brand Coca-Cola grew an impressive 2% in the quarter leading our total beverage portfolio to 2% growth on top of 2% growth in the prior quarter -- in the prior year quarter.
Year-to-date volume growth in North America is even as we cycled 2%.
Sparkling beverages were even in the quarter with sparkling price mix increasing 1%.
Year-to-date sparkling price mix is up 2% as we remained committed to a rational pricing environment.
We also remained focused on consistent investments in packaging innovation in immediate consumption growth and increased teen recruitment all of which are yielding positive results.
Specifically packages like the 1.25 liter and mini packs -- mini can packs have increased our household base by more than 1.8 million in the last year.
In addition Coca-Cola has generated over $19 million incremental immediate consumption transactions year-to-date and importantly Coca-Cola remains the most preferred beverage brand amongst teens by 2 to 1 margin.
Still beverage volume grew a solid 5% with volume and value share gains across the energy juice and juice drinks water and tea categories.
In sports drinks we gained volume share while maintaining value share.
As these results indicate our revenue growth management strategies are working and enabling our system to provide consumers the brand they love the convenience that they crave and the value that they need while also expanding our topline.
We continue to outperform the industry gaining volume and value share across both sparkling and still categories.
I’m also pleased to share that we are making progress on the evolution of our North America system as our North America team continues to advance discussions with existing and prospective partners who are eager to be part of this dynamic franchise system.
Turning now to Latin America our volume growth was even in the third quarter cycling 5% growth and coupled with a double-digit increase in price mix due primarily to continued and disciplined focus on price and pack architecture enhancements as well as inflationary environments in some markets.
Across the region we gained non-alcoholic ready-to-drink volume share making this the 25th consecutive quarter that we maintained or gained volume share.
Similar to what we have experienced in other markets we are seeing a slowdown in economic growth in Mexico and Brazil.
Falling GDP growth rates have led to slower growth rates in personal consumption and consequently in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
As in other instances where we have witnessed economic slowdowns in recent years we are expanding our marketing efforts while actively working with our bottling partners to invest in these markets and to offer consumers attractive price pack combination.
Examples include the expansion of returnable glass bottle distribution and initiatives to ensure affordability tied to magic price points.
Outside of Mexico and Brazil we experienced solid performance with volume growth of 4% in the quarter.
Moving on now to Europe we again witnessed diverging results with 3% volume growth in Northern European countries offset by a 5% volume decline in countries that make up Central and South Europe for a net decline of 1% in our European business in the third quarter.
In spite of this challenging environment we gained volume share in core sparkling across the entire continent while continuing to strengthen our competitive positions across the non alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry in our Central and Southern European business unit.
Price mix increased 8% in the quarter including the impact of the consolidation of Innocent.
Our Share a Coke campaign was extremely well received.
We placed over 2.5 billion customized packages into the market to drive team recruitment and further bolster immediate consumption.
Lastly our operations in Germany continued to perform well delivering 3% growth in the quarter cycling 3%.
This performance was fuelled by high single digit growth in brand Coca-Cola and double-digit Coke Zero growth.
Sprite and Fanta also contributed to growth in the quarter in Europe.
The Eurasia and Africa group grew 4% cycling 11% as we maintained focus on broadening distribution honing our marketing efforts and strengthening brand loyalty in the more than 80 countries that make up our business in this dynamic region.
Volume growth grew 4% led by brand Coca-Cola which grew 3% and Sprite which grew 4%.
Still beverage volume grew 3% in the quarter.
The Eurasia and Africa group maintained volume share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages while growing volume share in sparkling beverages and juice and juice drinks.
Both the Middle East and North Africa business unit and the Central East and West Africa business unit maintained their strong first half volume performance in the third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the Eurasia and Africa group is up high single digits cycling 10% growth and has been an important contributor to our year-to-date performance.
Our Pacific group delivered 5% growth in the quarter improving sequentially from the second quarter and cycling 4% from the prior year quarter.
Sparkling beverages led with 5% growth as Brand Coca-Cola delivered 7% growth and Sprite grew 5%.
Still beverage volume also grew 5% in the quarter while cycling 7% growth.
As noted our second -- as noted during our second quarter call we anticipated a better second half of the year in China and I'm pleased to report that we were able to deliver 9% volume growth in the quarter led by 8% growth in sparkling beverages.
Earlier this year we began to evolve our strategies in China to reflect the current economic and competitive environment and also to position ourselves for continued sustainable profit growth.
Our business in India delivered 6% growth in the quarter cycling double digits.
We achieved this growth while increasing prices across our juice brands to offset higher cost of goods.
In addition volume grew by strong double digits through September once the impact of the extended monsoon abated.
Brand Coca-Cola again led the way with 22% growth in the quarter.
We are pleased with these results and with our solid volume and value share gains across sparkling and still beverages in India.
Looking ahead we have strong marketing programs planned for the fourth quarter of this year and into next year.
I'm particularly excited about two iconic marketing programs that will ignite consumer passions across key markets.
Specifically the Olympic Torch relay recently started [ph] from Asian Olympia as it begins its relay journey across Russia.
And the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour is also underway with stops planned in 89 countries where passions for football run high.
Further throughout our company's history we've always been at the forefront of cultural change in forming the conversation inspiring our youth to act and bringing resources to our local communities all across the world.
This legacy has sprained our thinking about forging effective and lasting partnerships creating shared value making a positive societal difference in areas that are of critical importance to our business specifically water woman and wellbeing.
Returning to our global performance we benefited from marked sequential improvement in several key markets.
We achieved robust and widespread growth of our flagship brand and we delivered solid financial results.
Our efforts to enhance the health of our system are working as evidenced by our broad based growth improving execution and strong cash generation.
At the same time we also acknowledged that we have more work to do as we will no doubt face headwinds as we work towards our 2020 vision.
Nevertheless the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry is a vibrant and rewarding business to compete in and our business has consistently grown.
And I can assure you that underlying forces that shaped our 2020 vision just a few years ago remains very much intact today.
Together with our global system partners our roadmap is enabling us to strategically invest both through good times and challenging times to deliver long-term sustainable performance.
I’ll now turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
Our third quarter results underscore several key points.
First the global economy is still struggling to recover with increasing volatility across emerging markets.
Second slowing economic growth clearly impacted consumer spending and overall non-alcoholic ready-to-drink industry growth in the quarter.
And third in spite of these macro trends our strategies and solid execution enabled us to once again capture global value share and to deliver solid financial performance.
As Muhtar said we grew our global volume 2% in the quarter while at the same time delivering solid financial results.
While we’re pleased with this sequential volume improvement we remained focused on further advancing our volume growth trajectory over time.
Concentrate sales were slightly below unit case volume growth in the quarter but we’re in line with unit case sales year-to-date.
Moving onto our financial results each of our geographic operating units contributed to comparable currency neutral operating income growth in the quarter.
Comparable currency neutral net revenues were even both in the quarter and year-to-date excluding the impact of structural items this would primarily be the Philippines and Brazil bottler net revenues increased 4% for the quarter and 3% year-to-date.
We realized a healthy 2% global price mix for the quarter and 1% price mix year-to-date.
Importantly year-to-date price mix was positive across each of our geographies with the exception of the Pacific due to geographic mix.
Also as you know we consolidated the Innocent brands in Europe which helped our price mix in the quarter but just to be clear our global price mix was 2% without the Innocent brands benefit.
As expected our gross margins moderated somewhat this quarter due to geographic mix.
We expect our full-year gross margins to be relatively in line with our year-to-date comparable gross margins.
Excluding the impact of structural items we achieved five points of favorable operating expense leverage for the quarter while we continued to support our brands through increased marketing investments.
Our operating expense leverage now stands at three points year-to-date and we expect low single digit leverage for the full year.
As a reminder we are cycling the reversal of expenses related to one of our long-term incentive plans in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up 7% this quarter and 5% year-to-date excluding the impact of the structural items operating income grew 8% in the quarter and 6% year-to-date.
Therefore we now expect our full-year operating income to be generally in line with our year-to-date performance.
On a comparable basis the impact of currency was a 5% headwind on this quarter’s operating income results a full point more than we expected due to the -- and this is due to the weakening of many of the emerging market currencies.
We now anticipate continued currency headwinds will have an unfavourable impact on the operating income in the 5% to 6% range in the fourth quarter.
Comparable earnings per share grew 4% in the third quarter despite currency headwinds of about 5%.
Year-to-date comparable earnings per share also grew 4% despite headwinds from currency of about 4%.
We generated $7.7 billion in cash from operations year-to-date and have repurchased $2.7 billion of our shares in line with our plans to repurchase $3 billion to $3.5 billion this year.
Equity income came in lower than in the prior year quarter due to the ongoing challenging macroeconomic conditions around the world.
We expect equity income will continue to be impacted by these factors.
Let me now provide you just with a couple of reminders as we look through the balance of the year.
Looking forward as mentioned in our second quarter earning call we anticipate that bottling transactions including the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations early in the third quarter will have a 3% structural impact on our full year 2013 net revenues.
Likewise our full year operating income results should see a 1% negative structural impact.
In closing we are strategically navigating through these challenging macroeconomic times investing in our business to steadily strengthen our competitive position and to drive balanced growth and long term sustainable performance.
Operator we’re now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Muhtar I was hoping for more granularity on emerging markets given the Q3 slowdown particularly in Latin America which was in contrast to some improvement we saw in China and India.
So can you give us an update on macro environment as you look around the world and also some of the strategies you mentioned you were implementing are you gaining traction at this point from a market share standpoint and should we expect to see volume performance in emerging markets improve as we look out going forward from here? Yes Dara good morning.
Now I think first it’s important to realize that there are different timings across the world to some of the volatility in macroeconomics and particularly what's interesting for us which is disposable incomes.
So I think China has already had a slowdown and is beginning to recover.
We see that and there’s always also a lag between GDP per capita and disposable income.
So also important to realize that they don’t all happen at the same time.
The numbers don’t correspond to each other one to one.
And so we do see an improvement in Southeast Asia and parts of certainly China where things have stabilized and things – people are beginning to normalize their sort of habits.
And in the last sort of three four months we’re seeing a flight of currency from emerging markets market stock exchanges in countries back into North America that’s had an impact on disposable incomes in Latin America in Eurasia in countries like Turkey and other countries – and certain other countries in North Africa.
So yes those are – and you can track stock exchange indexes and you can track disposable income growth or slowdown.
They are all very related and we do see that the world is not just one city or one sort of element of volatility.
There are different pockets of volatility happening at the same time.
And what we are fortunate with is a great portfolio a wonderful portfolio where India slows down maybe seven eight nine months ago it’s coming – we see some comeback in terms of disposable incomes I’m talking about and China is the same Southeast Asia ASEAN similar Philippines also pretty much in that camp and then we certainly also see that we still got some headwinds maybe in other parts of the world.
So there are some tailwinds coming and some headwinds coming and we continue to invest in our brands.
And when you look at our performance we have sequential improvement in many parts of the world particularly when you look at places like India places like China ASEAN even also developed markets such as Australia and also South Africa.
And our African continent I haven’t mentioned that countries that are in Sub-Saharan Africa that are usually sort of south of 80 per capita again grew in a very healthy manner this past quarter about 5% up and we expect Africa to continue to generate a good results and economies in Africa seem to be pretty buoyant and seem not to be too impacted.
But of course they are at a very slow level of their per capita development as well.
I hope that helps.
Yes.
That’s helpful.
And then some of the strategies you are implementing do you think it is helping to drive an improvement in market growth at all or drive market share gains and do you feel comfortable that emerging market trends have bottomed in general at this point and we should see some improvement going forward or is it still too volatile to call right now? I think it’s pretty as I said different pockets showing different results but we have a very very sharp focus on I was down in Latin America recently a month ago.
I have visited many countries in Africa recently as well as in Asia.
That we have an incredibly sharp focus on brand price pack channel architecture new price points lower price points more focus on affordability more focus on returnable packs and smaller packs individual packs that helped continue to keep the drinkers base growing which is key and essential to when economies also start turning up and when disposable income start heading north.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Muhtar critics have said that Coke’s growth story is over and reflected in the stock price pointing to the slowing emerging market growth you were just talking about declines in Diet soft drinks some say the pricing in U.S.
is irrational and inability to grow in big markets like U.S.
and Mexico? Could you explain why you still see solid growth ahead for the company and what the company is doing in terms of innovation productivity you mentioned price pack earlier to drive that growth and why the critics who declared the growth story is over are wrong? Thanks.
Yeah.
Thanks Bill.
First philosophically from a strategic point -- vantage point the whole story of balanced growth we believe is still very intact balance being growth in western markets growth in emerging markets balance being growth in sparkling and growth in still beverages and you see that happening in this past quarters as well.
So we have grown in markets like United States which we believe is a long-term growth market and when you think about it 14 of the last -- of the last 14 consecutive quarters we have grown in all but one of them and now we have generated again 2% growth with 2% growth of brand Coca-Cola.
So we Australia grew many important markets in Western Europe grew Germany grew again 3% countries in Northwest Europe generated good healthy growth for us.
So and then emerging markets.
Yes there are some headwinds that are happening in emerging markets but we believe they are very temporary.
The whole demographic the whole investment the whole story of 1 billion new middle class still holds very strong in our opinion by 2020 over this last -- this past decade that we are in this decade that we are in a 1 billion new middle class that bodes very well for our - the industry we are in and we believe we can continue to generate very healthy good growth.
We believe we can continue to generate very healthy price earnings -- I mean I'm sorry price mix and we believe that therefore like in this past quarter which was where we did see a lot of headwinds we generated 4% revenue growth and 8% currency neutral operating income growth.
And we believe that there is -- we had a lot of headwinds.
So as economies begin to move I think we will see a lot of improvement.
I’ll now ask Ahmet as well to make some comments on this and if need be also ask Steve to add his commentary.
Bill you mentioned a few items I will just focus on a couple of them.
Emerging markets as you would know if you look at the history that it goes through cycles.
So it has a cycle of years and years of growth and every now and then you have economic headwinds and you managed through that.
But the emerging growth – emerging market growth economically certainly isn’t over and we have a formula which pretty much closely shows that as personal consumption grows we actually grow with it.
Now having said that in some of the emerging markets where there might be personal consumption and macro headwinds we can still grow like India because we have very low per caps and we have significant investments in feet on the street infrastructure brands.
We are just really building our business and India showed that again this year.
So that's what I would say about your comment of the emerging market.
The growth story there is far from over for a long time to come.
And I guess the rest were about U.S.
pricing and decline in soft drinks.
So maybe I should just pass that on to Steve.
Yes.
Thanks Ahmet.
First I'd just underscore on the broader question what Muhtar said in his prepared remarks that in this quarter we delivered the highest number of servings ever reported in the third quarter.
So I think that bodes well for our growth story going forward.
But with regards to North American pricing which I heard you asked Bill and in particular sparkling price we feel good about delivering positive price mix in the quarter of plus 1% in line with our strategy to consistently earn at least one to two points of sparkling with consumers.
And the U.S.
Coke system remains committed to taking rational pricing and we’ve done this very well over the past several years.
In fact we achieved two to three points of price mix in sparkling beverages and across our total portfolio in both 2011 and 2012.
Year-to-date we are 2% sparkling price mix which we feel good about.
But I think it’s important to remember we’ve always said that we’re going to focus on consumer-centric pricing.
And if I can give you an example of that -- the average price today of an eight-ounce serving of Coca-Cola is $0.25 exactly $0.25.
This is up over 5% versus two years ago and it’s up nearly 10% versus three years ago which compares very favorably to the U.S.
inflation market.
And this tells me really three things: First at $0.25 we do not have an affordability issue.
Coca-Cola remains a very affordable indulgence.
Two we've been able to earn price above inflation in the United States.
And three we still have plenty of room to continue to take price.
But now addressing the third quarter in particular we acknowledge we did strategically invest in select promotional activity in the back half of the summer through the Labor Day holiday.
Given that we essentially didn't have much of a 4th of July holiday a Memorial Day holiday this Labor Day acted much more like a 4th of July holiday.
But these investments were tied to specific occasion-based brands and packages to help drive incremental household penetration which they did attract more consumers into the category which happened and is very much in line with our longstanding North American strategy.
And all of these activities that we did all of them to take price in the marketplace I think set us up very well to take more price in this quarter and going into 2014.
So we are very confident that the pricing environment in North America remains very rational and we will able to continue to earn price in the marketplace in this quarter and going forward into next year.
Yes just let me round up that question with one final remark Bill.
And that is that once again if you take our world average per capita of around 90 just under 90 you take the most populous nations of the world that are less than half of that per capita.
India China Indonesia way below that number way below half of that number.
We believe this and many other parts of the world as well in Africa the youngest billion we believe that -- we believe the critics whoever they are are wrong.
I don’t understand that sentiment.
We are growing while others are not at the moment and our business and balance portfolio is built for times like these.
So we see this as a time of opportunity.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
Question about Mexico in excise taxes I guess it’s been in the press over the last -- especially more so over last couple of week and then speaking the some of your bottling partners.
In Mexico specifically teams like they are sort of more resigned to the potential that’s it’s going to be a reality.
So I guess if you can talk a little bit about just how you see the situation unfolding in Mexico? The extent that we get or you’ll get an excise tax increase.
How you plan to or do you plan to do anything differently in Mexico with response to it may be some thoughts about elasticity and then finally just any concern that there is spillover into other market would also be helpful? Yes.
Look Bryan firstly let me just address that by saying regressive taxes do not work.
And wherever we have seen them being implemented in some cases they have been taken away by the government after two three years.
Basically like in Denmark they are not working wherever else they’ve been implemented and so the consumer suffers and then its proven time and time after again.
We’ve made our case to the government.
We have tremendous respect for the government of -- President Pena Nieto.
And we need to understand that -- and we have made our case that’s really does not have anything to do with health policy.
In order to address the health policy properly we have to come and work together with government and with civil society to raise their awareness and to create program that will really work that really drive physical activity.
And therefore just a regressive discriminatory tax on one part of the food industry just is not going to work and would currently that’s all I would really like to say because its discussions are in progress.
And I don’t want to comment any further.
Are there any preparations for I guess just trying to understand if it does become a reality is there -- do you have plans in place to deal with it if it does occur? Well I just don’t want to comment on it at this moment.
As I said it’s -- there is lot of discussions going on and that would be wrong for me to publicly comment on any of those discussions.
And therefore we’ll deal with whatever the result is in the most effective way.
I can assure you that we will continue to prosper the business.
We have -- we are one of the largest -- we are the largest consumer goods business in the country.
We are largest contributors to the GDP in that country by a big margin.
And we support millions of retailers in the country effectively for their livelihood and therefore I think that we will certainly find the right way forward whatever happens.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from John Faucher from JPMC.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Muhtar and Gary you guys talked about the price mix number improving sequentially which was good to see.
So Gary I guess -- you talk a little bit about how you see this playing out over the next sort of 12 to 24 months where you have the negative geographic mix offset by the sort of the positive mix on a per case basis is the bottler territories where you own the bottler gets better like North America versus the absolute level of pricing? How should we look at those factors sort of competing against each other to try and map something out? And then one other housekeeping question which was your comments on operating profits for the year could you just revise those and restate those just because there is some confusion about whether it was currency neutral or non-currency neutral what have you? Thanks.
Okay John.
Let me see how well I can do on this and then you can come back and ask.
But first going to price mix and just as a reprice in general on price mix generally what we see and I am going to take this in steps.
Generally what we see is you see pricing.
So you see rate and mix -- positive rate and mix would be positive across almost all of the groups.
You would then see negative -- generally you would see negative geographic mix and it's basically a function of higher growth in emerging market countries than developed market countries which would give you a negative geographic mix.
Then on top of that and you are absolutely right then where we own bottlers and they are growing and that gives you then a positive price mix because they are finished products versus concentrate.
So a couple of things.
So if you go back to the second quarter I talked about margins and I thought margins would moderate and because of geographic mix in the follow-up to a question I remember I said because we expect North America to actually perform better and that will actually hurt margins because it’s a finished product business where margins are lower.
But it helps price mix and what you are seeing today is what price mix in North America was even for the quarter.
We are getting positive price mix from our finished product businesses going forward and not talking about specifically about 2014 because we're still in the midst of planning 2014 we'll give you full review on our views on next year in the February call.
We are planning to take appropriate pricing that would -- and Steve referred to taking pricing in North America as well.
So we are expecting to take pricing.
So going forward what I would expect to see is that we should have a positive in rate going forward.
We should have a positive in mix going forward.
We should have a positive from finished products going forward.
And we should have a negative from geographic mix.
So that's the kind of – and if you add all that up it should be a positive price mix and that’s what we would expect and it’s what we would expect is within our long-term earnings growth model is positive price mix long term.
Now let me see if I can turn to operating income.
When I was talking about operating income it was definitely currency-neutral; it was an ex-structural.
So let's be very clear on both of those.
Currency-neutral and ex-structural.
So operating income was 8% currency-neutral ex-structural for the quarter and 6% year-to-date currency-neutral ex-structural.
And what I said was we now expect the full year to be generally in line with the first half of the year.
So somewhere in that ballpark and that is net of currency neutral and net of the structural impact because I can tell you with the structural impact it would -- it's a point of negative structural impact and so that would take our year-to-date from six to five for example.
So just to be clear ex-structural currency-neutral.
So and I am not trying to trick you into guidance or anything here.
But it basically sounds like you are saying sort of currency neutral ex-structural mid-single-digit year-to-date.
So therefore that implies to Q4 but then you talked about the currency impact.
So as we are looking at those should basically offset to sort of get you to like slight operating profit growth for the quarter? Well without giving guidance what we are basically saying is that the full year we think ex-structural and ex-currency at all to be in line pretty much where we are year-to-date.
Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I had one follow-up question on North America and then a question about Europe.
So in North America there has been a lot written about the declines that we've seen in diet sodas and see if I am not sure if you went through that and whether you shared some of the similar concerns that people have written about the decline in diets and sort of your perspective on whether the artificial sweetener issue is impacting the category at all and kind of from your strategy and dealing with that situation? Yeah.
Steve do you want to address that? Yeah.
Thanks Judy.
First I didn’t talk specifically about Diet.
I would underscore that we have a very wide portfolio in North America led by brand Coca-Cola which is twice the size of Diet Coke of brand Coca-Cola as you know grew 2% in the quarter which we are pleased with.
Diet Coke is like a lot of Diet products in the United States and not just beverages but across the whole array of food are under a bit of pressure as people are questioning ingredients ingredient safety and so forth.
But we believe very strongly in the future of Diet Coke the number two sparkling brand in the United States.
We’ve got terrific programs against it.
We are actually seeing increased incidence in the past quarter between 19 and 24 year olds.
We think a lot of that has to do with the exciting new promotions with Taylor Swift some of the new packaging we are bringing in the marketplace and increased focus on Diet Coke.
But there are headwinds.
There are headwinds that we are facing and we face headwinds in a lot of different areas in a lot of different places and this is just one of them.
But last year it became the second best selling sparkling in the United States and we are continue to focus on it.
Coke Zero also a part of our zero-calorie portfolio grew mid-single digits in the quarter.
So we are very happy about that.
We’ve got a great program around Coke Zero.
College GameDay just kicked off.
It’s really becoming ever more relevant with young males.
So we are confident that throughout our whole portfolio we are offering consumers exactly what they want when they want it how they want it at the right prices that they want it and we’ll continue to focus on any of the headwinds around Diet Coke and we are confident that it has a bright future in this country.
Okay.
And then just on Europe the improvements that we saw in Northwest Europe and Germany as well I guess to what do you attribute that to perhaps weather getting much better in the quarter as opposed to the macros and consumers and kind of what you guys are doing to really rejuvenate growth in those markets? Well Judy this is Muhtar.
First I think it’s important to understand that and I’ve said this in the past that the economies are performing at a different pace in the continents of Europe not -- it’s not everywhere is really bad not everywhere it’s really good.
And so you still have very challenging consumer sentiments in Spain in Italy in Greece in Portugal in the South in Southeast Europe and what used to be termed as the Balkans Romania Bulgaria former Yugoslavia.
It’s a very challenging environment.
And then you’ve got a better environment in Northwest Europe and then certainly the best environment still in Germany.
And so based on those our business also reflects some of those conditions and so it’s a pretty good mirror actually.
And I will ask Irial to comment on Germany and why we’ve been consistently performing in Germany and growing our business.
And again the tremendous sequential improvement versus the first half in many countries of Northwest Europe in Scandinavia and also Northwest European countries Irial? Thanks Muhtar.
And this actually goes back to one of the earlier questions.
I think in Germany we’ve got an economy that’s doing okay.
We have got actually really good marketing married up with continued excellent execution and you bring all that together and you get great results.
And for me in Germany it gives me great confidence about the future of our business quite frankly because we are seeing where we’ve put in the hard work where we do the right things in the business.
We do get good results and Germany is just an example of what can happen quite frankly in many markets around the world as the economies turn and improve.
Ahmet do you want to comment on that? Yeah.
I just wanted to -- hi Judy.
I just wanted to say to the others so we had a very very strong Share a Coke campaign across Europe this summer that worked extremely well.
We are ever more closely aligned with our bottling partners really driving growth.
And just on the macro I’d like to add that there is a clear divergence between north and south.
So north continues to do better and south continues to do worse.
So our business in the north certainly is reflective of that.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Can you just talk about the timing of some of the re-franchise in the U.S.
because I think we talked a lot about it earlier in the year and it’s kind of hit a low recently and then I’ve a follow-up? Yes I think it’s all target as we have said -- reported previously or we’ve made very sound and significant and good progress and discussions with some of our existing partners as well as discussions ongoing with some other prospective partners.
So we are on target if not a little bit ahead and I think you'll hear more about it in the coming sort of period ahead of this and I will ask Steve just to maybe shed some more light on it.
Bill I mean the one thing I would really underscore is we absolutely have not hit a low.
Don't take the absence of public commentary to mean that we are not making very good very constructive progress.
All of our bottling partners both current and prospective are extremely excited about this business in the United States about the opportunities to continue to be franchise partners in the United States to grow the business in the United States.
And we are making a very exciting progress and we will have more to report in the coming months.
And then just on the SG&amp;A costs can you just give us a little bit more color on what drove some pretty significant efficiencies that's obviously great? But was the advertising ratio flat or up and then maybe what drove some of the other improvements on that line item? Are you talking about productivity Bill? Yes productivity and SG&amp;A broadly yes.
Sure Bill.
Within the quarter we continued to invest in marketing.
So marketing is actually up in the quarter and up year-to-date.
We had significant productivity savings in the quarter.
We have some previously announced productivity programs that we announced back in 2012.
Those 2012 programs will go through 2015 and really focus around productivity and then reinvesting those back into the business that we are focused on information systems marketing supply chain innovation operational excellence that sort of thing.
I can tell you -- we will give you a full update on it at the year-end call.
So I can give you the full year but we are making very good progress against the goals.
And you will see that on the February call when we go through a full update.
And we’ve got hard savings and soft savings.
So let me give you some examples of what's happening and it’s adding into the productivity and some of the leverage that you are seeing.
So -- and things like supply chain if the pricing [ph] is cheaper hard savings.
So we are doing a lot around supply chain and actually getting a lot of hard savings and those you are seeing are being reflected.
In marketing if you can buy media cheaper then we just buy more media.
Basically it’s what we are doing.
So we are reinvesting back into marketing and be enable to buy more media for the same price if you will.
So we -- as I say we will give you a full update on all of the productivity programs in February at our year-end call.
But we're making excellent progress and you're seeing a lot of that it’s what's coming through the G&amp;A line as I say within that marketing SG&amp;A marketing being up for the quarter and year-to-date.
Was there any benefit from the incentive compensation accruals either this quarter or maybe end of the fourth quarter as well? Very very little.
There is a huge cycling of last year in the first quarter as I've mentioned earlier.
But there is very little -- I mean there is a little bit but nothing of significance in the quarter of this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Just one quick thing and then a real question.
So I just want to underscore something again because it's a key conspiracy and I think what Steve said a moment ago is music to a lot of investors’ ears and I want to replay to make sure I understand.
So did you say that the past couple of months in North America from a price from an investment perspective were little bit more of a blip in that we should expect something like higher pricing that we saw in 2011 and 2012 going forward in North America? Yes thanks Ali.
I think that's a fair interpretation of what I said.
This was a very different summer.
It's been a difficult year starting with the fiscal cliff and sequestration and payroll taxes and so forth and then the summer was very sluggish.
And it’s very important in our business to keep consumers engaged with our brands to make sure that we are in the households to make sure that teens are being recruited.
And so Labor Day acted very much like 4th July or a Memorial Day whereas typically it would not.
It would be the end of summer.
And Labor Day acted more like the only summer.
So it was more promotional than you would have seen.
It would be more promotional than what we would expect going forward.
But those things happened from time to time.
And we think that the pricing environment will continue to be very strong very rational and because of all the investments we’re making in our brands we feel that we have the opportunity to earn even more price going forward in the marketplace.
And that would be absolutely our intention to do that.
Okay.
That makes perfect sense.
I just want to add one thing.
In terms of the Nielsen’s data yes that’s exactly the reflection but don’t underestimate.
We took very healthy pricing in [ice tea] also in the quarter.
And so overall that’s how you get to the one price mix positive on sparkling.
And so don’t let that point go unnoticed at the moment.
I appreciate that.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then a broader question I don’t know how often you revisit this but what do you think the company has to grow volumes between now and 2020 to deliver on the 2020 vision given some of the recent slowdown in volumes.
And I guess in that context do you think as a company you have to acquire more to reach that vision? I would say that first we believe that our long-term growth model with appropriate mix which we believe we can take and we can generate.
It would definitely get us to our 2020 vision of -- from our system revenue point of view of doubling our business with the base of 2010.
So that is sort of trajectory if you like and we’re on track in terms of moving ahead to doing -- achieving our goal.
The second piece is -- we always -- we’ll always be looking for any kind of bolt-on acquisitions as may make sense but that’s the expense of what I would say that right now we would be looking at.
Bolt-on acquisitions and that’s sort of if there is an opportunity we will look at it seriously.
And in some the difference of volume versus price mix to reach the system doubling goal has that shift -- has it shifted at all between the two? Sorry.
Sorry.
Say that again.
Well so to double the system sales by 2020 there is perhaps an ingoing assumption of what would be from volume and what would be from price mix.
Has the recent global slowdown shifted that mix at all between volume growth and price mix growth to reach the doubling of sales? I don’t think materially.
If you look at our long-term growth that sort of corridor of volume plus what we’ve been achieving I think the balance is still there.
Okay.
Same as it used to be.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Wendy Nicholson from Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First question on China can you talk about the acceleration the pick-up in volumes there whether that was driven by any change in pricing or promotional levels and what your outlook kind of a normalized run rate because that region has been so lumpy in terms of volume growth kind of as we go into ‘14 whereas the base case of volume growth? And then my second question is looking at the buyback program the stock is on track for two years of relative underperformance.
And we haven’t seen that for a while and yet your targets for buyback hasn’t changed since the beginning of the year.
So I’m kind of surprised the balance sheet you have with the weakness in the stock and certainly Muhtar with your resounding confidence about the launch of outlook.
You’re not getting more aggressive on the buyback here? Thanks.
Yeah.
I’ll have Ahmet just comment on China then maybe Gary can finish off the second part of the question.
Sure.
Thanks Wendy.
You might remember that in our last call we talked about the fact that we were evolving both our organization and our strategy in China.
And what we see in the third quarter really encourages us that we had not only 9% growth in total but also 8% growth in sparkling.
And that’s pretty much delivers on the expectation that we’ve said that we would expect sequential improvement from the first half results in the second half of this year and we expect that sequential improvement from the first half results to continue into 2014.
To your question on pricing promotion we did not have any significant marked pricing promotions in the marketplace.
It was basically a combination of a) beginning to implement parts of our new strategy in the marketplace; b) the same share of co-promotion that we are scaling up these wonderful global assets in all parts of the world.
And then our new team beginning to gel together connecting with our bottling system and really improving execution.
So we are encouraged by those results and we expect to continue to as I said improve sequentially from the first half results.
Yes Wendy relative to share repurchase let me just first – let me just start with the preface that don't particularly agree with you on saying our share repurchase has relatively underperformed for the last two years.
But after that couple of thoughts on share repurchase.
Our view on share repurchase is that share repurchase is value neutral.
It is not something that grows value.
It does for the short-term holder so maybe you can get a buck in the share price but for the long-term holder it is not something that's value enhancing.
It is much more like a cash sufficient dividend which is the way we treat it.
And that our priorities for cash are number one to reinvest in the business to grow the business that will include bolt-on acquisitions et cetera.
Number two would be dividends which we have increased for the last 51 years 10% this year and third excess cash would be put into share repurchase.
And just because we don't need the cash in the business so it's a return of cash to shareholders.
But leveraging the balance sheet to do something that we would view as value neutral we don't think is the right thing to do.
So we continue to just perform exactly in line with the target that we set at the beginning of the year.
Thank you Gary Ahmet Steve Irial and Jackson.
We delivered sound third quarter results within an ongoing challenged macroeconomic environment.
While we saw sequentially improvement in the business we remain constructively discontent and resolutely focused on further advancing our growth trajectory.
Our 2020 vision and long-term strategies remain firmly intact.
And together with our global bottling partners we are investing in our brands and our capabilities to further strengthen our system and to drive sustainable growth and value.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of this call.
(Operator Instructions).
Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we’ll turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President Global Chief Customer Officer and President Coca-Cola America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President the Coca Cola Company and President of Bottling Investments and Supply Chain will also be available for the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objective and should be considered in conjunction with a cautionary statement contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
I would now like to turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
I want to start off today by recognizing that many of you are attending the CAGNY conference this week given the timing of our earnings call and the fact that I will also presenting at CAGNY this coming Friday we will keep our prepared remarks a little bit shorter to ensure that we have adequate time for your questions and that we can get you back into the conference.
With 2013 behind us I am now looking forward to joining forces with our global system associates as we work to restore momentum to our business in 2014.
2013 was clearly marked by ongoing persistent macroeconomic challenges and our business was not immune to these pressures.
Nevertheless we delivered sound financial results and we grew global value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for a 26th consecutive quarter.
Our volume -- our worldwide volume grew 1% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the full-year.
We delivered full-year comparable currency neutral operating income growth of 6% after excluding the impact of structural changes off of a comparable currency neutral ex-structural revenue growth of 3% for the full-year.
And we delivered full-year comparable currency neutral EPS growth of 8% in line with our long-term growth targets.
This performance underscores our ability to generate sound financial results even in a challenging environment.
Our sparkling brands grew 1% in the full-year cycling 3% with brand Coca-Cola adding nearly a 100 million unit cases.
In fact all of our billion dollar Sparkling brands except for Diet Coke Coca-Cola Light grew in 2013 contributing more than 140 million incremental cases in the full year.
As of the end of 2013 we've gained core sparkling value share for 17 consecutive quarters.
For the full year our portfolio of still beverage brands contributed over 300 million incremental cases or 5% growth while cycling 10% growth in the prior year.
Importantly we gained volume share and value share for the year.
Our tea volume grew 11% for the full-year with solid performance across our entire tea portfolio.
Juice and juice drinks grew 5% for the full year with strong performance by Minute Maid Simply [indiscernible] Minute Maid Pulpy Rani and InneSense.
We are proud of our robust portfolio of leading juice and juice drink brands.
Sports drinks grew 2% for the full-year with Powerade continuing its solid and consistent growth performance.
Packaged water grew 5% for the full-year as we focused on growing over premium water brands and on expanding our PlantBottle and Ecoflex packaging.
While 2013 was an unusual and challenging year it has certainly not deterred us from our commitment to our 2020 vision.
Many economies around the world remained volatile in 2013 developed markets are slowly starting to recover from this turbulent time and consumer expenditures remain moderated.
And emerging markets faced substantial challenges as they dealt with fluctuating currencies and other structural issues.
However we remain optimistic and excited about the future of our business and brands in emerging markets after all per capita consumption for our brands remains relatively low in most emerging countries.
That said these emerging market conditions simply reinforce our commitment to remain focused on our long-term strategies and to keep investing through these tough times to ensure that we continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
In Europe we saw a 1% volume decline for the year.
However we gained sparkling and still value share and we were pleased by improving volume performance in certain key markets.
A better second half of the year helped our North-West Europe and Nordics business unit close 2013 with 1% volume growth while Germany continued to outperform delivering 6% volume growth for the quarter and 2% growth for the year.
Our successful share of Coke campaign last summer contributed to full-year trademark Coca-Cola volume growth of 1% in North-West Europe and Nordics and 5% in Germany.
We also launched share of Coke in our Iberia business unit in the fourth quarter of the past year and as in other markets the campaign has generated tremendous excitement contributing to strong double-digit immediate consumption growth and to trademark Coca-Cola growth of 2% in the quarter.
Moving now to Eurasia and Africa full-year volume grew 7% cycling 10% in the prior year and we grew volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready to drink beverages for the full-year.
All our business units delivered solid full-year volume growth including double-digit volume growth in our Middle East and North Africa business units.
In Russia strong Olympic and Christmas campaigns activated across the country view double digit growth in trademark Coca-Cola for the year and enabled us to gain core sparkling volume share while maintaining value share.
Fittingly leading up to this Olympic year our business achieved an all-time high market share for non-alcoholic ready to drink beverages.
We recently completed a successful Olympic torch relay bringing the torch to thousands of Russian towns and cities and I was pleased to have an opportunity to host our customers and our bottling partners in Sochi last week where I saw our best ever activation of an Olympic asset.
Our local team and bottlers are doing an excellent job in Sochi.
Our Pacific Group grew 3% in the full year cycling 7% in the prior year.
We were pleased to see improving trends across key markets including India China and Japan as the year progressed.
For the full year our volume in Japan grew 1% with Sprite Minute Maid and ISACA each growing by double digits.
China contributed 3% volume growth for the full year cycling 4% in 2012 and grew 5% in the fourth quarter.
We delivered balanced growth across sparkling and still beverages thanks to strong campaigns and a renewed focus on execution.
We’re engaging teams and driving category excitement in China through campaigns like our Mini-Me Coca-Cola campaign which contributed to double digit immediate consumption growth in the fourth quarter and our popular Share a Coke campaign last summer.
And India cycled 16% full year growth with a 4% volume increase in 2013 closing out the year with our 30th consecutive quarter of volume growth.
It is remarkable to think of the business that we have built in India over the last two decades.
In 2013 our system generated nearly $1.8 billion in revenue and we have four of the top five core sparkling brands the number one juice drink brand a commanding non-alcoholic ready to drink share and so much so much fun tapped opportunities still ahead.
Turning now to Latin America we grew 1% for the full year [cycling] 5% in the prior year.
Argentina Mexico and Brazil all come to mind as we consider what worked for us and what was challenging in 2013 in Latin America.
We were pleased with our performance in Argentina where despite challenging economic conditions our brands performed well resulting in 7% volume growth for the full year.
Sparkling was an important volume driver in Argentina with Coca-Cola’s Sprite and Fanta each growing mid to high single digits.
Cola-Cola Life met our expectations and is playing a meaningful role as it is not just delivering incremental volume but also enhancing the positive feelings that consumers have for Coca-Cola.
We’re excited about the potential of Coca-Cola Life as it has shown great promise in bringing people back into the category.
It’s another example of how we are working to be part of a solution to the obesity issue giving consumers a blend of sugar and natural zero calorie sweeteners.
Returning to our business in Argentina our still brands grew double digits with strong performance in packaged water with the launch of the Bonaqua Ecoflex bottle as well as solid growth in juice and juice drinks and sports drinks.
In Mexico volume growth was even for the year with still beverage volume growth offset by sparkling.
Despite a solid start to 2013 we had a challenging second half of the year mostly due to severe weather.
We continue to see opportunity in Mexico where our strong brands world class execution and an improving economy bode well for the future.
Our bottling partners have adjusted their pricing as a result of the newly implemented tax and we are closely monitoring any further adjustments as needed.
While we expect the change to adversely impact our volume in Mexico in the short term it is too early to tell what the exact impact will be at this time.
I will wrap up my commentary in Latin America with an update on our business in Brazil where consumers have been impacted by a slowing economy rising prices and reduced disposable income.
Full year volume was down 2% due to a disappointing 6% drop in the fourth quarter.
Our local team working closely with our bottling partners has now launched an upgraded affordability strategy enhancing our [Asian] brand price pack and channel architecture.
We are optimistic that this strategy together with our World Cup program will enable us to return to growth in Brazil in 2014.
Turning now to North America we remain steadfast in our commitment to building long term value in our flagship market and a commitment that calls for building strong brands trading customer value and enhancing our system capabilities.
Sandy Douglas is leading our North American business where we will again benefit from a strong customer and strategic brand expertise.
Adding Paul Mulligan and Irial Finan's disciplined focus on execution at the point of sale will enable us to refine these strategies and to enhance their impact.
The combined experience and expertise of this leadership team and a joint accountability for driving value will ensure that we are laser focused on continued improvement of our overall performance in this important market.
We will therefore continue to assess and to evaluate the operating results in North America as an integrated business.
In October of 2010 we established a four to five year timeframe to commence the refranchising of our bottling operations in North America.
2014 is the fourth year and as the North America operating model evolves it will not only streamline our focus but if will also expedite refranchising to independent bottling partners.
To date we've closed on the first transaction of our 21st century beverage partnership model at the end of 2013 and we are very encouraged with the seamless transition of the territory.
Looking ahead we are well aligned on the transition with the other four bottlers that we announced back in 2013.
We expect to reach agreements with those partners shortly and for those transactions to begin closing later in the year that we’re in.
We will also eminently announce new bottling partnerships whose ownership reflects the diversity of the consumers and customers we proudly serve in North America.
We expect North America to deliver consistent volume revenue and transaction growth with the balance volume and price mix that you would expect from an industry leader.
We also firmly believe that the business will deliver consistent profitable growth over the long-term.
2013 was a challenging year in North America and I am not satisfied with our overall performance.
Nevertheless we gained volume and value share while generating positive price mix of 1% across our portfolio and positive price mix of 2% for our sparkling brands.
However our volume was even versus prior year and operating income fell short of our targets.
Sparkling beverage volume fell 2% largely due to softer diet coke volume.
We have implemented a multi-faceted approach to address category headwinds and the various misperceptions that fuel them.
This effort is targeting both obesity and ingredient concerns and increase aggressive sweetener innovation transparent consumer communications continued packaging evolution and new partnerships with credible third parties around the world who will use meaningful facts to defend and protect the sparkling category.
While we work to nurture our sparkling business back to growth our still beverage business continues to perform well.
Still beverages grew 5% for the full year as our diverse portfolio of still beverage brands continues to outperform the competition.
Thanks to continuous innovation and to growing brands like Powerade Simply Gold Peak and Smartwater the fourth quarter marks the 15th consecutive quarter in which our still beverage portfolio gained or maintained volume and value share in North America.
As we approach the mid-point of our 2020 vision we remain fully committed to taking the necessary bold actions to realize our vision.
One such action is our recently announced global partnership with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters.
This partnership is a real game changing innovation in the non-alcoholic beverage category.
Consumers are demanding more beverage variety functionality and convenience.
And we believe Green Mountain is the perfect strategic partner to collaborate with and to capitalize on the many transformative opportunities we see available in the marketplace.
Importantly for the Coca-Cola Company with this exciting partnership we’re leveraging new technology to create a transformative platform for consumers to enjoy our great brands through new consumption occasions and new channels.
By combining Coca-Cola’s brand leadership and global footprint with Green Mountain’s cutting edge technology and innovation capabilities together we will capitalize on the many exciting opportunities in the single serve pod-based segment of the cold beverage industry as well as explore other future opportunities to collaborate on the entire [current] platform.
As evidenced by this recent announcement our management team is constantly identifying and constantly evaluating creative ways to formulate and fuel the power of partnerships that keep us at the forefront of consumer trends driving the dynamic global beverage industry.
We are fortunate to participate in a global and resilient industry fuelled by a robust long-term demographic trend.
We are part of a great business system and unparalleled in its reach and its commitment to invest and we are the stewards of some of the world’s most loved brand.
Thus there is no doubt that the lingering effects of the global recession in 2009 have created a challenging environment over the last two years.
In addition obesity and ingredient concerns have raised some questions about growth in developed markets.
Throughout this time period our Company has consistently delivered on our profit objectives and we will not allow ourselves to become distracted or to make decisions focused on short-term gains.
Instead we have thoroughly evaluated what we need to do to accelerate sustainable growth and we’re acting with urgency and decisiveness.
Historically we know that when we invest in our brands commit to near flawless execution and control what we know we can control we can accelerate our growth.
With this in mind we aligned on five strategic priorities to restore our momentum and to keep us on the path to achieve our 2020 vision.
These priorities focused on the growth drivers for our system sparkling beverages still beverages and global system execution.
And on securing and strengthening the financial assuming capital necessary to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Our five strategic system priorities to restore momentum are; firstly accelerate sparkling growth led by Coca-Cola; secondly strategically expanding our profitable still portfolio; third increasing media investments by maximizing productivity; fourth winning at the point of sale by unlocking the power of our system; and five investing in our next generation of [layers].
Let me just spend a few minutes providing some detail on each of these system priorities.
First we will accelerate sparkling growth led by Coca-Cola.
There is quite simply no other brand in the world like Coca-Cola the world’s most universal beverage brand.
We are fortunate to be its stewards.
And indeed in many markets around the world brand Coca-Cola remains magical but we need to work even harder to enhance the romance of the brand in every market around the world.
Our global marketing community is laser focused on doing their best work while reallocating resources to the most impactful campaigns and mediums.
A good example of this great work is Share a Coke which I have referenced several times in my remarks earlier.
Since the initial launch of Share a Coke in Australia back in 2011 we've now executed the campaign in 21 other markets.
There is -- this is much more than the marketing campaign.
In fact it’s a system-wide collaborative effort to engage consumers in a meaningful and a very authentic Coca-Cola way.
Markets that have launched Share a Coke have experienced increased household penetration higher immediate consumption volume and improved brand love scores as a direct result of this campaign.
This is the kind of marketing that we love to invest in and we look forward to again sharing a Coke with millions of consumers around the world this year.
Same time we're working hard to empower our consumers and we're making progress against our four commitments to further contribute to healthier happier and more active communities.
To that end we've placed a special emphasis on innovation efforts to enhance low or no calorie versions of our brand as well as on supporting active healthy living programs all around the world.
Our second priority is to strategically expand our profitable still portfolio.
We are the world’s largest still beverage Company with $11 billion still brands and many more in the pipeline.
We have shown in juices that when we approach an objective and a goal systematically aligning with our partners planning from end-to-end we win and we win big.
Today the Coca-Cola Company is also the world’s largest juice and juice drinks company almost twice the size of our closest competitor.
We are the stewards of $4 billion juice and juice drink brands and we are working diligently to raise that number.
We're bringing the same disciplined thinking to other categories partnering across our system and across our supply chain to establish a scalable formula for value creation in new categories.
This effort involves re-examining every stage of a beverage’s lifecycle and developing category specific plans that balance organic growth innovation and acquisition.
Our third system priority is to increase media investments by maximizing productivity.
We are in a business where great marketing works.
So we have committed to increasing our media spending behind our brands by up to $1 billion by 2016.
We will fund this increased investment through a combination of supply-chain optimization system standardization diligent resource and cost allocation as well as improved utilization of our global marketing network.
This incremental productivity goal will further enable us to drive long-term profitable growth and momentum towards realizing our 2020 vision.
Gary will share further details about this new opportunity in a few moments.
Our fourth priority is to win at the point of sale by unlocking the power of our global system.
Working together with our marketing partners we are continuously building capabilities and leveraging best practices to improve our execution.
In the last four years alone our system has invested over $50 billion to enhance our competitive position in markets all around the world.
As you know execution in the global marketplace is about doing many common things uncommonly well and doing them in an aligned way across our great system.
It is about presenting our brands in the right package in the right outlook in the right channel at the right price cold available and within an arm’s reach of our consumers.
This is why we're calling 2014 the year of execution at the point of sale beginning with brand Coca-Cola.
Our final but perhaps most important priority is to continue to invest in our pipeline of leaders.
There is nothing more critical to our business than our people and we have to continue to hire the best retain the best train the best and manage with the best.
Our Company and leadership must inspire our people to live our values of focusing on the market working smart acting like owners and being passionate ambassadors for our Company and for our brand.
As we look forward to 2014 and beyond we remain very confident in our ability to drive our volume growth trajectory back in line with our long-term growth model.
The overall beverage industry remains healthy generating both volume and value growth.
Our diverse portfolio of $17 billion brands combined with our unparalleled scale provides us with many opportunities to accelerate market share gains.
We have identified opportunities to significantly enhance our productivity initiatives and we made important commitments to increase our brand investment.
Consequently we are no less enthusiastic about the future ahead of us and the beverage industry then when we embark on our 2020 vision back four years ago.
With that let me the turn the call over to Gary.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
As Muhtar shared earlier 2013 presented numerous challenges to our industry and to our business and as a result our full year volume growth was below our expectations.
However before we put 2013 behind us I wanted to reflect on a few items that I shared with you all at CAGNY last February.
Specifically I’ve talked about how our unwavering focus on long-term value creation for our shareowners and apart from competing in a great industry there were three specific points I emphasized.
First we are focused on delivering value creating volume growth and despite volume growth being below our expectations in 2013 we delivered full year operating income and EPS growth in line with our long-term growth targets.
Secondly our goal is to take volume share and although we fell short on volume we again gained global value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-bring beverages into 2013.
Lastly I emphasized the critical role that the evolution of our franchise system plays in creating sustainable long-term growth.
Our Company and our system made solid progress on this front throughout 2013.
We sold 51% of our Philippines bottling operations to Coca-Cola Thums Up.
Our four bottling partners in the greater Tokyo area merged to form Coca-Cola East Japan.
Our seven bottling partners in Spain and Portugal merged and the integration of that bottler is underway.
We merged our company own bottling operations in Brazil with an independent local bottler to form the second largest bottler in Brazil.
And we also continue to advance the system of the future work in North America.
Having said that let’s quickly review a few key drivers of our financial performance this year.
Unit case sales and concentrate sales were in line on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up 6% in the quarter and for the full year after excluding the impact of structural items.
Comparable currency neutral earnings per share grew 7% in the quarter and 8% for the full year and we generated $10.5 billion in cash from operations which was down 1% primarily due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and increase in tax payments and the impact of deconsolidation of bottling operations in the Philippines and Brazil.
Now let me take the moment to update everyone on our productivity initiatives before I move to our outlook for 2014.
First let me start by saying we made significant progress on our previously announced productivity and reinvestment programs in fact I’m pleased to report that by the end of 2013 we have substantially accomplished the objectives of the program and captured the savings associated with those objectives.
Secondly as Muhtar mentioned earlier we’re expanding our previously announced productivity and reinvestment program to drive an incremental $1 billion in productivity by 2016 that will be redirected primarily in to increased media investments.
Our incremental productivity goal consists of two relatively equal components.
First expanded savings through global supply chain optimization data and information technology system standardization and resource and cost reallocation which will be reinvested in global brand building initiatives with an emphasis on increased media spending and also will be increasing the effectiveness of our marketing investments by transforming our marketing and commercial model to redeploy resources into more consumer facing marketing investments to accelerate growth.
As we look ahead to 2014 let me take a minute to update you on a few outlook items as you model our business.
After considering our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of prior year rates we partly expect a currency headwind at the operating income of approximately 10 points in the first quarter of 2014 and seven points for the full year.
In terms of coverage we’re fully hedged on the euro and the yen almost totally covered on sterling and also have near term coverage in place across several other major currencies.
We anticipate that operating leverage on a currency neutral basis will be flat to slightly positive.
We expect net interest income will contribute roughly equivalent of penny per share to our full year 2014 earnings per share and will be evenly distributed throughout the year.
We expect the tax rate for 2014 to hold steady at approximately 23%.
With respect to structural items we’ll be still cycling the impact of some bottling divestitures during the first six months of 2014 and even though these structural items will not have a significant impact on earnings per share they will result in a one point headwind at both net revenue and operating income for the full year.
To be clear our 2014 outlook for the impact of structural items does not include the potential impact of refranchising bottling assets in North America related to our system of the future work.
We will continue to provide updates as we move forward throughout the year.
As for cash as I’ve shared with you over the years we utilize a very disciplined and consistent framework first we reinvest in the business which includes making the necessary investments to strengthen our brands to accelerate growth.
It also includes capital investments which we expect to be in the range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year.
Second we reward share owners by paying a healthy dividend we’ve increased our dividend every year for more than half a century and we will recommend another increase in the dividend this year at our Board meeting this week.
Next we evaluate opportunities to grow through acquisitions partnerships and joint ventures.
We do these as enablers to help accelerate growth when appropriate and where there is a need within our existing portfolio.
And finally we put what’s left over into share repurchase in 2014 we expect share repurchases to be in the range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion.
Although our 2014 outlook for net share repurchase is below 2013 I would remind everyone that our 2013 buybacks represented a 15% increase from the prior year and was partially funded by cash inflows related to bottling divestitures.
Also given the forecasted exchange headwinds in 2014 we believe this is the right approach and we’ll obviously continue to update you as we move forward throughout the year.
In terms of quarterly saving our first quarter in 2014 will have one less selling day and our fourth quarter will have one additional selling day.
In addition we expect the impact of the Easter holiday to fully benefit the second quarter of 2014 and we’ll be cycling the reversal of certain expenses related to long term compensation in the first and second quarters of 2014.
In closing we continue to be focused on doing the right things for the health of our business and to ensure we can deliver sustainable long term growth to create value for our shareowners.
I believe our Company and our system are well positioned to capitalize on the opportunities within our great industry.
I look forward to seeing many of you at CAGNY later this week and at CAGE in March.
Operator we’re now ready for your -- for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is from Bill Schmidt from Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning can you guys talk about through the outlook geography by geography and then maybe how the pace of growth is going to differ between volume and pricing given some of the big currency moves and also obviously the tax in Mexico and I have a follow up if I could.
Sure Bill good morning this is Muhtar.
Let me just first just take a step back and just say that in a way we’ve had a speed bump we know that would have come on our road to 2020.
We dealt with commodities in 2011 and ’12 volatility in weather has become a norm uncertain economies internal also execution issues caused us to underperform versus our expectations in 2013 I’ll start with -- by saying that.
We have looked at everything we’ve looked at our people priorities marketing selling and innovation and we have refreshed our plans and with a simple but scales offset of priorities on marketing our brands system execution by our franchisees and bottling partners and Company owned bottlers and on innovation of all kinds business models like the one that you -- we’ve recently announced with Green Mountain brands equipment packaging the lot.
Our long term outlook is our performance algorithm which we have and will deliver going forward and 2014 will be a year of steady improvement as we get back up to speed.
But make no mistake our leadership team is confident accountable our system will market well we will sell well and we are going to achieve our 2020 vision.
Now let me just take you through a quick tour of the world and I will ask Ahmet also to comment.
Starting with Asia I think China is going to sustain its growth.
India in terms of its macroeconomic outlook and I think we will continue to benefit from that.
In India I think there's election coming up and usually when there are elections there’s a little bit of easing of fiscal discipline I think that will play into a little bit of added disposable incomes.
In South-East Asia certainly we've seen quite a lot of political turmoil especially in Thailand.
I think that will as we go into 2014 my expectation is that that will ease a little bit.
Indonesia also there’s an election coming up but I think Indonesia is certainly having some macroeconomic issues that will probably continue into 2014.
And then Philippines I think we'll see some slightly improved outlook in the Philippines versus 2013.
In Japan I think obviously everyone is looking very closely at the new policies of the Prime Minister and his government.
There’s a new tax coming up but we’ll see how that impacts but certainly we all feel that are operating in Japan feel that there is some hope for a little bit of more inflation in the economy that will benefit also businesses like ours although recently then last economic numbers from Japan were a little bit below expectations.
And in Africa youngest continent we’re very well positioned and we feel that we will continue to grow well in the years to come in the African continent and benefit from also improvements in governance across the whole continent.
And in Eurasia there is elections coming up in Turkey.
Lots of again political issues in the Middle East will continue.
And Russia I think all Russians can be very proud of the Olympics that are taking place.
And I think that we will as we move forward as [our eyes are now] there in Russia looking at some of the great activations that we've had in our business.
And I think Russia our business will continue to grow in Russia with all the investments that we are making with our bottling partners.
Europe is a tale of -- continued tale of two cities.
It’s like a phase of seven zones I think the high unemployment and low growth is going to continue but it’s not going to get worse.
As far as Northern Europe Britain is certainly ahead of all the other economies in terms of the growth outlook.
And I think Germany also is in that area.
We will continue to benefit from the robustness of policies in those two economies and the rest of the continent is somewhat behind Germany and England.
And in Latin America again 2014 is going to be year leading into an election in early 2015.
We'll have also the benefit of the World Cup and our biggest [February activation] globally on the World Cup.
And Southern Cone Argentina Chile; we should continue to see the benefit of all the programs we have in place and also continued inflation environment in those two areas.
And Mexico I think President Pena Nieto’s programs are taking effect over the reforms both long-term I think that is a benefit to our business to the economy to the people of Mexico.
And again as I said in my commentary it's too early to say about the impact of the price increase we've had there.
So I hope that that gives you a good tour of the world.
And then finally in terms of our flagship market in the United States clearly the best right now as far as we can see the best western developed economy in the world we think we will see slightly improved mobility in the United States in 2014 versus 2013.
And we hope that will also mean a little bit of increased spending for consumer products as we go into 2014.
And again we will benefit from all the robustness in our marketing program and our increased expenditure and quality of marketing as we move into 2014 for our flagship market.
Ahmet you want to add some commentary? Yes.
I will add few things I guess to really compare some of these issues that have existed even last year how they are different now? For example emerging market currencies; when the first news on discontinuation of [paper] came out last year around May or June; there was a bit of a shock in emerging markets.
We see that over the last seven or eight months these emerging markets are sort of finding ways to deal with it by no means it’s certain by no means it’s perfect.
But it certainly feels a little bit more under control compared to when it first came up and the interest rate and things like that have been baked into those expectations.
So I guess the message there is countries and our business we're finding ways to deal with that new reality of less liquidity coming out of United States.
I would just add Muhtar to your comment on Europe north south divide that is very much true but we are sort of beginning to see sort of different shades of grey in the south as well.
There are some encouraging signs in Spain sort of less so in Italy at this point in time although there is a new Prime Minister there and we’re hopeful with the new programs to be announced if they are.
And the Eastern Europe it continues to struggle in terms of consumer confidence and economic.
So north continues to do well and south is even showing different performance now.
The other point that Muhtar mentioned is political uncertainty it's another common thing to many of our emerging markets.
They eventually could impact the economic realities but again so far in countries like Turkey and Thailand it’s been fine.
And let me just in the interest of giving time to other questions let me just stop it here.
Sandy do you want to add any commentary to North America.
I think it’s important to say in North America that we believe in the North American market we believe in the demographics we believe this is a growth market; we have grown in all but two quarters of the last 15 quarters in the United States.
We believe we can do better and we’re intent and thus we’ll be focused on achieving that.
Sandy? Yes.
Thanks Muhtar.
We have a great business in North America and our focus in accelerating the business is on our brands on our customers and on our capability.
And I’m really happy to be working with Irial and Paul and our all of our U.S.
bottlers.
I think Irial and Paul bring a tremendous amount of selling and executional energy that will help us build on our momentum.
On my end over the last six to seven weeks Paul and I have met with our major customers.
We’ve met with our bottlers and we’ve gone through the brand plant in detail looking at opportunities to focus and strengthen them and to move resources to emphasize advertising and brand building on our largest brands.
And I think with the plan in place our focus as a system Irial Paul and I and our bottlers is to improve all aspects of our execution whether it’s marketing or sales or in the marketplace.
And we believe as a result of that that we will improve steadily over time and we share the confidence that Muhtar expressed in the long term health of North America.
It’s a great market.
It will grow.
And I think we can be confident about our long term future there.
And our next question is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Just a follow up to Bill’s question.
I guess if we think about 2014 there is a lot of moving parts with exchange rates and some of the volatility in emerging markets.
Maybe Gary could you talk a little bit about how we should think about currency neutral and also maybe sort of neutral of the effects of structural change? Are you still looking at a currency neutral sort of on-algorithm year in operating profits? And also just some of the other major drivers behind volume that might influence that cost of goods sold inflation price mix country mix that sort of thing? I think that would be helpful.
Yes.
Bryan thanks and let me say back and go through all of those.
So let me start at the top when you’re the industry leader you have to believe in rational pricing and believe we should get pricing for our brands because our brands are worth it and we would expect to have positive price mix this year to go with the volume that we’ll have this year.
When you look at commodity it’s fairly benign from what we’re saying for 2014 so not a big deal.
But now the currency among the worst we’ve seen in years and there is not a whole lot you can do about it when all the emerging market currencies kind of melt down as they did earlier at the end of December or early January.
But with that said let me be very clear ours is a growth business is a business model that is built on growth and we know that we cannot save our way to prosperity.
We will have productivity but that productivity will be reinvested for growth and while we are reinvesting for growth in our marketing we have our goals are also in addition while we’re increasing the marketing we will also have a goal and is a goal up for this year up hitting our long term growth model this year.
So we’re going to significantly increase our marketing but at the same time the goal is we will hit long term growth model this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Thanks just one quick follow up to Gary’s question and then a question for Muhtar or Gary’s answer rather.
Gary does that include a Mexico impact in hitting your long-term algorithm in 2014? And then Muhtar responding to Gary’s question about ramping up the marketing I guess how do we view there is a sense out there in the market that given the headwinds for the category that adding more marketing could be sort of pushing on a string so to speak.
So what is it that you are seeing that says these headwinds that you are facing can be offset with higher marketing? Thanks.
John its Gary thanks for the question.
First as Muhtar said in the prepared remarks it's too early to tell what’s going to happen in Mexico.
We have planned around Mexico of what we believe is the most likely day.
But we have a portfolio of brands that are marketed and sold across 200 countries and our job is to manage that portfolio.
So unless something unforeseen should happen I think the answer has to be yes it includes what could happen to Mexico if that changes we’ll update you obviously but we’re going -- what we believe would happen today.
And just add to Gary’s answer and to the second part of your question John I’ll just tell you very simply that the Coca-Cola way is to grow our way to success and we invest for growth together with our [bumping] partners and we have great -- the greatest system in the world and we have had tremendous amount of experience to say that a good marketing good selling works for our business and it will work for our business.
We have numerous cases to prove that and we’re going to continue to build on our marketing in both quantity and quality.
This is a global increase in marketing and in every country that we operate in large or small we know it works and when we invest in marketing our global partners invest and feed on the street in more coolers in more trucks and more line and that’s what we see happening and that’s what we will see we believe happening to our business as we restore steady momentum in through 2014 and beyond.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Just a few questions first just the North America Gary the profitability decline in fourth quarter was pretty surprising.
So maybe you could give us a little bit of color in terms of the components of the profits decline in North America.
And just broadly in North America from a profitability perspective the business hasn’t really grown since the acquisition of the bottler.
So as you think about the next couple of years thinking about the refranchising opportunities and all the productivity savings are we at a point where we can actually see growth in this business from a profitability perspective in 2014? Or is this more of a transition year or so with the investment that’s going on? Judy its Gary let me take the first part of that question.
On the fourth quarter profit -- operating profit decline it was down 12% I think in the fourth quarter.
And by the way I know the answer to this one specifically because I asked the same question some time back and got into my new detail on it.
And 100% of that change is because of -- it's an all in OpEx or primarily all in OpEx and it’s what we’re cycling from 2012 there were some incentive compensation accrual reversals in the fourth quarter of 2012 that did not happen in 2013 and that cycling caused a significant change in OpEx swing year-on-year in the fourth quarter only and it’s what swung North America to that 12% operating income loss.
So I think it’s much more reasonable to actually look at North America look at it for the full year and you will get a better picture of actual performance versus the fourth quarter.
When you look at the full year then you will see -- that is where we’ve got some challenges as Muhtar said around volume and particularly in sparkling around diets and lights but that’s what we are specifically on.
Just let me add to in terms of the outlook and that is that as I said we are confident about and excited about first our performance algorithm worldwide but also in terms of steady improvement as we get back up to speed in the United States.
And I think that that will -- when we start restoring the momentum in the United States which we believe is going to happen well that will also bring the results in the -- financial results that we will be happier with as we move into 2014 and beyond.
It’s going to take a while this is not a fix -- an immediate fix but we know that it’s going to be a steady improvement.
And just in terms of the media investments is there any color you can give us in terms of the breakdown by regions by categories is North America likely to get the proportionate amount in terms of the media spending increase in 2014?  Can’t give you the specifics on the geographic mix Judy but as we announced it’s about $1 billion by 2016 and it is a global number.
And again there will be a good distribution and we will be again also looking and tracking through franchise leadership resulting also system increase and investments in all the key markets.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Hi I also wanted to touch on profit in North America.
It sounds like in 2013 you view the profit challenges as more driven from a volume perspective but given the diet soft drink where you seem to be more secular around longer term health concerns I am just wondering if going forward you may manage more for profitability and lean more on pricing than driving volume growth.
Is there any change as you look at the algorithm between pricing and volume and which metric you will focus on going forward?  Thanks Dara.
Sandy you want to take it and then [indiscernible] if you want to comment.
Yes I think the key to the North America growth algorithm is investing in our brands and our feet on the street and a key element to that is getting our pricing so that we can have the revenue to be able to reinvest in sustainable growth.
Where we had issues over the years in my experience in North America is when we did not get the price we needed when our marketing execution was not what it needed to be and therefore the feet on the street started to get reduced and ultimately it hurt sustainable growth.
Our plan going forward and it’s going to take some time and we're focused on improving it is to make sure that we get the price and that we execute the marketing well and feed the feet on the street which creates the virtuous cycle in the United States just like it does around the world.
[Gary] do you want to add to that? I guess the only comment I would say Muhtar already mentioned that we are an industry leader and industry leaders have to set the tone in terms of price in terms of how to market their brands in any given market.
And actually 50 days in less than 50 days into my new involvement in North America I am really excited about the future.
I am excited about the enthusiasm the passion of our people.
Our job mine Paul’s Sandy’s is really is to make sure that excitement translates into performance and into results.
And as Sandy said it’s not going to happen overnight but I feel we've already started on the journey and over the next quarters the next couple of years you will see very positive momentum in our market in North America.
And then move to our post the investment in Green Mountain I was just hoping to get an update on how important a role acquisitions might play in meeting your 2020 vision goals? You mentioned the focus on partnerships earlier in the call I was hoping you could elaborate there and if acquisitions are greater priority here given some of the difficult macro-conditions and somewhat favourable environment with your healthy balance sheet and still lower rate here.
Look nothing different than before so no change.
I think we're obviously very excited with the new opportunities for consumption as will be brought to us by the partnership with Green Mountain over time.
I think the key is to feel the power of partnerships.
The Coca-Cola Company and System is an incredible integration of power of partnerships in every respect and therefore this is yet another one.
And so think about if you look at household consumptions in particularly Western markets there is a tremendous opportunity to gain incremental consumption occasions for our brand through these kind of partnerships and this is what the Green Mountain partnership is all about.
When you look at how beverages are consumed at home and when you look at trends in the next 10 years people are going to spend more time at home.
They are going to work more from home.
Home is going to be an even more important place for people for consumers and I think we need to present there with different technologies different packaging different ways to serve our brands and that’s why this is important and partnerships like these are going to be important for us over time going forward.
And so our thinking has not really evolved or changed in terms of bolt-on acquisitions if we see opportunities we will get them like InneSense like [Ocean] and so forth.
And we will continue to seek new power of partnerships to leverage new power of partnerships also going into the remaining part of our 2020 vision for the next six years.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
So I guess the frustration I am hearing from many investors and a lot of questions on this call is that there is a feeling that the Company isn’t doing enough to change itself despite that the world around it has really changed and many like us we secularly to sort of continued emphasis on the Coca-Cola way in history which is respectable in volumes market shares and even more marketing blaming short-term externalities but it’s been a little while now that we’ve seen tougher volumes North America will profit continue to shrink there is only $1 billion cost savings when some competitors are doing more from a pro rata basis.
There is limited movement on refranchising and help innovation so far.
So I guess might the company ever believe that it needs to focus on new levers of shareholder value creation like pricing up even more lower promotions massive cost cutting big portfolio innovation change and indeed returning more cash to shareholders.
So I know there’s lots there but should investors expect bigger bolder change that pay out to meet this truly different world and so what specifically should we be looking for to just kind of sharing your confidence about the story or should we just expect kind of same status quo going forward? First Ali I disagree with you.
I think we have a great portfolio brand we have a great system the best consumer product system in the world and I believe that our programs will work and had worked.
We have significantly outperformed and grown since 2012 and yes we’ve had speed bump and certainly that makes us even more focused and more resolute to continue on our road to 2020.
And I think that we have -- I will share at CAGNY on Friday the real reasons why we believe in our future and so that’s all I would say.
But I don’t disagree with you about the strength of the brands at all actually Muhtar.
And I don’t disagree with you about the strength of the system.
I’m just looking the results and I’m trying to figure out whether enough is changing enough is different and whether you guys do actually view the world is different enough and [indiscernible] but I actually don’t disagree with you.
I understand and I understand it’s easy for people to have very short memories but we have the experience and we know what we are doing and we will continue to do what we believe and we are focused and we will execute the best and we will achieve our 2020 vision that’s what this is all about.
So that’s what I would say and we have talked about pricing you’ve heard all colleagues also talked about pricing and I think we don’t want to repeat ourselves.
Thank you Gary Ahmet Sandy Irial and Jackson we’ve delivered sound full year financial results.
We’re implementing the strategic actions that will enable us to restore momentum in 2014 and we see many reasons to believe that we can accelerate our growth over time achieve our long-term growth model targets and realize our 2020 vision.
Our global beverage industry is healthy the trends that have historically fuelled this continue to be strong and our global systems commitment and reach are unparalleled.
This commitment has never wavered and the strategic decision that we have made over recent years have not only enabled us to deliver solid financial results that also advanced our competitive position enhanced our capabilities and strengthened our result as a global system to achieve our 2020 vision.
That is our promise to our investors to our customers to our consumers and the daily objective of the more than 700 000 associates of The Coca Cola system all around the world.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our Company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola’s Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I now would like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer who as you know has elected to retire next month as well as Kathy Waller who will be recommended for the role of CFO at next week’s Board meeting.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning we will turn the call over to you for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President Global Chief Customer Officer and President Coca-Cola America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments and Supply Chain will also be available for the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objective and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statement contained in our earnings release and in the company’s most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which maybe referred to by our senior executives during this morning’s discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you joining us for an update on our first quarter performance.
As you know we started 2014 with a clear objective of restoring the momentum of our global business.
This morning I’m pleased to report that our growth momentum is improving in line with our expectations.
In the midst of continued headwinds we achieved sequentially stronger 2% volume cycling 4% volume growth in the prior year quarter despite the shift of the Easter holiday into the second quarter of this year.
Comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 2% after excluding the impact of structural items growth of an incremental 100 million unit cases or the equivalent of 27 million incremental servings per each day and both volume and value share gains in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages with value share gains ahead of volume share gains.
These topline results underscore our system’s ability to leverage our occasion brand price pack channel architecture across our entire portfolio of leading brands.
They are also a reflection of our ability to drive performance improve incidents and simultaneously enhance price mix which increased 2% globally in the quarter and we increased our marketing investments while decreasing other SG&amp;A costs consistent with our commitment to identify savings opportunities and to increase support for our brands.
From a geographic perspective volume in our developed markets was down 1%.
However volume grew in key developed markets including Japan and Australia while volume in North America was even.
Importantly volume grew 3% in our developing and emerging markets with China up 12% and Brazil up 4%.
Both India and Russia also grew volume in the mid single-digit range while gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink volume and value share.
We remained steadfastly focused on the five strategic priorities we announced on our fourth quarter earnings call and later which I outlined at CAGNY.
As a reminder those five strategic priorities are as follows.
Firstly to accelerate sparkling growth led by Coca-Cola strategically expand our portfolio -- profitable sales portfolio thirdly increase brand investments by maximizing productivity fourth win at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our system and last but not least invest in our next-generation of leaders.
I’ll devote the majority of my remarks today to talking about these strategies and the progress we’re making in restoring our momentum.
As usual you’ll find further operating group performance details in our earnings press release issued earlier this morning.
These five important strategic priorities serve as a means to further sharpen our focus.
They also serve as beacons to collectively align the efforts of our more than 700 000 system associates all around the world.
Now beginning with our first priority we are determined to accelerate sparkling beverage growth led by Coca-Cola and we’ve established comprehensive strategies to do so.
The foundation of this plan is to invest in and deliver great marketing to support our sparking brand.
We’re adding a sharpened focus with our bottling partners to increase sparkling brand penetration as well as cold drink availability.
We’re overlaying disciplined occasion brand price packed channel strategies supported by revenue growth management capabilities to drive sustained value growth.
We’re continuously innovating to meet evolving consumer needs and also we’re engaging with partners and stakeholders to promote trust and to address category misperception.
These strategies to accelerate sparkling growth are solid and we expect to see improving results throughout the year.
Highlights of actions we took in this past quarter included terrific Sochi Olympics Campaign executed across all over Russia supported by solid trade activations that resulted in 7% sparkling volume growth and 9% brand Coca-Cola growth the 17th consecutive quarter of growth for brand Coke.
A successful recruitment strategy in China where immediate consumption tax grow sparkling volume growth of 6% brand Coke growth of 3% and transaction growth of 10% and ongoing sparking innovation in Japan that contributed to 3% sparkling growth in the first quarter.
We clearly see growth potential in the sparkling category and along with our system partners we are investing in the wide-ranging sparkling innovation world-class marketing and unparalleled local execution to satisfy our consumers thrust for refreshment.
It is still early in our journey to restore sparkling momentum yet we are tenaciously focused on building and improving upon this quarter’s performance.
This is underscored by the programs and the marketing campaigns that are already underway in the second quarter like our FIFA World Cup Campaign that has 175 countries participating the broadest reach of any campaign in Coca-Cola’s history.
We’re happy to share that the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour is visiting the United States this week with stops in Washington D.C.
yesterday Miami today and Atlanta and LA later in the week from here the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour is heading to Brazil on the final leg of its 90-country journey.
The activation of this exciting global property coupled with initiatives such as our Share a Coke program with individualized personalized Coca-Cola bottles and cans continue support and innovation on Sprite and Fanta and a wide range of new package introductions across our entire sparkling portfolio is going to bring excitement and engagement to our sparkling brands all around the world.
Moving now to our second priority to strategically expand our profitable still beverage portfolio.
Our still beverage brands account for approximately a quarter of our total global volume currently.
Today we are the global value leader in still beverages with $11 billion still brands more than any of our competitors.
In the first quarter of this year our still beverage volume grew 8% while gaining both volume and value share.
Given our leadership position in the industry we are keenly focused on working with our global system partners to build strong profitable and competitively advantaged brands in fast growing and profitable still beverage category.
We’re building on our leading juices and juice drinks portfolio growing volume 3% in the quarter.
This was fueled by exceptional brands like Simply which grew double digits in North America and Minute Maid Pulpy which grew 8% in China.
This also marks our 9th consecutive quarter of value share gains in juices and juice drinks.
Our growth global still -- global tea portfolio grew 4% as we delivered double-digit growth across Honest and Gold Peak in North America as well as Ayataka and Sokenbicha in China -- in Japan I beg your pardon.
This resulted in the 10th consecutive quarter of global ready-to-drink value share gains in tea.
We are leveraging our packaging leadership to expand our PlantBottle and crushable bottle packaging creating an important point of value differentiation for brands ranging from Dasani North America to I Lohas in Japan and we are developing a new profit enhancing beverage drop platform that now includes the Dasani Powerade Minute Maid and VitaminWater brands.
As you will note we continue to innovate across our still portfolio to further drive and enhance our leading position.
Our third strategic priority is to increase brand investments by maximizing productivity.
On the brand side and as announced earlier this year we will grow our investments by $400 million in 2014 and by $1 billion by 2016.
We began to ramp up our investments in the first quarter to support robust marketing programs like our Sochi Winter Olympics campaign across multiple markets.
We’re also increasing our media investments and quality in North America as evidenced by our Super Bowl ads.
It’s beautiful and going all the way.
In Latin America the first of our operating groups to launch the FIFA World Cup activation viral marketing efforts targeting Millennials included short films that have already exceeded 10 million views on YouTube.
And also our worldwide marketing team is collaborating with our partners to deliver enhanced consumer experiences.
A couple of examples that leveraged new technology platforms include Misfit Wearables which produces the Shine fitness tracker and Spotify the world’s leading on-demand music streaming service.
Our strategic partnerships with these two companies in which we’ve made minority equity investments will enable us to forge even more meaningful connections with our consumers.
While it’s too early to speak to results from our increased level of investments we are confident in our plans and approach which is based on robust analytics across our top markets.
The insights from this analysis have equipped us with necessary information to prioritize both the quantity and quality of our investments across markets across brands and across media channels.
With regards to productivity we are diligently seeking identifying and securing efficiencies across all parts of the business.
This effort is focused on standardizing and streamlining our processes while also clarifying roles and accountabilities.
Let me just provide you with three examples of how we’re doing this across North America.
We’ve instituted an ownership cost management focus thanks to which our associates are identifying and delivering significant savings.
Second about 50% of our plants in North America have completed an operational excellence diagnostic with the remainder scheduled to do so by 2015.
This is resulting in savings of approximately $1 million for each location and following each implementation to focus on year-over-year productivity continues.
And third in our warehouse and delivery operations we’ve focused on our layout and process standardization.
Thanks to initiatives ranging from real-time data transfer to smart selling we can now optimize warehouse capacity work more efficiently and reduce out-of-stocks.
These are just a few examples of the productivity work that we’re doing to identify and extract savings that will be redeployed and reinvested to drive long-term growth.
We’ve also made progress on our fourth priority which is to win at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our system.
Our focus on winning at the point-of-sale is not new.
What is new is the increased emphasis on flawless execution across our system.
This includes an accelerated focus on capturing new outlook and greater alignment in the execution of new brand and packaged launches.
We’re also intent on exceeding our Right Execution Daily or RED targets and ensuring that our products are well placed as well as merchandized to optimize our sales.
This fourth priority emphasizes the importance of capability building and collaboration on all frontlines where our sales associates drivers merchandisers are often the final link in ensuring that our Coca-Cola and all our brands are always within an arm’s reach of desire.
The first quarter we saw many concrete examples of how together with our bottling partners we are winning at the point-of-sale including excellent execution of our Sochi marketing campaign leading to significant share gains across almost all beverage categories in Russia occasion brand price pack channel architecture changes in many countries including a significant focus on immediate consumption package reductions leading to immediate consumption volume growth ahead of future consumption growth and an improved RED penetration and scores.
Right Execution Daily now covers approximately 40% of our volume an increase of about three points over the past year.
And our FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour program has now reached 90 countries where our bottling partners have activated the program in 400 000 retail outlets.
Importantly the partnership required to win at the point-of-sale extends beyond our bottling partners to include our customers the more than 24 million retail outlets that we proudly visit on a weekly basis.
We are continuously collaborating with our customers to identify ways to add value to their business.
Our fifth and final priority is to invest in our next generation of leaders both here in the U.S.
and all across the world.
In this context I want to remind everyone that today is Gary’s last quarterly earnings call and I want to commend and acknowledge him on an outstanding 14 years as the Coca-Cola Company’s CFO.
e sincerely thank Gary for his many years of outstanding leadership service his steady focus countless insights and the enormous value he has helped to generate for our company and all of our shareowners.
Collectively he and his finance leadership team have carried out a thoughtful and purposeful transition.
I’m going to recommend that our Board elect Kathy Waller as our new CFO next week.
And this is a great example of the talented and experienced bench strength that we are building with our next generation of talented leaders.
I hope all of you welcome Kathy to the role of Chief Financial Officer.
As our fifth priority outlines we’re committed to investing in our next generation of leaders across all levels of the Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola system.
So as you can see we’re making progress across each of these clinical strategic priorities and look forward to providing you with further update as we progress throughout this year.
Now let me address a couple of other topics across our operating groups.
First there is the question of profitability in North America where comparable currency neutral operating income declined 8% in the quarter.
This decline was largely due to the impact of one less selling day and the shift of Easter into the second quarter.
We’ve been encouraged by the results of targeted marketing efforts in several North American markets in recent months.
And we’re excited about the trends that we are seeing.
Enhanced marketing and disciplined retail pricing strategies in North America resulted in volume that was even to brand Coca-Cola.
At the same time we achieved a 2% increase in sparkling price/mix.
We also gained sparkling value share ahead of volume share making this our 16th consecutive quarter of value share gain.
Our priorities in North Americas remain very clear.
As we shared in our year end call our focus remains on building strong brands creating customer value and enhancing our capabilities.
We’re streamlining the way we work and identifying ways to operate more effectively and efficiently in our sales warehouse and delivery operations.
I also want to speak to our results in Europe where our volume was down 4% as our business was adversely impacted due to the Easter shift and by ongoing macroeconomic challenges.
Volume in France increased 4% and volume in Germany was even with prior year.
During the quarter our Europe group realized 10 points of price/mix thanks to the consolidation of Innocent and to a broad focus on earnings price -- earning price across our business units in Europe.
We seek to continuously earn price/mix by balancing disciplined pricing with packaging changes.
A recent example of this is the transition from a straight-wall 2-liter to a contour 1.75-liter at the same price in Great Britain at the end of the first quarter.
As we look ahead we’re cautiously optimistic about our outlook in Europe despite the continuing volatile operating environment.
The strong and integrated programs that we have developed together with our bottling partners fuel this optimism.
These initiatives will help us leverage our marketing assets implement critical and innovative packaging and dispensing initiatives and execute impactful marketing programs during the year to come.
Number of these initiatives in Europe began in the first quarter including the FIFA World Cup promotions and three-time World Cup winner Germany offering our Coke Zero consumers a chance to win one of the 200 tickets to Brazil a new Fanta marketing campaign and in-and-out flavors successfully launched in Austria Switzerland Romania and Hungary as well as Cappy Pulpy’s geographical expansion in the southern European belt.
However we’re seeing most of the benefit coming during the remainder of the year due to various factors such as the timing of Easter a ramp-up in World Cup activations as well as the timing and intensity of our marketing programs.
Before handing over the call to Gary I want to also remind you about our recently announced partnership with Keurig Green Mountain which closed in the first quarter.
We believe Keurig Green Mountain is the perfect strategic partner to collaborate with to capitalize on the many opportunities we see available in the market and we look forward to providing you with further updates later in the year.
As I complete my prepared remarks I want to reinforce that there is so much runway ahead of us and the Coca-Cola system is well positioned to capture more than our fair share of growth.
This is a business that has barely tapped into its full potential.
Globally consumer populations are growing purchasing power is increasing and spreading to a new middle class.
Urbanization continues to intensify and lifestyles and consumer preferences are changing in ways that significantly favor our expanding and evolving beverage portfolio.
We have an unparalleled reach with leading global brands and a bottling system that is investing for sustainable growth.
Having said that we do not take anything for granted.
We fully understand that attaining our 2020 Vision will require more than just counting on industry growth.
Indeed it is up to all of us up to our global system leaders and up to each of our associates to make the right decisions and to take the right actions that are going to enable us to seize the abundant opportunities that are before us.
Gary will now provide you with some additional details on our first quarter financial performance.
Thanks Muhtar and good morning everyone.
In the first quarter of this year we began executing and delivering the strategic plan that we outlined and shared with you on our 2013 year end call and at the CAGNY and CAGE Investor Conferences earlier this year.
Our clear and focused commitment remains a long-term value creation and the strategic priorities which Muhtar just outlined today and they are tailored to do just that.
While much work remains to be done we’re confident in our strategies and are fully committed to this plan as we firmly believe that the Coca-Cola Company is a sustainable and great long-term growth business.
As mentioned we grew unit case volume 2% a sequential improvement from last quarter and cycling 4% growth in the prior year.
Global price mix increased by 2% and we gained both volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in the first quarter a constructive start towards restoring our momentum in 2014.
Comparable currency neutral net revenue grew 2% after excluding structural items while concentrate sales were even with the prior year.
We do expect concentrate sales and unit case sales to be in line for the full year.
Comparable currency neutral operating income grew a solid 7% after excluding structural items while also including an increase in marketing investments in support of our brands.
Comparable currency neutral earnings per share grew 5% with currency creating a 10 point headwind on comparable EPS.
And for the math people in the room you’ll notice that comparable EPS declined 4% implying a 9 point headwind.
So I just wanted to point out that the 10 point headwind is in the rounding.
We generated $1.1 billion in cash from operations and our net share repurchases through the first quarter were $713 million.
Our cash from operations increased significantly versus the prior year quarter primarily because we made a large contribution to our pension plan in the first quarter of last year.
Cash from operations also benefited from efficient management of working capital and these benefits were partially offset by unfavorable exchange.
Because our largest pension plan is currently fully funded I do not foresee any significant cash contributions to our pension plan in the near term.
As it relates to overall cash management as we have discussed in the past we follow disciplined guidelines for how we use our cash to create sustainable shareowner value.
First we’re reinvesting in the business to further strengthen the equity of our brands and to accelerate growth.
This includes capital investments and new cooler placements route-to-market enhancements brand and packaging innovations and marketing investments that include not only more marketing but better quality marketing as well.
Importantly along with our increased investments our bottling partners are also stepping up their investments thus further enhancing growth for the overall system.
Second we continue to reward shareowners by paying a healthy dividend which is $1.22 per share this year a 9% increase over last year.
It’s worth noting that we’ve increased our dividend every year for more than half a century.
Third we evaluate opportunities to grow through bolt-on acquisitions strategic partnerships and value-added joint ventures when appropriate.
Recent examples include the Keurig Green Mountain partnership which opens up an exciting new packaging format for our brands investments to further enhance our leading juice portfolio like Innocent and Rani and investments that allow us to broaden our reach like ZICO and Core Power.
And finally we conduct meaningful regular share repurchase.
As we look to the second quarter of 2014 we plan on continuing to execute our five strategic priorities and our full year plan remains firmly intact.
First let me address operating leverage.
As you can see in our release we achieved four points of operating expense leverage in the quarter as we benefited from the timing of year-over-year expenses.
Consistent with what we shared with you on our year end 2013 call our outlook for operating expense leverage for the full year 2014 has not changed.
We expect to achieve even the slightly positive operating expense leverage for the full year as we increase brand investments.
Secondly let me address the outlook for currency.
We now estimate based on current spot rates and hedging that currencies will have a seven point headwind on operating income both in the second quarter and for the full year.
Our analysis reflects and includes the negative impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation partly offset by improvements in other currencies as compared to the outlook we provided at the time of our year end earnings release.
While we are very cautious in forecasting currency movements we have managed through more than $2 billion of currency headwinds at the topline in the last two years.
And as you know we anticipate significant currency headwinds for the remainder of this year.
As we look further into the future we think it is unlikely that we’ll have the same level of headwinds going forward.
Third I would like to comment on structural change.
As we previously disclosed the bottling transactions completed in 2013 are anticipated to have an unfavorable 1% structural impact on both our full year 2014 revenues and operating income.
As a reminder this impact hits the first and second quarter results as the Brazilian bottler transaction took place on July 3rd of last year.
As Muhtar noted earlier I have elected to retire next month after a very special and memorable 20 years at the Coca-Cola Company.
And I want to congratulate Kathy Waller on being recommended to the Board for election as the company’s new CFO and to reinforce my full confidence in her leadership in this position given her 25 years at the company.
I have to say as a retiring officer with this company it is comforting to know that I leave the CFO office in great hands and that we have built a talented and deep finance leadership organization that will support both Kathy and Muhtar.
It also gives me great comfort to look around this room this morning during our conference call with Muhtar Irial Ahmet Sandy Kathy and Jackson and to think about the experience focus and dedication of this company’s senior leadership.
It’s been a tremendous honor to serve as CFO of the Coca-Cola Company over the past 14 years and I have greatly enjoyed building long lasting relationships with all of you across our investment community.
In closing I’ll also leave you with a few thoughts.
First I have every confidence that our ability to reignite sparkling growth beginning with brand Coca-Cola.
Second we are continuing to build leadership positions in still beverages much like we have done in the sparkling category since 1886.
And third our franchise system is not only the strongest it has ever been but it also provides us with a global footprint and an invaluable local resource all at the heart of a real value creation model.
And lastly there is nothing quite as refreshing as an ice cold Coca-Cola.
So to all of you on this call I sincerely thank you for your candor your partnership and your thoughtful questions over the last 14 years.
And I encourage you to continue to reach out to the senior leadership team for meaningful dialogue or ways to further enhance our business and to build long-term value for you and all of our shareowners.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question today is from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning and congratulations again Gary and Kathy.
Thank you Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Muhtar if you could talk about what gives you the confidence that Coke can hit its long-term growth algorithm in 2014 specifically? And also when you look at the improving momentum during the first quarter how much would you attribute to any relief you are seeing in external headwinds versus the impact of the internal actions that you are taking? Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning.
First let me say again that I am pleased to report that our growth momentum is improving in line with our expectations.
And in the midst of still continued volatility headwinds achieving sequentially stronger 2% volume growth that means delivering an incremental 100 million unit cases in the past 90 days or so that means incrementally every single day an additional 27 million actual servings for each day.
As the base grows we are still very proud that we can continue to drive growth.
And this is a quarter that’s where Easter has shifted where we’re cycling 4% from prior year whereas as I said macro volatility continued and where we had the harshest winter in the northern hemisphere particularly in the U.S.
We don’t think this is a great result but satisfying as one step in the right direction to restore momentum.
Germany U.S.
was flat in the past quarter.
We think given what we went through and what economies and consumer and climate.
Turkey was up 2% Japan was up 3% France was up 4% Brazil was up 4% India and Russia was up 6% China was up 12%.
These show and give us the proof points that our actions are working.
And I think this is the quarter again where only a small fraction of our incremental marketing was deployed.
I would say probably around -- so 5% of our total incremental marketing for the year was deployed in this first -- in this quarter.
As we ramp up the quality and also quantity of our marketing I believe that certainly we are going to drive better alignment.
We have really good plans in place fully aligned with our bottling partners and I would be disappointed as would be all my colleagues and associates if we don’t go back into the corridor of our long-term growth algorithm for volume growth.
But also importantly we are driving not just volume growth but we are driving immediate consumption growth which is really important for our business.
When you look at say in this past quarter our top five countries growing as China up 18% in IC growth Indonesia up 9% in IC growth Vietnam up 8% Brazil up 5%.
These are really important numbers because it’s sustainable growth it’s profitable growth and it’s growth in transactions which is directly married to the health of the brands and health of our portfolio.
So from that perspective again I want to just register a cautious optimism that I feel we would be disappointed if we do not fall back into the corridor of our long-term growth algorithm for the remainder of the year in terms of the volume growth picture and also the other key metrics that follow on from there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning.
And Gary and Kathy both -- congratulations to both of you.
Thanks Bryan.
Just wanted to drill in a little bit further on Latin America and I guess sort of three topics.
One in Mexico with volumes -- the volume decline was a little bit less than we thought so if you could just talk about whether -- what we are seeing now is sort of the expected elasticity or if there is something else in the future that might change the elasticity so has the consumer really seen the full effect of the pricing? And then second if you could just talk a little bit about some of the drivers of price-mix in the Latin America segment in the quarter how much of it was driven by Venezuela? And then finally just in terms of the Brazil comp being better sequentially how much of that do you think is just that maybe the consumer is a little bit better was there anything specific that Coke did in the first quarter to drive the better performance in Brazil? Bryan good morning.
Last question first on Brazil.
I think Brazil was out the gate first in terms of the FIFA World Cup activation a lot of noise around that lot of activation in stores.
And I think that certainly we also see a little less malaise in terms of the macro environment.
And again in terms of also the relationship between durables and non-durable consumer goods was a little bit more in favor for us.
So we feel that’s going to continue and that Brazil will have a better year and I think the government is also aware of what they need to do as they lead into one of the biggest events in their history which is hosting a memorable event like the World Cup.
As far as Mexico is concerned I think sparkling volume for us was sort of in the mid-single digits decline for the first quarter.
The important thing here is that because of the strength of our brands because of also the incredible richness of our package portfolio and our occasion brand price pack channel architecture the strength of that in Mexico we are seeing that we are gaining market share versus both local competitors and our international competitor in Mexico as well.
And again we could start -- till early days related to Mexico but I would say that we are again executing with great precision and passion in Mexico with our great bottling partners.
And then in terms of price-mix including that favorable geographic mix other points came as a result of high inflation in local markets.
And again I’ll ask Gary to comment related to the Venezuela piece.
Bryan Venezuela definitely contributed positively in the quarter to positive price-mix.
Now with going forward that will no longer really be the case because we have adjusted the -- as of the end of the quarter we have adjusted the exchange rate that will be using the 10.8 exchange rate going forward for most of our revenues a large part of the revenues in Venezuela.
So that will come down but that impact is included in the latest currency forecast that I gave you.
So again some of the other currencies actually have improved from what we talked about in the February call that offset now by Venezuela.
So still at the same 7% impact.
As we are modeling price-mix in Latin America just going forward there is some price-mix in there that is positive excluding Venezuela I guess that was what I was after? Yes there’s definitely positive price-mix going in there.
And I think the other thing to point out and Muhtar said it I said it but I think it’s really important as you look at this quarter how we drove value share ahead of volume share.
So we are definitely focused on rational pricing across the world and getting our earning price.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Faucher with JPMC.
Thank you very much.
And Gary it’s been great over the last 14 years so best of luck as you move forward and Kathy looking forward to working with you as well.
Thanks John.
Gary I had to finish off with sort of one accounting question here so you guys drove tremendous SG&amp;A leverage in the quarter and you talked a little bit about sort of how you haven’t put a whole lot of marketing spend to work yet.
So can you walk us through may be how we should think about the sales curve over the next couple of quarters and what we should look for on the SG&amp;A line as we look to model out the balance of the year? Thanks.
I’ll try John and we’ll see how this goes.
But basically there let’s go to marketing first and let’s talk about it in two different ways.
One is how much of the marketing is actually in the market and that’s what Muhtar was referring to how much of the marketing is actually hitting the consumer and a lot of our incremental spend actually has not hit the consumer yet it’s much more weighted starting in the second quarter on through Q4.
A lot of the first quarter really focused on getting the quality of our marketing up and that’s what we think.
That is different from the way we account for marketing and marketing as you reference is on the sales curve.
So on the sales curve that incremental marketing is included in what we expensed in the first quarter.
Now then we get into the marketing that we are cycling quarter by quarter from last year.
And so it was an increase in marketing in the first quarter the increase will significantly grow during the year based on what we are cycling.
That is part of what I said that 4 points of operating leverage will go to even the slightly positive and we are also benefiting from some other timing in the first quarter in just some of the OpEx expenses as well.
Okay.
And then Muhtar if I could ask you a follow-up question on you talked about the strength of the bottling systems and obviously the equity income line is getting hit by FX but we have seen some comments from Amatil in terms of what’s going on there and then also SAB talked about cutting some positions in their soft drink business.
Can you just talk a little bit about the mood of the bottlers and what they’re seeing now and how we should look at some of the headwinds they’re facing in the shorter term and how that may be will differ with what happens in the longer term there? Thank you.
Yes.
I would say the mood is positive in terms of their willingness to invest their appetite for new territories.
I’ve always -- you’ve heard me say this before in terms of litmus test for the health of the business.
There is a lot of appetite for growing horizontally in territory and trying to get expand.
And I think in terms of the quality of our marketing in terms of the quantity of our marketing I feel that based on all the bottlers that I have questioned in this past quarter I feel good I feel positive about the sentiment both here in the United States as we start our path to franchising and as we look at how we expand and how we hasten the pace of franchising but also across the world.
I’ve recently been with many bottling leaders and talked to many of them.
We have a global system meeting next month also where about 50 of the top bottlers get together with their CEOs and Chairman.
And we are there to further align our plans for 2015 and beyond but I feel good related to the plans in place related to everyone’s desire to execute better and to invest more into the future.
And again based on the investments that have gone into the marketplace in the third and fourth quarter of last year I feel -- that’s why I feel confident that you are going to see us back into the corridor of the 3% to 4% long-term growth algorithm for the balance of the year as we keep restoring momentum.
So that’s what I would say.
Do we have some pockets of challenges? You mentioned them Coca-Cola Amatil.
I feel again very cautiously optimistic as Alison Watkins assumes a new role there and we are working very closely with her and her team.
And again we are very much aligned to how we move forward with SABMiller and their management team related to their non-alcoholic beverage business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And I also echo my congratulations to Kathy and Gary it’s been great we will miss you.
Thank you Judy.
Thank you.
So just wanted to may be delve a little bit into Europe in the quarter and the question number one just relating to Great Britain obviously sparkling being down double-digits.
If you can give us some context of trends that you’ve seen throughout the quarter and sort of strip out some of the one-off factors with respect to the Easter timing as well as some of the transition into the 1.75 liter packaging and whether you’re seeing some improvement there.
And then just in terms of Southern Europe we are hearing more from some of the consumer companies that things are trending a little bit better in markets like Spain and Portugal.
So may be you can also just give us whether we are seeing a similar improvement for your business in that part of Europe? Thanks Judy.
I will ask Ahmet to give you a response on to your question.
Ahmet? Thanks Judy.
Yeah the results obviously for Europe for the first quarter was less than what we would have desired with minus 4%.
A lot of things came into play with that.
You mentioned the Easter obviously that was definitely a factor and Muhtar has mentioned the transition into a new future consumption back in GB.
I would add to that that there was sort of a pricing activity in the marketplace on future consumption facts that had also had some impact and we are in very close discussion on alignments with our bottlers to make sure that we actually sort of respond in a way that we maintain rational pricing in the marketplace but also balance volume growth and value growth at the same time so that was one.
You’ve mentioned Southern Europe the slight improvement that everybody sees in Iberia and Spain that we see as well.
Our numbers had a bit of noise and it’s with regards to the strike in our Iberian bottling partners that you all have heard about before.
We’ve had great mitigation plans in place and executed them and the negotiations at all the sites the restructuring is expected to end in May and we will continue to see improvements in our Iberian business as well.
So we expect as we move into quarter two remove the effect of Easter fully implement OBPPC in GB and continue to finish our restructuring in Spain.
We expect to see improvements in Europe over the next quarter and the rest of the year.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I can just follow-up on North American just on the pricing side.
So sparkling up 2% seems encouraging but the broader North American pricing kind of being flattish.
How should we think about that going forward? Do you expect to see the still pricing being a little bit more pressured or do we see improvements there going forward for the broader North American pricing turning positive? Yeah.
Judy this is Muhtar.
Let me just frame again.
Just a couple of important takeaways for Britain’s rational pricing.
It was really the theme for us in Q1 and the strength of our marketing program the strength of our commercial program leaves us to believe that we will see improvement as we go into Q2 and Q3 and Q4 in Britain.
That will take a while I would say.
Again the same phrase and motto for our U.S.
business rational pricing that’s the takeaway and we had 2% to 3% price mix in our sparkling portfolio in the U.S.
and you’ll see that continuing.
And I will ask Sandy to -- and Irial to reflect on our further details on that.
Thanks Muhtar.
The pricing we expect pricing for the full year in sparkling to actually improve from the first quarter.
Our plans are in place with our customers the market is rationale our focus on immediate consumption growth will drive mix and our rate should continue to be healthy and even improved as we move through the second quarter and into the third quarter where we’re lapping some promotional activity.
So that’s point one.
Point two is on still the case packed water business continues to grow so it pulls down mix.
We see opportunities however on a targeted basis in our can sales and improved pricing and we’ll take action to do that.
Paul Irial and I see opportunities on a category-by-category basis.
And then finally in our chilled juice business we’ve just fielded an increase to respond to the commodity issues with orange juice in Florida and that’s taking root and our juice business continues to be advantage from a share perspective.
And I think all of that wraps up from the pricing standpoint to a much more favorable profit outlook for the full year.
I mean we saw some timing related issues.
And obviously we’ve talked about having one last selling day in the first quarter but all of that’s going to come together with our price and volume plan for the year to produce profit growth for the full year.
Irial? Good.
The only add I’d give is we’re about building a long-term sustainable profitable business in the U.S.
And to do that with most of the balance of pricing and volume growth and pricing is a really critical part of that.
And we will in this year end up with sparkling to 2% to 3% range in pricing or price/mix I should say.
And that’s really is and that’s what we’re focused on that’s what Sandy and the team Paul and the team all of us together are focused on delivering that delivering a healthy business that’s going back to growth as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could comment on the performance of your key markets in Asia and particularly China and Indonesia.
The China volumes have rebounded quite strongly now for two or three quarters and I was just hoping you could shed some light on what’s being driving that? Whether the new strategy the new team that’s being put in place there whether that’s all paying off or whether it’s really mostly due to relatively low comparison basis still.
And then similar question on Indonesia volumes continue to be strong there just wondering what’s driving that? Yeah.
Michael that’s Muhtar.
I’ll say just a couple of top line and then ask again Ahmet to contribute.
But yeah I’ll repeat what I said about IC particularly pleasing was China IC was up 18% Indonesia IC was up 9% Vietnam up 8%.
These are really important for us as we drive profitable growth in our business.
And again our newly architected packaging our portfolio in China is really working with the smaller packs and the new price points.
And I think also the new team certainly is really delivering what we expect of them as well as our bottlers with renewed focus.
Both our bottling investments group but also Swire as well as Copco really doing a good job in the first quarter.
And I think lot of really good investments and activity and commercial leadership is in place to continue to drive that momentum both in the stills as well as in the sparkling portfolio in China.
And so again Ahmet if you want to just highlight… Yeah.
I think Michael you listed a lot of reasons that my headline will be as all of the above but let me color it a little bit.
Certainly the new team and the new strategy that we covered with you last year is really coming together nicely.
And we’re happy with the quality of the growth sparkling’s growing juices are growing and those are the category that we told you that we were betting on for our growth in China.
You might see growth in waters that is an important category.
But we’ve just had some recent launches into a 2RMB water which improves the profitability of that very very early days and it’s doing well.
Also we’re quite encouraged with again very early results on some of our innovation which Schweppes be plus and just couple of weeks out the plant is our isotonic.
So we’re getting that good mix of sparkling juices and innovations that is beginning to work for us.
I would just caution us though you did mention the easier cycle race from last year that is definitely the case and 12% growth we’re very happy with.
But we would expect to see growth in China continued growth in China probably in the range of mid-to-high single-digit that we could expect over time.
So that’s basically I think covers everything.
And just one other point I’d highlight Michael is Japan is very pleasing that it grew 3% in sparkling and stills grew 4% in Japan in the quarter.
And again despite the longest monsoon that I have ever experienced in terms of season and how long it took India grew 6% and should do much better going forward.
And so again I’m certainly very proud that this is the 31st consecutive quarter of growth in India for us and including continued share gain.
Okay.
And then Indonesia could you just comment similarly? Yeah.
And again that’s -- Michael that’s a very important market for us and we have been focused on aligning with our bottling partner Amatil there on a new plant or let’s say an evolved plant as was the case in China.
It was the revised OBPPC investments in sparkling and still beverages.
There’s been a recent change in management on the ground.
And all of that again we’re cautiously optimistic about the progress we’re making in Indonesia are beginning to deliver good results.
Certainly that market has so much more opportunity to grow in the coming years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
First Gary congrats on a great run and best wishes on the firm and congrats there Kathy also.
Thank you And Muhtar I was hoping to discuss if your expectations have changed at all here over the last year just regarding the long-term growth potential of the sparkling category.
So not necessarily from a market share front but more just in terms of category growth and if one looks at industry data it looks like sparkling trend slowed more in 2013 than we’ve seen in other CPG categories.
So I was just hoping for some perspective on that the drivers behind it and expectations going forward? Yeah no changes as far as my perspective is concerned.
I can confirm that both our entire team and as well as our bottling partners feel the same way as the system.
We are blessed to be in a great business both in the sparkling area as well as in the stills.
We continue to innovate.
I believe that we have a great future where so many -- hundreds of millions of people in so many large markets haven’t tasted a Coca-Cola in the last month or in the last six months or in the last year.
We have tremendous opportunity going forward and I believe that through innovation packaging equipment and great marketing we will continue to grow our business going forward both in sparkling and in stills.
And I feel confident that we will go back into the corridors of our long-term growth algorithm this year and years to follow.
And with new innovations like creating new paths to consumptions creating new consumption occasions like the Keurig Green Mountain innovation like Freestyle that is driving we know everywhere every time it’s actually installed in an outlet it drives traffic it drives incidents it drives increased sales and it drives excitement for the consumer.
And at the same time our contour packages you will see us being focused much more on the contour.
Next year is the 100th anniversary of the contour bottle the iconic contour bottle.
You’ll see a lot of activity around that also.
But we feel we have a lot of work to do so we feel that isn’t that a great place where you have a lot of work to do and you believe in your future.
Okay.
And on the innovation front in the U.S.
can you give us a bit more detail in terms of maybe potential timing of sweetener innovation and how impactful you think natural sweeteners could be to your topline results eventually? I think they will.
I’m certain innovation is going to be impactful and I can’t give you any more details on the timing.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure.
So just thank you again Gary Kathy Ahmet Sandy Irial Jackson.
We’re just once again firmly committed to advancing our growth trajectory in 2014.
Our strategic priorities are yielding tangible and measurable results and they are consistent with our long-term goals and our overarching business strategy.
Increased marketing investments and a focus a relentless focus on execution underscore the confidence we have in our systems alignment as we seek to execute these strategies while we further strengthen the foundation for profitable and sustainable long-term growth.
Our 2020 Vision calls for a well balanced growth that is growth in sparkling beverages and also growth in still beverages across more than 200 markets countries and in revenues and margins.
And thanks to this balanced growth in both portfolio as well as geographic mix we see a path that leads to global volume revenue and profit growth in line with our long-term target.
Our focus is unwavering and our execution of our five strategic priorities is going to enable us to restore momentum to growth to our business.
Thank you for your time this morning and for your continued interest and trust in our company.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with the investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola’s Media Relations Department if they have any questions.
I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Kelly you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President Global Chief Customer Officer and President Coca-Cola America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments will also be available for our Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statement contained in our earnings release and in the company’s most recent periodic SEC report.
In addition I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning’s discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Jackson and good morning everyone.
Earlier this year we established five global strategic priorities to restore our global growth momentum.
Halfway through the year I am pleased to report that we've delivered another quarter of sequentially improving performance results.
While I am pleased with this year-to-date progress we're conscious of the fact that we still have more work to do.
In spite of continued sluggish global economic growth the beverage industry remains vibrant.
Consumers today have a wide array of beverages to choose from than ever before and our system is responding by evolving the way we operate leveraging our strength to create new competitive advantages.
Our second quarter and year-to-date performance results reflect the steady progress that we are making and that we expect to continue as we further solidify the foundation for long term sustainable growth.
We closed out the second quarter with 3% global volume growth including global sparkling growth of 2% and importantly price mix increased 2% on a consolidated basis as we strive to deliver balanced volume and revenue growth.
We're seeing a number of encouraging signs across our global operating system.
In the second quarter brand Coca-Cola grew 1% in North America along with solid 3% sparkling price mix.
We saw improving volume growth across several key markets in Europe.
Eurasia and Africa continue to deliver balanced volume growth.
Key markets in our Asia Pacific operations delivered strong performance including 9% growth in China double-digit growth in India and 1% growth in Japan and we saw steady execution in the face of a challenging macro environment in Latin America.
As mentioned this progress is built on the implementation and execution of our five global strategic priorities priorities that emerged from a disciplined fact based look at what drives results and long term sustainable growth.
We know for example that great marketing combined with great in-market execution are fundamental building blocks of our formula for long-term sustainable growth.
When we conducted a comprehensive review of our business last year we identified areas where we could improve and put a focused plan in place to address them.
With that in mind I will now provide an update on our progress against each of our five strategic priorities.
Our first strategic priority is to accelerate global sparkling growth led by brand Coca-Cola.
We grew global brand Coca-Cola 1% a sequential improvement from the first quarter of 2014.
As noted earlier our global sparkling brands grew 2% in the second quarter thanks to solid performance across our portfolio of billion dollar sparkling brands including Sprite Fanta Coca-Cola Zero and Schweppes.
This led our 19th consecutive quarter of core sparkling value share gains.
Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Light declined mid-single digits while this was a sequential improvement from the first quarter we do recognize that we have more work to do here.
Progress in growing our global sparkling beverages is built on proven strategies that include delivering best-in-class marketing driving immediate consumption transactions and leading industry innovation.
While I could point to multiple examples of each I would particularly like to highlight our Share a Coke Campaign as it successfully combines all three strategies and it is being rolled out in more than 80 markets this year.
The viral impact of this campaign and the engagement among teens has been more than encouraging.
We're excited about the campaign's expansion not only to new markets but also its return for an encore in many markets.
For example this year in our Northwest Europe and Nordics business units we're extending the program to include all Coca-Cola trademark immediate consumption and future consumption packs and increasing the number of names from 250 to 1 000 per market.
This is a tremendous logistical feat and marketing achievement befitting the world's most loved beverage brand.
The growth of brand Coca-Cola in North America in the second quarter gives us confidence that our focus on driving incidence delivering best-in-class marketing and evolving our price pack architecture is setting the foundation for well balanced growth in our flagship markets.
Through these efforts we are reviving the romance of brand Coca-Cola driving household penetration and increasing consumption frequency all of which contributed to growth in the second quarter.
Our smaller size packs contributed significantly to brand Coca-Cola growth in the second quarter and year-to-date.
Over 60% of the volume growth in brand Coca-Cola in the second quarter was driven by double-digit growth in our mini can and 16 ounce immediate consumption packages reflecting strong consumer demand for smaller packages of ice cold Coca-Cola.
So we remain optimistic about our sparkling business in North America and around the world and we're committed to supporting our brands committed to driving execution and staying at the forefront of evolving consumer needs.
Our second global priority is to strategically expand our profitable still beverage portfolio.
We've delivered 5% still beverage volume growth in the second quarter and 6% growth year-to-date.
Sports drinks tea energy coffee and water all contributed to global growth and enabled us to gain volume and value share in still beverages year-to-date.
Juice and juice drinks growth slowed year-to-date due to price adjustments primarily to offset cost of goods increases in North America.
However we gained volume and value share in North America and also on a global basis.
Overall the global juice growth story remains very robust.
We are strengthening our leading brands as demonstrated by the double-digit growth of Maaza and Rani year-to-date along with high single-digit growth for Simply and mid-single digit growth for Del Valle.
Our tea volume increased 4% in the quarter growing volume and value share in the second quarter and year-to-date.
Importantly our key brands within the U.S.
and Japan our two largest tea markets performed very well.
Tea volume grew 6% in North America driven by double-digit Gold Peak and Honest Tea growth while in Japan tea volume grew 5% less by 8% growth of Ayataka the 21st consecutive quarter of strong growth for this dynamic brand.
As a system we are enhancing our premium water brands to drive revenue while investing in our value chains to improve profitability.
Examples of premium water brands growing double-digits in both the quarter and year-to-date include Smartwater in North America I Lohas in Japan and Vio in Germany.
As we focus on building great brands we are pleased to share that Smartwater will soon be available in Great Britain and that addition of Dasani Sparkling and Dasani Drops is enhancing our brand margins in North America.
Our water portfolio grew 7% in the second quarter and 10% year-to-date.
In the sports drinks category we grew volume 6% in the quarter filled by our FIFA World Cup POWERADE activation.
As the global value leader is still beverages and with $11 billion brands and many more in the pipeline we are diligently working to enhance the value of our still portfolio.
And as exemplified by our recent partnership with Keurig Green Mountain we will continue to strategically target opportunities to strengthen our position and build our breadth across new categories while building category beverage debt.
Moving now on to our third strategic priority which is to increase brand investments by maximizing productivity our productivity initiatives are on track as is our commitment to increase media investments in tea markets.
We are delivering more and better quality marketing by focusing on increased efficiency and effectiveness.
Our global marketing campaign charters are fueling in productivity and efficiency while at the same time driving media effectiveness through higher quality communication.
The example of the power of this approach is the full scale activation of our FIFA world cup campaign where single creative idea this is the world's cup was executed across more than 170 markets in the second quarter.
The success of our Coca-Cola music anthem for the 2014 FIFA World Cup reinforces the engaging nature of this campaign as the anthem reached over two billion impressions charting in the top 10 songs in 40 countries and was ranked as the number one song in Brazil at the start of the World Cup.
The full impact of our enhanced marketing and productivity initiatives will clearly build over time.
Our fourth priority is to win at that point of sales by unlocking the power of our system.
Our global system is committed to investing in new plans investing in new distribution capabilities investing in coolers and marketing.
Enhancing our immediate consumption capabilities while optimizing in store activations and advancing our customers business strategies and finally putting more feed on the street to service these accounts.
To that end you may have read last week that together with our bottling partners we will be investing an additional 8.2 billion by 2020 to support our long-term business plan and vision in Mexico.
Since 2010 our total system investments globally have exceeded $60 billion.
Our fifth priority is to invest in our next generation of leaders.
We’re doing this by inspiring our people to live our values of focusing on the market working smart acting like owners and being passionate ambassadors for our company and for our brands.
We are harnessing the potential of our millennial associates their optimism their global mindedness entrepreneurialism and social awareness drive them to build sustainable practices into every aspect of what they do including right here at the Coca-Cola company.
We therefore established an internal group of millennial voices and we're working with the world economic forums global shapers to provide our leaders with insights on how to continue to evolve to meet the needs of this and also future generations.
We continue to focus on strengthening the core front facing capabilities of franchise leadership commercial leadership and marketing leadership while also embracing emerging capabilities in the digital mobile and social media arena.
We’re working with our global bottling partners to encourage more cross system experience having company associates drawing bottlers and bottling associates join the company to instill a one-team mentality across our global system ranks.
Another terrific example of how we’re leaving our fifth priority is Woodruff Cup our most prestigious internal award named after our legendary Chairman Robert Woodruff who's tenure with the company stand from 1923 to 1985.
Each year our business units President select one of their peers as winner of this award and people leadership is the key criteria.
Our most recent winner at the South Latin business unit exemplifies what it means to inspire our next generation of leaders as demonstrated by the fact that women make up more than half of their workforce and that they've consistently been ranked among the top three best places to work in that whole geography.
Our focus on our five strategic priorities enables us to execute the fundamentals while simultaneously transforming an advancing our business.
An important example of this is our North American re-franchising effort to build the 21st century beverage partnership model.
Our ongoing work is underpinned by our full commitment to create a modern agile consumer and customer focused operating model and system which balances national scale and local capability.
As we continue to roll out and evolve business model in North America we expect to franchise the large portion of North America territories into a handful of regional bottlers proven regional bottlers that can best serve every local community within their contiguous operating territories.
These larger bottling partners will be complemented by a select group of local bottling partners enabling us to benefit from the passion and local touch of a franchise model and to grow our business faster and more profitably over time.
We’re making progress and we’re implementing this work by executing smaller scale transitions today so that we can seamlessly transfer larger portions of territory in the future.
It is important for us to follow this deliberate process as we establish a structure to maximize long term value for our share owners while ensuring that there’s no business disruption to our customers and consumers.
We will provide you with additional details regarding this transformational initiative before the end of the year.
In summary and as mentioned at the beginning of the year we’re committed to executing strategies that will deliver stronger growth.
Notwithstanding the volatile environment in which we're operating we’re making steady and sequential progress as we invest in our brands together with our bottling partners and we expect to fall within the corridors of our long term growth algorithm in the second half of the year.
Indeed our second quarter and year-to-date performance results reflect the steady progress that we're making to restore our global growth momentum and I look forward to providing you with further updates later in the year.
Now I’m happy to hand the call over to our new Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller who will provide with an update on our financial performance as well as an outlook on our business for the balance of the year.
Following Kathy's prepared remarks Irial Finan Sandy Douglas Ahmet Bozer and I will participate in our Q&amp;A session to address any market specific questions that you may have today.
Kathy? Thank you Muhtar and good morning everyone.
I would like to start by saying that it’s an honor to serve as the CFO of The Coca-Cola Company.
In my more than 25 years with the company I’ve seen our business evolve and grow over time while remaining strategically focused on doing the right things to drive long term sustainable growth that's why I am confident about our business and I’m looking forward to working with each of you.
As Muhtar mentioned we continue to execute the five strategic priorities we laid-out at the beginning of the year.
We achieved 3% volume growth in the quarter and delivered sound financial results over the first half of 2014.
Let’s start by reviewing a few key drivers of our financial performance.
Unit case growth was ahead of concentrate sales growth in the quarter primarily due to timing of shipments.
Importantly after considering the impact of one less selling day unit cases and concentrate sales were in line year-to-date and we expect them to be in line for the full year.
Comparable currency neutral -- net revenue growth was 3% for both the quarter and year-to-date after excluding the impact of structural items.
Our topline growth includes two points of positive price mix in both the quarter and year-to-date.
Comparable currency neutral operating income was up 5% in the quarter and 6% year-to-date after excluding the impact of structural items.
Operating leverage was even in the quarter as we continue to make the necessary investments behind our brands to accelerate growth including a mid-single digit increase in [DME] [ph] as we invest in the growth of our brands together with our global system partners.
On a comparable basis currency unfavorably impacted this quarter's operating income by 4% which was three points better than the outlook we provided during our last earnings call.
The difference between the outlook we provided and the actual currency impact was primarily due to a new provision in Venezuela that imposed a maximum threshold for profit margins and decreased our Bolivar denominated revenue and profit.
The new provision resulted in an approximate one penny drag on comparable EPS in the second quarter which was partially offset by the impact of slight improvements in other currencies compared to our previous expectation.
Despite a difficult operating environment in Venezuela the Coca-Cola system remains committed to the market and will continue producing and selling our products that Venezuelan consumers enjoy on a daily basis.
We also benefitted in the quarter from lowering our underlying effective tax rate from 23% to 22.5% for the full year.
Cash generated from operating activities was a strong $4.5 billion in the first half of the year and we continue to make capital deployment decisions based on a consistent and disciplined framework as we had outlined before.
First we reinvest in the business which includes making the necessary investments to strengthen our brand and it includes capital investments which we expect to be roughly $2.5 billion for the year.
Second we reward our shareowners by paying a healthy dividend which we have increased annually for more than half essentially.
Next we evaluate opportunities to grow through acquisitions partnerships and joint ventures.
We view these as enablers to help accelerate growth and create value and in a capital efficient manner.
And lastly we repurchase shares.
Year-to-date our net share repurchases totaled $1.3 billion and we are on a track for net share repurchases in the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for the full year.
As we look ahead for the second half of 2014 let me take a minute to update you on a few outlook items as we model our business.
We previously communicated that we expect the structural items to unfavorably impact the first half of the year as we cycle the deconsolidation of certain bottling operations in 2013.
However we now expect structural items including Venezuela to be a one to two point drag on net revenue growth and an approximate three point drag on operating income growth during the second half of 2014.
The refranchise territories in North America had a nominal impact on our comparable results in the second quarter and are not expected to have a meaningful impact over the balance of the year.
After considering our hedge position current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we expect a three point currency headwind and operating income during the second half of 2014 with a relatively similar impact on both third and fourth quarters and we now expect a currency headwind in the five to six point range at operating income for the full year.
This is an improvement compared to the previous outlook we provided primarily due to the decrease in Boulevard denominated revenue and profit.
After taking into consideration all these factors we expect the impact of structural items net of the benefit from the change in our underlying effective tax rate to be a $0.02 drag on comparable EPS during the second half of the year.
Finally we continue to expect operating leverage on a currency neutral basis to be even to slightly positive for the full year.
In closing we delivered sound financial performance in the first half of 2014 and we expect to continue our sound financial performance over the remainder of the year and I believe our company and our global system are well positioned to capitalize on the opportunities within our great industry.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Muhtar if I look at your second quarter performance volume growth of 3% sequential improvement versus Q1 global price mix held steady at 2% I guess second quarter also though benefitted in part because of easy comp and you have the Easter benefit.
So can you maybe talk about your ability to sustain the topline momentum as you look out in the back half of the year and be mindful of some of the macro economic conditions that you see in the marketplace? Thanks Judy.
Well again just to quickly go through the quarter as you said volume was up 3% sparkling volume really importantly was up 2% and brand Coca-Cola up globally and in North America.
Those are really three important points.
Also another quarter of value market share gains.
I think more than 25 consecutive -- 28 to be exact in the second quarter of gaining value share.
You see us having a very -- with our system very clear focus on priorities.
We had our entire global bottling system get together with us a couple -- few months ago and again there a recommitment to the focus on our priorities.
Sequential improvement in a lot of large markets particularly Europe France Germany Great Britain Italy Spain and again good results very strong results out of Eurasia and Africa improving in Nigeria South Africa Turkey; improvements again if you take Asia Pacific again very strong quarter in China as well as in India.
Double-digit growth in India Thailand saw again -- so if you take all of those margins that are improving gross margins has improved in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Clear path on North America franchising strong belief that what we are doing is working in our system is really important.
Good bottler alignment yes there are a couple few exceptions but there always have been and will be and more work to be done.
So on the purchase we operate in a very volatile global environment both politically and economically.
China slowing down is impacting many commodity exporting countries and from Africa to Latin America but overall what we're doing is working more marketing through productivity gains better marketing.
We mentioned Share a Coke program in over 80 markets.
Tremendous leverage on our World Cup program in more than 170 markets with probably the biggest activation that we've ever had and all these -- all this will not generally have an impact on the quarter that you spend in.
It comes in after with better incidence better brand loyalty better purchase intent that we're all seeing and what is happening in North America in terms of spot -- in price mix also you can see that we have a very disciplined approach both in the United States and globally where we've been able to achieve a 2% price mix on a global basis and yes there was an Easter shift but at the same time our gallon shipments were below our unit case volume for the quarter.
So that -- if you say that that would sort of neutralize the benefit that we may have got from Easter I think overall we feel pretty confident with again the caveat that we need to do a lot more work -- continue to do a lot more work more focus better execution but the five priorities are working and early shoots green shoots and we expect that the balance of the year as I mentioned in my script that we should be able to fall within the corridor of the long term growth targets and again there may be issues along the way bumps along the way but the most important thing is that we're resolutely focused on continuing to build momentum here.
Okay.
That's helpful.
If I can just quickly follow-up on North American pricing particularly in the sparkling side where you got the 3% in the quarter maybe a little bit more details around the drivers of that weather it was how much was mix versus rate and sort of your views on whether you can sustain that kind of pricing and maybe even fee acceleration if you look at the next… Sure I'll say a few things and pass it over to Sandy but all I would say is take note of the fact that a very big portion percentage 60% to be exact of the growth came from smaller packages that's obviously an enhancement of the mix driving revenue but also rate.
So I'll ask Sandy and then may be Irial if he has any commentary on North America but we are operating with tremendous diligence and discipline in the marketplace and success for us is a combination of both the growth that we have on the volume but importantly also growth in transaction which is a really good litmus test of the success of the business that is coming more into play each day as we progress.
Sandy? Thanks Muhtar.
Hi Judy.
We said at the beginning of the year that our focus in North America was going to be a disciplined combination of volume and price and that we would see that as a strategic priority and the second quarter really reflects that 3% price mix on sparkling while achieving volume growth on Coke and Muhtar mentioned the importance of smaller packages in driving that outcome.
It's also important in driving growth because consumers want smaller packages and we've been working on developing that as a part of our overall strategy so lots of discipline.
As we ahead we're lapping some very promotional activity in the third quarter of last year and our discipline will remain and the bottlers and the company around the country are focused on marketing and selling our way through and maintaining an extraordinary amount of discipline on pricing and we're optimistic that we'll be able to hold that strategy.
Hi it's Irial.
I guess all I can add is really repeat what Sandy said and I've said in the last three calls now which is we really are focused on building a long term sustainable business and that's mixing pricing and volume and transactions in a very balanced way and coming up with a great result for our company and we will do that and we will continue to do it.
Yes one thing -- the only thing I would add here also Judy is that I think there is -- we see a path forward to being able to build more romance with the brand through smaller packages and that's really an important element in what is also being discussed.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just wanted to get a clarification if I could.
When you talk about the $0.02 impact you mentioned it was comparable EPS but it sounds like that's sort of reported EPS as well is that correct? Yes Kathy.
Sure.
Hi John.
Thanks for the question.
So Venezuela impact yes.
That is a $0.02 drag on comparable EPS as well as reported EPS.
So as you look at Venezuela you take it in two pieces.
The currency impact as well as the impact of the provision.
The provision is less Boulevard denominated revenue.
It can't move because of capped margins and it has gone straight to the bottom line and then the FX is -- the impact is because as well we don't have as much Boulevard denominated revenue and income.
So you could split those two pieces and yes it is comparable as well as as reported.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then Kathy if I could just sort of follow-up we're continuing to see sort of weaker volumes in some of the higher margin regions like Latin America or Europe what have you so can you talk a little bit in terms of how you are going to look at -- how should we think about margins going forward if these types of -- if this type of relative weakness in some of these higher margin markets continues to particularly Latin America which is your highest margin region and it's been a little bit softer over the last couple of quarters thanks.
So I would split them -- the question is two and actually Ahmet help me answer with it but the margins in Latin America are impacted this quarter by the Venezuela provision and then when you look at ongoing volume growth and contribution to the company I'll let Ahmet… John hey just couple of points.
Rest of Latin America the margin and the growth and profitability overall is in a good direction.
No important issues there.
Also keep in mind that we've been able to realize positive price mix and high margin in places like Europe.
We've been able to grow in Japan.
So we are able to balance across the international territory to have positive price mix and margins.
Okay.
Great.
Just to add I think yes you are right in saying that Latin America has slowed down to where it traditionally has been and we've seen this kind of cyclical slowdowns in Latin America and as some parts will get better I think starting with towards the end of the year.
We also see some other volatility -- continued volatility in like Argentina and other markets but overall I think we from also what we're cycling as well we expect Latin America -- major markets in Latin America to have some sequential improvement in the second half of this year.
And then overall longer term we feel very confident about also what is lying ahead in Latin America.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
Kathy I wanted to follow-up on John's question just relative to leverage and I guess there are two parts to it one just I think I caught in the prepared comments that you mentioned that on a comparable currency neutral basis you would expect -- you would expect some leverage in the second half.
So I am just trying to make sure I heard that correctly and that we should be thinking about ex-Venezuela impact and ex the structural change in currencies that would be currency neutral operating profit growth.
And then second question is if I am done the calculations correctly it looks like on a comparable basis currency neutral gross margins in the quarter were up.
So if you could just talk a little bit A is that true and; B if you could talk a little bit about how you would expect gross margins to evolve going forward.
Kind of what type of inflation you are seeing and just sort of how -- what factors you might see driving gross margins in the second half? Okay.
Hi Bryan.
Thanks for your question.
So our outlook for leverage on a currency neutral basis remains flat to slightly positive and we've said -- when you think about gross margins so gross margins have improved for the second quarter and year-to-date and I think when we look at -- I guess when we look at our margins for the back half of the year we have we delivered sound financial results and we anticipate that we will continue to deliver sound financial results for the quarter -- for the back half of the year.
So we do anticipate that margins will continue to be -- will continue in the same way that they’ve been in the first half of the year.
So there's nothing unusual about the gross margins in the first half we could potentially see more progress on gross margins and we're just spending more back which is what's getting the leverage to slightly flat is that what you think about it? Yes we can say we invest behind our brands and we -- so yes that is part of the leverage story but that's causing like in North America some negative -- slight negative leverage and North America because we are spending behind our brand.
So we are getting pricing and we are committed to rational pricing.
So we're getting pricing which is helping us with the margins -- the gross margins but we are continuing to invest behind our brands.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Just to add to that Bryan if you look at the second quarter compared to the first quarter marketing is substantially higher in the second quarter than it is in the first quarter and particularly towards the back end of the second quarter substantially higher.
So that explains and some of the things again what Kathy was saying but also our productivity is on target for -- it has been on target for the first half of the year and will be on target for the second half.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Steib from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Can I ask a couple of questions -- could of specific questions on Latin America first on Brazil given all the investments you made in the market and the World Cup I was just wondering why volume performance wasn’t stronger in the quarter.
You mentioned in the release a tough macro environment and some competitive activity but I was hoping you could give us bit more detail.
And then second with regards to Mexico I know you’ve taken all the pricing related to the tax increase early in the year but have you also passed on pricing now for general inflation in the country.
Thanks.
Michael its Muhtar here and I'll Ahmet to provide additional commentary but think of Brazil as having a very tough macro environment in the first half so if you look at the entire consumer disposable and non-disposable consumer durable consumer goods sectors we're under tremendous duress in the first half of the year particularly leading up to the -- particularly it's more so even in the second quarter.
So think of it this way.
Had it not been the result would have been perhaps not what it was -- it would have been had we knocked on all that activity.
So from that perspective I think we see brand as getting stronger incidence and purchase intent getting stronger in Brazil as a result of all the activity and I think that should benefit us going forward in Brazil.
So certainly the macro environment in Brazil as you can read as we can all see has been very challenging and so given that backdrop I think our results were content with where we are and we believe that what we've done will benefit us in the second half and going forward.
In terms of Mexico I think both times prices were adjusted.
They include a certain portion for also inflation so take it as that but again I'll ask Ahmet to provide any further commentary for both Brazil and Mexico.
Thanks Muhtar.
On Brazil the only thing I would add Michael is that we have a pricing packaging architecture which allows us to have different tax both for immediate and future consumption at different price points and we are executing those with great discipline and that in fact is helping us navigate this challenging external environment and we expect that to continue bear fruit in the third and fourth quarter along with the strong marketing programs we have.
With respect to Mexico the only other thing I would add is that we do have a not just passing the tax and the inflation but a consumer-driven pricing approach which has been very carefully calculated and the elasticity that we have calculated in reality are happening better than that we've expected.
So in another words our Mexican business is showing more resilience in this area.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Kathy.
I guess Muhtar as you think about the sparkling global outlook and your efforts to build on where you are here in the second quarter is it fair to think your emphasis will continue to be on volume share gains more so than dollar share gains or do you think there is potential for more dollar share growth in spite of the volumes being a little below what you are hoping for? I think success for us is certainly continuing our value share gains.
You can -- obviously you can't -- only value share gains without volume is not sustainable over the long term but we have a very disciplined approach just like in North America also for our international business related to more smaller packs.
So benefitting the mix will benefit us but also very importantly it's critical for us to achieve price mix on a global scale.
Different geographies will again play differently into the picture such disparate pricing per case depending on which geography we're talking about.
So geographic mix is an important piece of this as is package mix and as is rate.
And could you -- obviously a lot of markets to talk about on this call and though for going into many of them but when you look at North America specifically and you see that the 3% price mix on the carbonated and a bit of growth there on the stills but you also have the flat volumes and then data we look at is CPI for the larger carbonated space which continues to be down.
So retailers continue to promote the carbonated component of your business.
How are you thinking about the opportunity for better value share performance in North America given the volume share situation you're facing? I'll just say that once again smaller size packs contributed significantly to say brand Coca-Cola volume and revenue growth in Q2 and year-to-date as a matter of fact.
So if you take over 60% of the growth in brand Coca-Cola in Q2 was driven by double-digit in our mini can and 16 ounce immediate consumption packages I think that is -- that is how I would like to leave you with.
That is what I would like to leave you with as an opportunity.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hi guys.
So if you would have predicted back in December that price mix in North America was going to be up as much and your volumes would have remained flat and Latin America you indicated volume would have been flat even with all the Mexico tax issues I think I would have said you are being optimistic but that is what you are delivering which is good but it does raise two questions for me.
One is it has concentrated your volume growth in only two of your six reporting segments so want to get a better sense of how comfortable you are with those two currently and your expansion of volume growth in the other segments like what gives you confidence that the other ones can grow as well? And then secondly a question about the mix between volume and price mix which if you look over the past 10 years it's been mainly driven by volume obviously pricing now much more balanced now I am trying to understand how much of that is actually a change in strategic intent that you described versus just FX driving you to raise more pricing.
So if you can help with those two that would be great in a smarter volume context.
Ali I'll take the last first.
The strategy is driven by what consumers want and that is not just phenomenal for the United States but smaller packages are a key focus.
So that helps the mix.
That helps the revenue.
That helps also the price mix.
Then again couple that with a very disciplined approach towards also having the right balance between value and volume share gains.
And so it's really important.
In terms of concentration of volume growth I think the important thing is for you to focus on the improvements from quarter to quarter.
If we take key geographies like Europe France had an improvement Germany had an improvement Great Britain had a significant improvement Italy had a significant improvement Spain had a significant improvement Europe overall had a huge improvement when you look at total and just again this is pure simply from volume and then if you look at our pricing and other thing you will get also a similar picture.
So I think focus on the sequential improvements focus on us delivering on our focused priorities and so what I see there is that we will strive and diligently strive to continue with sequential improvement building momentum as we go forward and I also mentioned as an answer to a previous question that I thought Latin America we would see some also some sequential improvement.
Okay.
Thanks and one of the things you’ve announced a bunch on this conference call is about margin and margin mix and one of the things obviously that can offset margin pressures is incremental cost cutting can you talk a little bit more about how you view incremental cost cutting versus what you’ve announced so far what you think the potential is and when you think we might hear more about more cost cutting at the company? Well we announced significant cost cuts over the last four five years different programs and as I mentioned earlier again we're on target with our productivity and that productivity is being reinvested to drive growth.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Powers from UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
Maybe building on that and focusing back on North America as you talked about you had good price mix realization at sparkling of 3% and you did see margin grow in the quarter which is great.
But overall we only saw 1% price mix and year-to-date margins remain slightly below last year's level in the U.S.
based on my math.
So as I think about the path towards refranchise and smoothing that path it seems to me greater profitability is a great enabler of that is there -- what needs to be done? Is there a way to get even more aggressive on price mix realization or to Ali's point pushing on productivity more to get the North American profit pool to expand to facilitate entry of new partners thanks.
I'll talk about a couple of levers and then ask Irial to join me but the growth in profitability in North America the major opportunities exist in pricing and the overall effectiveness and efficiency in the system.
We talked about price as a lever and a area of discipline and focus and price is achieved through rate as you know and also mix and a whole lot of innovation is going on inside of packaging to give consumers what they want and to earn a return as a result of that.
Couple that with our overall system architecture work which Muhtar described earlier which is on track as we overhaul IT product supply as we overhaul customer management and shared services and the refranchising progress which is on track with our bottlers we'll create a system that is on one hand more effective and grows faster and on another level is more efficient generating better margins.
But at the end of the day that combination needs to be built on accelerating growth and a focus of the near term has been to reinvest the proceeds into marketing to rebuild brand momentum and brand momentum at price point and we're optimistic about the progress but we have a whole lot more work to do.
The only add I would give is delivering to the packing houses is we remain absolutely committed to deliver one of our core priorities which is excellence and execution in the marketplace and as every day goes by I get more comfortable that we're starting to do things better every day every time we go an outlet and fundamentally that's the other piece that actually gives us the capability to get extra price or mix in the marketplace and we will continue to do that and it's a journey.
It's not turning the light switch on is happens day by day week by week month by month and I feel pretty good that over the next number of years our capability in the marketplace admires the great marketing is going to deliver the kind of price mix we all desire and that's why the discipline in remaining focused on price mix married with transaction growth and married with volume is why we feel confident about our North America business over the long term.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Schmidt from Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you just comment about some of the market share losses in Mexico Brazil and then on most about the U.K.
so what do you think is driving that and then when do you think some of those trends are going to reverse because some of these losses are fairly substantial I think it was like a little over a point of value share and scan channel loss in Brazil about a point in Mexico and then similar trends in the U.K.
Bill I think in the U.K.
most of that loss was in Q1.
If you look at Q2 we've had sequential improvement in the U.K.
and we expect that going forward in both Mexico and in Brazil that more minor losses to brands and local players will reverse themselves in the course of the year and we always see that happening in both markets.
So I think that was the difficult operating environment in Brazil in terms of also us having discipline in our pricing and the same goes for also Mexico.
Got you.
So you think that your losses are really a function of may be the more aggressive pricing you took and maybe as that stabilizes this year.
And very transitory.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate that.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
A quick question I had is just if you think about the quarter and how trends moved through the quarter I am just curious if you actually saw correlation with the higher level of spending as the quarter progressed and your volume growth just again just trying to understand if the spending is actually working and when you think about the ROI on that spend what discrete things and specific things is Coke doing to make sure that there is a glad path of getting better return out of that spend.
Thanks.
Yes I think two things spending increased as we moved through the quarter.
So there was much more spending in let's say the end of the quarter than there was in the beginning of the quarter and therefore you would expect that not all that benefit is going to flow obviously into the quarter and this is again about generating long term sustainable momentum which we believe is happening.
Again I want to remind everyone that I am pleased with these results in a difficult operating environment and to get growth back into sparkling is a significant achievement to get growth back into Coca-Cola and the world globally and in the United States is a significant achievement and we will continue to focus on where we need to be quarter after quarter one quarter at a time.
I just want to say that I believe our approach is working.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kevin Grundy from Jefferies.
Good morning and thanks for the question.
So first Muhtar you talked about increasing or broadening your product portfolio so may be without tipping your hand too much what would be the top of your wish list by product and geography and do you still feel comfortable with your energy drink strategy? And then separately Kathy now that you kind of bring a fresh look here do you plan on doing anything differently from a capital structure perspective and I guess say that within the context if there is an argument to make that Coke is under-levered income and can potentially add leverage by adding leverage could add value to shareholders and we've seen a number of companies in the CPG space that have been rewarded by the market for such actions.
So any thoughts there would be appreciated.
Thank you.
Yes Kevin obviously I can't walk you through our wish list.
That would be too much information to the whole market and everyone that plays in the market but I would say our portfolio is really very rich as you saw from -- as we know from our $17 billion brands and so many more in the pipeline and again our sparkling brands that really performed well on a global basis Sprit and Fanta and Schweppes in addition to Coca-Cola.
So all of that tells me that what we're doing in different brands and creating more incidents more transactions is working and you heard the numbers that I mentioned in tea both in the U.S.
and globally in premium waters in juice and juice drinks in sports drinks all of that we're pleased with a much richer portfolio than we had say three years ago and that portfolio is again yielding very good results particularly also simply in the juice category simply [Innocent] (ph) all those different brands that are across the world yielding very good results and again both also in China too and Southeast Asia with new innovations that are really working well for us in both the fusion of dairy and juice as well as pulpy drinks and also juice and juice drinks.
And Kathy yes.
On the second part of your question I believe the company has always been very focused on driving long term sustainable growth and we've done that in a very consistent and disciplined way and we've clearly focused on reinvesting in the business and to accelerate growth and create value.
So I believe we -- obviously we focus on making sure we have share repurchase and we do give a healthy dividend back but we will continue basically what we've been doing focusing on driving long-term growth.
So no real change on that front? Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Kathy Ahmet Sandy Irial and Jackson.
Our performance year-to-date progressed against each of our strategic priorities and the positive signs that we're seeing in many global markets all illustrate our view that the 20-20 vision and strategic plans are solid proof points are out there 3% growth in the quarter global price mix of 2% increased global media spending reflecting our confidence and building on the strength of our brand and also in our ability to engage our consumers and customers effectively and global year-to-date value share growth in our categories and so we're winning in the vibrant beverage industry and also coupled with sound financial performance during the first half of the year.
So we're making steady progress and we're where we are expected to be at this stage in the year.
I look forward to providing you with all of you with additional updates as we continue to restore our global momentum in the months ahead.
Thank you for your time this morning and your continued interest and trust in the Coca-Cola company.
Thank you.
And this concludes today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call we request a limit of one question per person.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola’s Media Relations Department if they have any questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find supplemental materials on our website that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company’s most recent periodic SEC report.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning’s discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President Global Chief Customer Officer and President of Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments will also be available for our Q&amp;A discussion Now I’ll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Today I am going to start with an overview of our quarterly performance and then spend the rest of the time addressing the strategic initiatives we announced earlier this morning in our set of release.
So let’s look at our performance for the third quarter.
Our overall topline results for the third quarter were below our expectations.
Comparable currency neutral net revenues grew 1% in the quarter and after adjusting for structural items due to factors both within and outside of our control.
We continue to face a challenging macro environment; more challenging than was expected when we started the year.
In many of our key emerging markets we see deteriorating economic environments coupled with continued softness in consumer spending in the U.S.
and particularly in Japan and Europe.
This is placing strong pressure on the short term performance of our business.
These factors have driven a deceleration in personal consumption expenditures and as a result the non-alcoholic beverage industry is growing one to two points slower than our initial forecast at the beginning of the year.
With that said there is no question that we need to improve our execution in many markets especially our consumer marketing and commercial strategies.
Although we could point to various markets this was most prominent in Europe where we saw continued challenging macroeconomic environment and also aggressive competitive pricing.
We achieved a 3% price mix in Europe which was partially offset by a volume decline of 5%.
While we are not comfortable with our year-to-date share performance in Europe we along with our bottling partners know we must light better consumer and commercial strategies and execution that can benefit from incremental investment in the market place and we’re taking actions to address this situation.
That said we are not discouraged nor are we any less enthusiastic about the opportunities in front of us.
In markets where we executed our strategies well we saw solid progress in North America our disciplined approach to pricing supported by incremental media investments high quality marketing programs such as Share a Coke and disciplined price pack strategies as well as improved execution is paying dividends with increased incidence particularly among teams and revenue growth in our Sparkling portfolio.
In key emerging markets including India Sub-Sahara Africa as well as the Middle East are incremental media investments drove recruitment with solid net revenue and volume growth.
This gives us confidence that when we invest in our brands align on our system plan and focus on execution we do see positive results.
But to be clear we recognize that our incremental media investments which already started in earnest around the FIFA World Cup will take time to pay off.
Stepping back from our quarterly performance we’ve taken a hard look at our progress to date.
Our strategies and our actions and realize that while the five strategic priorities we laid out at the beginning of the year are on the right track we recognize that we must do more.
Above all the scope and pace of our actions must change to improve our ability to capture non-alcoholic beverage industry growth.
And that change starts with me.
I’ve asked my leadership team to take this journey with me and to facilitate this change throughout our company.
It’s a journey we are ready to embark upon.
In some ways we’ve already enhanced our business with strategic investments in Keurig Green Mountain and intend to further do so with our pending investment in master beverages which underscore not only our ability to adapt the changing consumer trends but also our commitment to further innovation.
But these partnerships alone are not enough that is why we are laying out today a series of actions we firmly believe will drive the necessary changes to continue to deliver long term shareholder value.
First we are streamlining and simplifying our operating model in order to speed decision making and enhance our local markets focus to drive growth.
This work is moving forward aggressively and we expect to focus the role for our corporate center and further scale our back office to support processes and policies globally.
This will also enable our local operations to focus intently on demand creation in their individual markets.
And as previously announced we are revising our long term incentive metrics to provide a clear line of sight between our employees around the globe and the metrics they can best influence.
Second we will drive efficiency through aggressively expanding our productivity program.
We plan to expand the program from 1 billion in savings by 2016 to 2 billion in annualized savings by 2017 and 3 billion by 2019.
This productivity program will build on previous successful programs encompassing our entire spend base and will supplant our existing plan announced earlier this year.
A number of actions are already taking place.
We are restructuring our global supply chain including optimizing our manufacturing footprint in North America and investing in technology to streamline – to further streamline our operations.
We are implementing zero based budgeting across our organization and are dreadfully prioritizing and redesigning our normal activities to further reduce costs.
As I have previously mentioned we are streamlining and simplifying our operating model which will enhance our speed and agility and result in lower operating expenses overtime.
Finally we are working to drive even more disciplined and efficiency in our direct marketing investments.
As a result of these initiatives we plan to fund the marketing programs and innovation required to reinvigorate and deliver sustainable net revenue growth.
At the same time we expect these actions will drive margin expansion and increase return on investment capital overtime.
Our third action is to refocus on our core business model of building the world’s greatest beverage brands and leading an unmatched global system of strong local bottling partners.
In North America we have a clear and definitive plan to refranchise the majority of our company owned bottling territories by the end of 2017 so at that time we will retain approximately one third of the total bottling distributed volume in North America.
With respect to the remaining territories our intent is to ensure the bulk of these are refranchised at the latest by 2020.
Finally outside of North America we will continue to pursue opportunities to refranchise other company owned bottlers where it makes sense where the business is ready and where we have able and willing partners.
Fourth we will drive disciplined brand and growth investments with a long term view across both Sparkling and Still categories.
We will take a balanced approach to ensure we can build our business while consistently delivering bottom line results.
In Sparkling as outlined earlier this year we will continue to work to improve the quality of our marketing and scale our global investments through a network marketing model to improve topline growth across trademark Coca Cola Fanta and Sprite.
During the second quarter of this year we began to step up our media investments.
Our investments target markets and categories where our current media is underfunded relative to the market opportunity we see as well as where we have the right price package architecture and finally off course execution alignment with our partners.
In Still beverages we will continue to invest in our core growth priorities where we are a leader and notably juice and juice drinks and enhance the hydration.
We will expand our investments in selected profitable categories where we believe we can capture value such as value-added dairy.
And we will continue to leverage our partnership model with companies such as Keurig Green Mountain Monster and FairLife as well as targeted M&amp;A to enhance our growth in key categories.
We expect these efforts to build on our global leadership in Still beverages and accelerate growth overtime.
This we will drive revenue and profit growth across our markets with a further focus on geographic segmentation recognizing that each market has an important role to play within our portfolio.
We’ve targeted our markets with clear role is to drive topline growth with some markets focused on price others on volume and the remainder on the balance of the two.
Beginning 2015 our incentive metrics will be expanded to include revenue growth and will be tied to these clear portfolio roles.
We are confident that the action we are announcing today will ensure that the Coca Cola Company is best positioned to capture growth in non-alcoholic beverages and continues to deliver long term value to our shareholders.
Since its inception our 2020 vision has served to focus our system on the opportunity and to align on our common set of strategies.
We have begun the process of evolving our 2020 vision with our bottlers earlier this year a process that will continue over the coming months.
Together we remain confident in the growth potential for non-alcoholic beverages.
While growth rates will be challenging in the short term given the macroeconomic volatility we believe that overtime consumer trends will support mid-single digit revenue growth.
Importantly the core Sparkling category remains resilient and has growth retail value globally for the first nine months of the year 3% outpacing the non-alcoholic ready to drink industries total value growth of 2%.
And we also see effective profitable growth opportunities in still beverages ones that we are well positioned to take advantage of but ones that requires faster action and greater and focused investments.
While we have more work to do here it is clear that our 2020 vision will remain focused on delivering value growth for our – ahead of the industry.
Importantly the goal of doubling system revenues one our system can always aspire towards it but it is not a goal to be pursued at any cost over a fixed time frame and we are realigning our expectations based on where we are today and the outlook for our industry.
Let me be clear we see no change to our long term target of high single digit comparable currency neutral EPS growth.
We are updating our net revenue target to mid-single digit growth in order to perfect current reality including the increased contribution from our new partnership model which will impact equity income rather than slowing through net revenues and operating income.
And we are evolving our primary profit metric from operating income through profit before tax.
Going forward the profit before tax this will be 6% to 8% on the comparable currency neutral basis consistent with the previous operating income target of 6% to 8%.
With that said we must also be realistic.
While we are very confident in our actions we are cautious in our outlook.
The actions announced to date and the additional work we had to do will take time to implement and deliver improvement in our results.
As such we expect to be below our long term EPS growth target for 2014 on a full year basis.
We will come back to you with more contexts in December; however we see 2015 as a critical year a year in transition as we flawlessly implement our new operating model amidst the continued challenging macroeconomic environment.
I am confident however that we have the brands the greatest and most wide reaching consumer product distribution system in the world the critical partnerships and most importantly the people to return us to a more robust growth trajectory.
I’ll now hand the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller who will provide you with a more detailed look at our financial performance as well as an outlook on our business for the balance of the year.
Following Kathy's prepared remarks Irial Finan Sandy Douglas Ahmet Bozer Kathy and I will participate in our question and answer session to address any questions that you may have today.
Kathy? Thank you Muhtar and good morning everyone.
In recognition of our time I plan to cover key highlights from the quarter and outlook and then we can move to your questions.
Let’s start by reviewing the few key drivers of our financial performance.
After adjusting for unit cases without concentrated sales equivalent concentrated sales were in line with unit case sales for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Comparable currency neutral net revenue growth was 1% in the quarter and 2% year-to-date after excluding the impact of structural items.
Our topline growth slowed from the first half of the year due primarily to a volume deceleration principally in Europe and China.
Price mix was positive across each of our geographies with the exception of Asia Pacific due to geographic mix however due to the composition of growth we saw a negative geographic mix at the consolidated level resulting in 1% global price mix for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Comparable currency neutral growth profit was up 4% in both the quarter and year-to-date after excluding the impact of structural items.
Our gross margin expanded in the quarter due to pricing favorable geographic and product mix and a slight tailwind from commodity cost.
We generated one point of operating leverage in the quarter as continued investments behind our brand to accelerate growth including a mid-single digit increase in DME were offset by tight control over operating expenses and the reversal of certain expenses related to our long term incentive plan.
Comparable currency neutral operating income was up 5% in both the quarter and year-to-date after excluding the impact of structural items.
The impact of currency was a three point headwind on this quarters comparable operating income results.
Comparable ECS was even in the third quarter including a currency headwind of six points.
Although the currency headwind and operating income was in line with the outlook we provided last quarter foreign currency unfavorably impacted EPS by six points due to additional currency headwinds related to the measurement gains and losses recorded in the line item other income.
We generated $8 billion in cash from operations year-to-date and returned $1.9 billion to share on us through net share repurchases.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter of 2014 let me take a minute to update you on a few outlook items as we model our business.
We do not expect the current trajectory for unit case volume growth to improve materially for the remainder of the year.
We expect structural items to be a one to two-point drag on net revenue growth and approximate two-point drag on operating income growth in the fourth quarter of 2014.
After considering our hedge positions current spot rates and cycling of our prior-year rates we now expect a seven-point currency headwind on operating income during the fourth quarter of 2014 with a six-point impact on operating income for the full year 2014 We expect net interest income to be approximately $100 million for the full year 2014.
We now expect approximately $2.5 billion in net share repurchases for the year.
And we now expect our full year comparable currency neutral EPS growth to be below our long term target.
As we look ahead to 2015 we anticipate continued challenging macroeconomic conditions in most developed markets as well as some key emerging markets.
The best way to think about 2015 is as a year of transition.
We will start implementing changes to create our new operating model in the beginning of 2015 but incremental marketing investments and margin enhancements will pay time to fully materialize.
Therefore based on what we see today with our continuing need to invest in our business and recognizing that we are early in our planning process.
We do not expect our comparable currency neutral financial performance in 2015 to differ significantly from this year.
As we move through our planning process we look forward to providing more detail and a methodology to benchmark our progress through 2015 and beyond.
As such we plan to host the modeling call in December to discuss our 2015 outlook including further details of the impacts from our refranchising efforts in North America.
However given the amount of questions around currency for next year we did want to provide an initial estimate of the impact at the PBT line to better help you model into next year.
We currently expect a mid single-digit currency headwind on profit before tax in 2015.
We will come back with more contexts on the December call.
As Muhtar said we are committed to taking the right actions to reinvigorate our top-line growth over time.
We have a strong plan in place and we are aligned as a team to deliver against our objectives.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
There’s lot of questions that could be asked.
But I guess one that I just wanted to focus in on is the change in target from focusing on operating profit growth to pretax income.
And I guess it’s sort of suggest that there is contribution that will come from growth and equity income.
Can you just give us some sort of gauge in terms how much of the growth you actually expect to come from equity income? How much comes from operating profit? Just trying to get an idea of the proportions and whether or not there’s actually a suggestion that operating profit would grow slower than that in that goal? Bryan good morning again this is Muhtar.
I think the most important is that our EPS target remains high single digits and our target for profit before tax is still 6% to 8%.
And beginning in 2015 revenue growth will be added as a metric in the Company’s incentive plan as well.
So we’re obviously looking at a metric that really where the target remains 6% to 8%.
And moving the target to PBT really brings net interest and equity income into consideration.
And if you look back at the last three years they really has not been leverage between OI and BPT meaningfully.
So it would not have really made a difference.
Having said that it does go back to what we said about broadening our long-term net revenue target to mid single-digit.
And we think that there is opportunity to grow equity income as we advance our existing partnerships as well as explore similar models in the future.
And using PBT instead of OI should make operations in the way agnostic in terms of evaluating alternatives to extract value in a certain given category for example what you mentioned also which is partnership model versus concentrate model.
So I think it’s a better broadening – broaden way of ensuring that we can deliver long-term sustainable value to our shareholders.
And I’ll pass it on to Kathy if she wants to add anything.
Yes.
I’ll just also say Bryan remember we anticipate and we’ve been saying that with increases in interest rates we will have interest expense versus interest income as we’ve been generating.
So we don’t anticipate interest providing leverage below the line going forward.
So the bottom line we can’t make the 6 to 8 BPT without a significant amount coming from operating income.
Okay.
So no suggestions that there is a material change in operating income growth that you just trying to collect the other pieces below that? No not at all.
No suggestions in any respect.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Ian Shackleton from Nomura.
Yes.
Good morning.
And previously you’d indicated on the $1 billion product to the savings that will be all reinvested in media.
Perhaps you can give us some idea of how much of the $3 billion will be reinvested and also a savings of that will be through to 2019 it strikes me that U.S.
production change is that’s going to be quite backend loaded in that timeframe? Hi and this is Muhtar.
Good morning.
Firstly let me just give you some context around the base.
If you take -- firstly that’s why we put two numbers out $2 billion by 2017 and $3 billion by 2019 in order to show that everyone sees that this is not backend loaded its just a number that really will be generated and the run rate will be flowing through into our system and then we will invest some and use some for margin enhancement.
We did say that it will take some time to achieve 2015 is the critical year where we really is the most important year for us to make the changes that I mentioned to you in terms of a leaner better operating model and therefore I think it’s – that year should be seen as a year in transition.
The base really when you look at our company you see about $5.5 billion in total in marketing about $4 billion OpEx and really of the $3 billion about $1.5 billion will come out that base of around $9.5 billion to $10 billion and then other $1.5 billion will be of the $3 billion will come out at about $25 billion COGS base.
And it’s important to understand for everyone that we will not be taking down the second number $1.5 billion when we refranchise with our aggressive refranchising program particularly for the United States between now and 2017.
So that number will stay that way and then the bottlers will get additional opportunities for COGS synergy as the territories get refranchised on top of the $3 billon.
So I hope that gives you some flavor and explanation into and answers to some your questions.
And Kathy go ahead.
So Ian if I could just add that on the initial $1 billion program $400 million was in 2014 and we are on track.
So that continues into 2015 with the rest of the productivity giving us the flexibility to achieve our target over the long-term.
And just come on 2015 guide it obviously look quite bearish versus where the street is you seem to be highlighting there’s been quite a lot extra costs there without savings.
Is it also a comment that you’re quite cautious around revenue growth i.e.
you seem to be applying it will be more in line with 2014 which is more like 2% not a 3% plus? Is that right? Yes.
I think given the sort of macroeconomic volatility out there and given the fact that marketing investments are taking some time to flow back in terms of benefit.
I just say that’s the best we see right now and we will come back with a more robust and more detail discussion on 2015 in our December call.
Okay.
Thanks very much Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hi guys.
So I think we’re generally pleased that there’s more urgency around price mix and in North American franchise mix and the cost cutting.
But I do want to understand a little bit better how much of the cost cutting you think you’re going to need to reinvest? And really why you think you have to reinvest? And I say that because look you’re going to reinvest and I want to hear what but you’re going to get back to your previous growth rates.
But this whole time a lot of discussion is about blaming mostly short term macro issues.
So is there something that’s underlying [indiscernible] [EG] perhaps consumer transferred health and wellness or something.
And in fact is it a good ROI to invest in the business in marketing versus taking some to the bottom-line and to shareholders who have been rather disappointed recently? So any help there would be great? Yes.
I think we’re talking about is a balance approach bring us back to our long-term growth trajectory in terms of our financial performance.
That is a combination of both growth more realistic and better sustainable growth on the top-line as well as margin enhancements.
So as we said before this additional program of productivity will yield will generate two things we believe clearly better growth as well as better margin enhancement.
And the important thing here is that we will have a much better segmented geographic segmented analysis of countries where if you take the developed countries we will be driving profitable growth through innovation and productivity for example with top countries like Spain Korea Great Britain Japan U.S.
France and so forth.
And then in terms of the developing countries they will have a different slightly different role maximizing value through segmentation and ensuring that continue to build consumer loyalty markets like Latin America Turkey Poland Nigeria and an emerging markets like China India Indonesia Thailand and so forth will be maximizing more skewed on the volume side and investing for accelerated growth.
That is why we need -- we believe we need to continue to invest.
And the world is a very big place.
It’s not just the countries that we live in and we know.
It’s a very wide place out there and there is significant opportunities to continue to generate growth while at the same time and we believe that there is a very good line of sight of how we invest and how we get return from that investment very disciplined and very important transparent line of sight.
And that’s the way we look at the segmentation approach and therefore revenue which is the target of what we’ve indicated to you will be a composition of volume and price and so we’ve not throwing volume out of the door.
We’re not – it’s a balanced very balanced approach towards how we will generate revenue how that revenue will flow into bottom-line both through the additional revenue growth achieved as well as through enhancements in terms of the margin.
So that’s very helpful.
And in terms of the clear line of sight can you give us a sense this $3 billion is it half reinvested half to the bottom-line is it 60/40.
Can you give us a better sense of the split of reinvestment versus bringing it back to the bottom-line? Yes.
I think we’re not ready to share that detail with your right now.
However I think as we go along we’ll give you more insights.
But certainly it will not all be invested and it will not all flow into the bottom line but I think we see a clear balance there as we go forward.
And I think there’s different role for the -- obviously there’s a different role for the – of how you should think about $1.5 billion that is coming out of the base of total marketing and OpEx and also the $1.5 billion that is coming out of the COGS.
And I think both of them had slightly different roles in how they will be played out.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Muhtar I want to delve a bit more into the changes in price mix versus volume focus and the incentive plans.
I’m assuming the enhance pricing focus is more of a developed market phenomenon but maybe you can review for us how much of the change in focus going forward is in developed market versus emerging market versus how you managed previously? And then in North America has this enhanced pricing focus already played out to some extent given you’ve already had compensation changes there or should we expect North America to be part of that change in focus going forward also? I think the whole company you should think of entire company as evolving and changing but as I said I think the important thing is roles and responsibilities on a geographic basis with complete clarity of roles.
So if you take markets like the more developed markets of Korea and Spain and Great Britain and so forth Japan and United States Canada more focus on the balance of revenue what will drive the revenue slightly skewed in favor of price versus volume.
What will happen in the developing markets more like Latin America and some Eastern European markets and so forth Turkey much more straight line right in the middle balance of how that revenue number is going to be generated that revenue growth target is going to be generated.
And then you take the lower per capita more emerging markets that I mentioned the Indonesia’s and India’s and China’s of this world and Southeast Asia skewed more towards volume.
But that doesn’t mean there’s not a pricing metric and that doesn’t mean there’s no incentives based on revenue it just how they are skewed.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then while we’re on the subject of pricing can you characterize the pricing environment right now in North America obviously the 3% sparkling number in the quarter was more favorable than you’ve seen recently.
So I wanted to get an update there and how sustainable that performance could be going forward? Yes.
I’ll ask Sandy to comment on that North America number.
Sandy and Irial are here and I’ll ask Sandy to first comment on that.
Yes Dara our view of the pricing strategy in the U.S.
has been very consistent with what we said at the beginning of the year.
Very focused on making sure that we get our price that we balanced that with the package strategy that’s focused on our premium packs and our smaller pack which consumer’s want and continue to grow double-digit.
And we’re pleased that you can see in the Nielsen data and the marketplace that consumer is responding with accelerating sales growth actually volume was slightly better than we expected and clearly the volume on the premium packs that are the focus of our brand building agenda and supported by our advertising are driving the train.
So we’re just at the beginning though.
I think North America’s ability to play a primary revenue growth role in the company with this discipline balance strategy is in their early stages and we see a rational environment and we see a good competitive environment in which the category sales performance is accelerating and we’re optimistic about the future.
Irial do you want to add to that.
Yes.
I just remind all of us in the first quarter we said we’ll going to have a very disciplined approach to pricing in North America and the last three quarters we’ve demonstrated that and intension is to keep doing this.
And we feel good about it.
We feel we’re going in the right direction and feel very confident as we actually heading to the future on pricing in North America.
And maybe I’ll ask Ahmet to also comment on some of the – on the same subject as it pertains to Europe and as it pertains to Latin America and some other markets Ahmet? Thanks Muhtar.
As we talked about the revenue focus we are also focusing on balanced revenue growth in Coke International maybe couple of examples I could share is in Mexico for example where you see 2% growth in volumes for the quarter and more or less flat volumes.
We’re actually seeing fairly healthy price mix of about low to mid single-digits and our revenue growth reflects that as well.
Likewise in Brazil we’re also seeing mid single-digit revenue growth even though our volumes are up only 1%.
So we are quite cognizant of balancing our revenue growth with approximate pricing realization and volume at the same time.
And you want to say anything about Europe.
And Europe obviously we are not pleased with our volume performance of negative 5% but the challenging macros are bringing with it a fairly aggressive pricing environment in the marketplace and we are always trying to balance our pricing with volume and in this quarter I would say that we were a lot more in favor of pricing where we have realized three points of price mix in Europe which resulted in a revenue decline of 2% while our volumes were five.
Having said that this is a journey in an ongoing balancing act we would be focusing on balancing that a little better so that our share performance continues to be strong which it has been for the last four years and we are on that journey in Europe.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Schmidt from Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Can you just comment on how much you know relative to the environment what’s secular and cyclical? And then how your strategy change if it’s more secular and cyclical in terms of some of the consumption trends.
And then maybe obviously Muhtar you’ve considerable experience here is there been a period where you’ve seen things as difficult as they are now and kind of what it took to pull yourselves out of it? Yes.
I think Bill firstly it’s fair to say that we are in a challenged disposable income growth environment that’s no question.
The consumer is challenged everywhere around the world.
Its not related to Western developed markets of Europe and Japan United States and Canada but it’s also related to emerging markets.
There’s a lot of volatility in the world when you look at in the currencies when you look at interest rates when you look at the growth rates and when you actually factor in all the different geopolitical issues around the world.
There just is a lot of apprehension.
Less people traveling from because of disease because of scares because of other thing mobility is down and traffic is down and that all impacts particularly our immediate consumption business.
And so we’ve got to find a newer better ways to ensure that we can meet our products our brands our 3 000 products 550 brands can meet up with consumers on different occasions on better occasions on newer occasion and on more innovative ways to get our products in front of our consumers.
And certainly we recognize that is a challenging environment and we operate in that environment but we have a still one of the most dynamic consumer goods businesses in the world and we believe it can still over time grow at the rate that we have just outlined to you in terms of revenue growth.
Is that going to happen overnight? No.
Can we get there? Absolutely yes.
Then we have other elements to deal with in terms of trends.
And so we recognize that we have to do more works of diets and lights for example we continue to innovate.
We continue to launch new products which had different sweeteners and different sweetener basis.
That would continue at an expanded – in an expanded mode more innovation more packaging newer ways for consumers to connect.
Next year is the 100 year of the contour and we certainly we’ll expanding our I see focus in the – immediate consumption focus in the market which is really important way to build habit and build trends and build team incidents and then improve our marketing and improve our commercial strategies with our bottlers which we keep working at.
And so that’s where we are.
It is a very challenging environment anywhere you go around the world.
It’s not different.
Everyone is apprehensive whether its governments whether it’s NGO whether its businesses local businesses and international businesses.
So and I don’t see that improving overnight but I think it’s a new normal in that new normal we need to generate better growth.
Great thanks.
And Kathy just one quick one the share repurchase went from sort of range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion is a lower end of the range.
Is there any read through on that why you guys took it down I know it’s not hugely substantial? No specific read through I would just say that given where we are right now this is the guidance we thought we should provide at this time.
Okay.
But is cash flow come in softer? I’m just trying to figure out why it would come down if there’s no change to the cash flow algorithm? We did give different outlook on currency which does impact cash.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is Michael Steib from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could provide us with some more detail regarding the restructuring of your North American manufacturing footprints as one of the areas of the productivity program you talked about earlier.
What’s the scope of that program? What are the milestones that we should be looking for and how does that tie in with your commitment to refranchise the bulk of your territories by 2017? Yes.
It’s Irial.
On the supply chain North America I mean basically this is a continuation of what’s started a few years ago and it’s made up a many different aspects that we will share in due course.
As Kathy has already said and Muhtar but the key is that we’re looking at becoming a more effective and more efficient.
We have a very substantial supply chain footprint and we believe and have the plans to make sure we’ll become truly efficient and that means by streamlining in many different ways and simple illustrations or things like bottle [light-weighting] which is pretty well carried out across the world today whether it mechanizing at different parts of our supply chain whether its our footprint as supply chain and so forth.
So many different aspect but very clear plans behind this and high degree of confidence that we will achieve the synergies that we’ve set out.
And on that once again I wanted to reiterate the point that I made earlier.
This is Muhtar.
That you know of the $2 billion by 2017 and the $3 billion by 2019 incremental synergy program that is not going down as we substantially refranchise our business in North America.
Okay any further questions.
Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I guess first question is just relating to really the new operating model that you’re planning to implement then I’m just hoping to get a little bit more clarity around exactly what you’re doing to change the operating model both more at the business unit and maybe even at the country level? And is it something that gets rolled out globally or does this have phasing of kind of how it gets rolled out? And I know that you’ve really have been emphasizing patients and taking time to implement these changes but just wanted to get a little bit better sense of what takes longer – what can be implemented more quickly and where we can see the benefits to some of the changes more quickly? Yes Judy this is Muhtar.
Good morning.
Yes.
We are streamlining and simplifying our operating model for better speed better decision making and enhanced also local market focus that will help driving better growth help us to drive better growth.
And so this work is moving forward aggressively it’s global involve the center and involves the entire company.
And we expect to refocus the role for our corporate center and further scale our back office to support our processes and also policies on a global basis to get more synergies there and better service to our business unit that operate around the world that basically makeup the Coca Cola company and this will enable those operations to fully focus intently on demand creation in their market.
So this is really important.
It’s a de-layered organization.
It is a simplified organization.
It’s less touch points its faster decision making and that will take place starting with the beginning of the year and more will – you’ll hear more about that in the coming weeks.
So that’s important.
And I think it’s important to -- if I take just a back a minute and just to say again this is a certainly a difficult operating environment and that is clear no question about that.
But today we’re announcing I believe definitive actions as a team to address that environment and improve our execution.
The $3 billion in synergy enhancements are an added layer of segmented analysis on top of the $3 billion and metrics on a market-by-market basis is clear evidence I think of us taking action to control in a way what we can control.
And this is – I’m so pleased we have a team that has basically worked together for a long time and we know what it takes to win.
Today we are taking essentially additional steps to get us back on track over the longer term and we will do whatever we have to do to get there to get us across to that bridge.
We know it can be done and we know we will do it.
And I think the synergy program will help the new operating model will help the enhanced execution will help the better marketing will help and the improved commercial strategy will help along those lines.
Is the operating environment tough? It is tough.
But we are fortunate to be in the business that is one of the most dynamic businesses in the world the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink business.
And so that what I would leave you with.
Okay.
And then if I could just follow-up maybe Ahmet just the two markets were obviously the volume was very challenged where Europe and China which presumably had both the weather impact as well as the macro impact.
So if you can give us a little bit of color just in terms of how much you think the weather did play a role? And then it sound like in the fourth quarter you really are not anticipating much improvement globally from a volume perspective or is the weakness that expected in these two markets primarily or are other markets that you think could potentially be weaker or volatile as you get into the fourth quarter? Thanks Judy.
And you know we don’t like to talk about weather too much in this.
But I would say there was probably not so favorable weather.
You mentioned the macros let me start with China.
You could see from the numbers in China that total food and beverage industry NARTD industry is actually under pressure and the growth rates are coming down.
But I’m very pleased with our performance in China because now we can see a lot of traction on sparkling beverages which actually grew in the quarter trademark Coke was up 4% in China which shows that the strategy that we have shared with you all beginning of the middle of last year of segmented focus of our beverage in China is actually working.
We’re very pleased with our new launches of the isotonic that’s doing very well.
Very pleased with our innovations in sparkling with things like Schweppes plus.
So for China I’m very pleased with the results and we’re gaining share and our initiatives are working for us.
When it comes to Europe I have shared with you all the little earlier it is more a matter of balancing our price realization and volume a little bit more in the favor of volume and share still realizing good price mix I would say other than that Europe performance was mostly to do with the macros and you mentioned whether I will not.
Unidentified Analyst Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Thank you.
I guess a couple of questions here.
One on sort of the change to the long term algorithm and you talked about NARTD growth being more mid-single digits I guess going forward is that going back to Bill Schmidt’s question is that going down permanently from the 6% number that you guys had put out there before you structurally calling for lower category growth.
And then the second question I had related to the restructuring program I guess two questions on this first is it the macros is it the lower structural growth of the category that’s causing you to up this just eight months after your last program.
And then a clarification on the numbers which is part of the savings program announced in February related to not necessarily productivity but more efficient spending? Is there any of that’s built into this new $2 billion? Thanks.
Hey John this is Muhtar.
I think when you look at the current revenue figure that we’ve put out there if you take the middle – midpoint of that it’s only you know 50 basis points difference than what was out there before earlier.
So I don’t see that as a major difference in terms of the category in terms of the cyclical long term macro economic.
I think we see tremendous opportunity in this segment in this consumer very dynamic consumer goods industry.
So I see that that’s not any major shift.
We’ve been pleased with productivity in terms of what we’ve done to date.
Macros have not improved and so we have to do what we need to do in order to ensure that we can cross the bridge and get to a better both topline growth as well as bottom line delivery of performance.
And that’s what you see us doing right now.
This is – in the past you know you would have cycles and macro you would have two to three year a year or two years of down and then coming back up.
Now its constant volatility and constant actually more increased volatility everyday around the world and increased apprehension by the consumer.
So we had to do more.
We have to ensure that we have a creative mix ability to deliver our results and that’s what you see us doing.
Got it.
And I guess can I just follow – and again I – just a clarification on the sort of reallocation versus sort of where we review with incremental cross saves any color on that?  Kathy you want to add anything to in terms of the investments in terms of the efficiency what John talked about?  Sure Muhtar.
So in the – first of all going back to the first question around the net revenue.
The two things that are primarily driving the change would be the value growth that we see coming from Emerging market as well as the guess mobiles and nature of the emerging markets and then a recognition that our partnership models would drive value for the business that will impact that with the income so I just wanted to add that particular point.
And then on the productivity I – don’t remember the productivity question….
What I was asking is if I remember correctly that the February productivity program excluded some through productivity and then some sort of reallocation of spending to more efficient methods.
What I’m asking is there of that also built into the incremental $2 billion from to that?  Yes there actually is John.
In terms of the way what we have done in the past is we’ve said that productivity – the origin of billion is made up of both OpEx as well as reallocation of marketing to ensure that marketing is more effective and more efficient in terms of its delivery of results.
And so that is an ongoing program that we have in terms of how we will continue to reallocate marketing to drive better value and better return.
That is there.
That is ongoing however of course the scale of what we are doing in terms of OpEx flexibility is going to be much much bigger here and – but the vast majority of the additional savings programs is hard savings in productivity.
The vast majority is hard savings as opposed to reallocation.
We will ensure that amount of money that’s invested has a return that’s a different answer but we will make it is actually I would say the majority; vast majority in fact is higher savings.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.
Thanks good morning.
Also on the subject of media and marketing spend when all is said and done Kathy or Muhtar for calendar ’14 you mentioned a double digit increase in media in the quarter but when we look at the total marketing spend how much do you think that will be up one all said and done for ’14.
And then when we think about the comparatively lackluster ’15 you are talking about how much of that is attributable to the rate of increase in marketing spend you are intending next year?  I think when all said and done I’d say probably Mark it will be about mid-single digits in 2014 and I think we’ll give you again in December we’ll come back and give you more flavor about how we are thinking of that in 2015 and beyond.
Is there anything – is it reasonable to assume it goes up at a faster rate in ’15 given the topline challenges?  I wouldn’t assume that.
Okay.
And just one point of clarification back on John’s question about the 3 billion you mentioned Muhtar vast majority being OpEx are you talking 80% 70% 90% can you give us some sense of that number?  Look I said the vast majority is hard savings in productivity programs.
And that is composed as I mentioned earlier in answering another question that is composed of a base of about 9.5 10 billion comprises of marketing and OpEx and then another base which is about – driving about 1.5 billion by 2019 and other 1.5 billion by 2019 is driven by COGS savings but these are hard savings not in terms of just soft or reallocations.
Got it.
Okay.
Great thanks Muhtar.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Powers from UBS.
Great.
Thanks two questions if I could.
I guess first despite I guess some disappointments in some quarters from a strategic standpoint this does seem like a fairly substantial change from where you were in July strategically.
Can you talk about the process that you went through internally to get here do you view these changes more reactive or proactive and to the extent that much of the work has really been accelerated since mid-summer how confident are you that this is the right program why is 2 billion for example the right number and not three or some other figure? That’s like kind of the first question.
And secondly as you seem closer to a defined timeline for refranchisement in North America.
Can you help us dimension the financial terms and the economics of that activity just in broad brush strokes acknowledging you’ll probably cover more this December but do you anticipate refranchising to result in an economic loss or gain versus your 2010 investments and how much dilution should we expect as we go forward to the program again just in broad brush strokes? Thanks.
Yes this is Muhtar.
First I think the base on the collective judgment of myself and my team we – as I said to you this is an acknowledgment of continuing difficult operating environment and controlling and taking action to control what we can control.
That will mean two things create a flexibility to the synergies and also ensure that we can enhance our margins and build a credible and sustainable revenue growth on the topline that is the key here which this industry lends us to believe and clearly the history has shown that this industry is the most dynamic and it continues to be and therefore we believe that when we segment our markets in the way we have segmented them continues to ensure that we have the right metrics in place and the right incentives in place that we will perform better.
And we’re almost finished with this year and we are going to be embarking upon implementing this now so that we can start the year running and we will give you a very clear dashboard in December where you can with three or four things to follow you can judge our progress judge our progress as to how we’re implementing and generating the results out of this program.
That to me I think is going to be key following our progress and we will follow it and you will be able to follow it.
We’ll give you that dashboard so that you can ensure that every quarter we can have a discussion on the key four or five elements of success on how we implement how we implement the operating model how we implement better marketing how we implement better commercial strategies and how that’s impacting the topline and what impact that’s having on margins.
As far as you know the North American franchising I’ll ask Sandy to comment on that but again it’s a clear timeline first by 2017 and then what we will have left is about one third and then what we do with the rest is latest by 2020 again finding the right home Sandy.
Yes sure Steve on North America refranchising I go back to the objectives of the effort which is to restructure a system that has been placed for over a 100 years to get it in better position for growth with better focused customer management and more efficient product supply and back services and to refranchise to the best Coca Cola bottlers in the United States under a new franchise agreement that is fit for purpose for growth.
And we are very optimistic about our ability to deliver that kind of growth profile and to do that in a way that makes our business more economic and makes our system more economic going forward.
So as we point to the December discussion that Kathy is going to lead will have a number of the details that will help you model this going forward but our strategic mission has not changed and our optimism for success in doing this with our bottlers is as high as ever.
So thank you Kathy Ahmet Sandy Irial and Tim despite gaining global value share our year-to-date performance is not where it needs to be.
The scope and pace of our actions have to increase and we’re moving very quickly to streamline our operations and further align our incentives to drive revenue growth while simultaneously driving costs out of our business through an aggressive plan.
While the short term macroeconomic environment remains challenging we are confident in our ability to return sustainable growth as the long term dynamics of our industry remain promising.
Our brands and our global system are unparallel and we are all fully dedicated to strengthening our position as the world’s leading beverage company.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you all for holding.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola’s Media Relations Department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find Webcast materials in the Investor section of our company Web site at www.coca-colacompany.com that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company Web site.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning’s discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our Web site for this information.
In addition this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company’s most recent periodic SEC report.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President President of Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments will also be available for our Q&amp;A session.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
During our last Earnings call we articulated 5 strategic actions to reignite our growth and committed to providing you an update on our progress as we move forward and into 2015.
So today I'm going to start with some highlights from our fourth quarter performance and then review the progress we've made against our 5 strategic actions.
For those of you following our Web cast you can see our quarterly performance on our new scorecard on Slide 4.
Overall our performance came in slightly ahead of where we had previously expected.
This was driven by some net positives above the operating income line slightly offset by higher than expected returns to remeasurement impacting profit before tax.
As the top line structurally adjusted comparable currency neutral net revenues grew 4% in the quarter driven by a balance between volume and underlying price mix in what was a challenging macro environment.
At the profit level structurally adjusted comparable currency neutral operating income grew 7% in the quarter while we continue to invest heavily behind our media with double digit increases in the quarter and full year.
Importantly there are some highlights for the quarter.
We continue to focus pricing and revenue realization in key developed markets with North America and Europe both delivering positive price mix in the quarter and for the full year.
Our core strategies and our diversified global portfolio enables us to gain global value share in non-alcoholic ready to drink Sparkling beverages as well as Still beverages in the quarter.
This is a key metric for us particularly in a challenging macro environment.
As we announced last week we also continue to strengthen our overall portfolio’s billion dollar brand and in particular our Still brands.
Gold Peak a premium tea brand in the United States benefited from great marketing strong media and stepped up execution to achieve this status.
Furthermore FUZE TEA our popular mainstream tea brand now available in nearly 40 markets around the world reached this status in less than three years demonstrating the strength of our systems marketing and executional capabilities.
And finally LOHAS our innovative water brand in Japan regained billion dollar brand status in 2014.
This brings our total number of billion dollar brands to 20 out of which 14 are Still brands.
Just five years ago we had 14 billion dollar brands.
Since 2010 on average we’ve added more than one new billion dollar brand each year to the list.
Stepping back from our quarterly performance I would like to talk about the bigger picture in 2014 a year of significant change for our company that will continue in 2015.
Specifically I want to discuss our five strategic actions to reignite our which are first; targeting disciplined brand and growth investment Second; driving revenue and profit growth with clear portfolio roles across our market Thirdly; refocusing on our core business model Fourth; driving efficiency through more aggressive productivity and fifth -- last but not least streamline and simplify our organization.
While we're making solid progress we have more to do.
In 2014 we invest significantly in both our brands and in incremental growth opportunities.
We substantially increased our media investment in markets and categories where our media was underfunded relative to the market opportunity where we had the right price tag channel architectures and where we had clear executional alignment with our bottlers.
The quality of our media has been increasing and we intend to improve it even further under the leadership of our new global Chief Marketing Officer Marcos de Quinto.
We're seeing initial success as exemplified by North America where our incremental media investments coupled with our segmented price tag strategies drove revenue growth in our Sparkling portfolio through strong 4% price mix in the second half of the year.
This gives us confidence that when we invest in our brands align on our system plans and focus on execution we do see positive results.
And looking beyond our existing portfolio we continue to focus on expanding our participation across a range of consumption [occasions].
Today the average household globally consumes 26 beverages per day and of these 26 beverages only 1.4 are Coca-Cola company brand.
Our opportunity to capture more beverage [occasions] is just immense.
And for that reason we've announced strategic investments in Keurig Green Mountain and Monster Beverage Corporation both of these investments underscore not only our ability to adapt to changing consumer trend but also our commitment to accelerate innovation.
Next we expanded our market segmentation recognizing that each of our markets has a specific role in order to sustainable revenue growth.
Some markets focus on price realization others on volume and the remainder on the balance of the two.
Importantly our proxy statement will be coming out in the coming weeks and you will see the revised intensive metrics which will add revenue growth directly aligned to those market roles.
We also made headways in refranchising our bottling operations both in the United States and internationally.
In North America we closed several refranchising transactions in 2014 and laid out a clear path and timeline to refranchise the remaining territories.
Specifically we refranchised territories representing approximately 5% of the U.S bottler-delivered business in 2014 and have already signed definitive agreements to continue refranchising a similar amount in the first half of 2015.
These agreements along with our ongoing work give us confidence that we will continue to accelerate our rate of refranchising each year and achieve our goal to retain a maximum of about one-third of the U.S bottler-delivered business by the end of 2017.
And it is our intent to refranchise the remaining territories by 2020 at the latest.
As we reached the end phase in North America these actions will drive higher operating margins lower capital spending and invested capital and improve the ROIC for our company.
Outside of North America we announced two transformative changes to our bottling landscape in critical high growth markets around the world.
First in Indonesia we announced a joint venture in Coca-Cola Amatil Indonesia that will help our system to capture the long-term opportunity in this extremely attractive emerging market.
We also entered into an agreement to re-architect our African bottling system with the creation of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa which will serve 12 Southern and East African countries and will be a top ten global bottler once the transaction is completed.
Importantly Coca-Cola Beverages Africa will have the scale resources and efficiencies to fund the investment required to capture the strong long term growth potential in Africa.
These markets will be long term growth engines for our company so it is absolutely critical that we invest sufficiently today to prime those engines for decade to come.
In order to reinvest our business and deliver against our long term financial targets we embarked upon an expanded productivity plan that will result in a total $3 billion in annualized savings by 2019.
As Kathy discuss in detail during our modeling call in December this represents the significant reduction to our investable spend base and our efforts are on track.
As you’ve seen in the press we've began work on reducing positions that are no longer aligned to our growth priorities or are deemed redundant as we streamline our operation.
While this is never an easy process it is absolutely essential to ensuring that our business is wired for greatest speed responsiveness as well as innovation.
And importantly it also frees up the resources we need to reinvesting in the business to accelerate our growth.
Fifth and finally towards the end of 2014 we begin the process of streamlining and simplifying our operating model.
We announced the streamlining of group functional layer and began standardizing the key processes across our business units.
This will not only reduce our cost structure but more importantly will create a more nimble organization that is wired to act swiftly and rapidly in today's dynamic landscape.
In summary I am confident that these strategic actions are laying the grand work for accelerated top and bottom line growth in the future and delivering the long term shareowner value you expect.
Looking ahead we will continue to make progress against our actions to regain momentum.
But as we’ve said before 2015 will be a transition year for the company as we implement our new operating model and our incremental media investments in both 2014 and 2015 taking time to pay off in full.
Further we expect the global consumer environment to remain volatile geo-political hotspots around the world and potential deflation environment in Europe and continued softness in many emerging and developing markets around the could to be partially offset by an improving environment in the United States.
So against this back drop what remains to be seen is how quickly and to what extent lower oil prices trickle down to impact consumer discretionary spending in both importing as well as oil exporting nations.
Therefore we will focus on what we can control; we will implement our strategies with focus and conviction investing for the long term in emerging market as well as taking advantage of opportunities to solidify our position in the growth market of today and tomorrow.
While in 2015 we expect to grow comparable currency neutral EPS mid-single digit from 2016 on we intend to be back to delivering again a long term target of high single digit comparable currency neutral EPS growth.
We will strengthen our leading brands through incremental media investments and best in class marketing campaign.
We will deliver a [net] change in productivity and complete the majority of North America franchising both of which will drive growth and improve our margin structure.
And finally we will continue to enhance our marketing leading capabilities to provide our customers and consumer with the innovative and refreshing product they expect from the Coca-Cola Company.
I will now hand the call to our Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller who will provide you with a more detailed look at our financial performance as well as the outlook on our business for 2015.
Thank you Muhtar and good morning everyone.
Our performance in the fourth quarter was slightly ahead of our expectations due primarily to three factors.
First several markets around the world delivered slightly better top line performance thanks to a strong finish during the holiday season.
Second gross margin came in slightly better than anticipated and third operating expenses were lower than expected which led to comparable currency neutral margin expansion.
We are pleased with where the quarter landed.
Structurally adjusted comparable currency neutral revenue growth was driven by 3% growth in concentrate shipment and 2% underlying price mix.
Concentrate shipment outpaced unit cases in the quarter driven by an extra selling days.
However for the full year concentrate shipment were in line with unit cases.
Consolidated price mix in the quarter was driven by pricing initiatives in North America Latin America and Europe.
Importantly as we've done throughout 2014 we continue to invest the behind our brand.
During the quarter our marketing expenditures grew high single digit resulting in mid-single digit growth for the year.
This increase in annual marketing expenditures was driven by a double digit increase in media investment as we continue to drive efficiencies within our overall marketing budget to put against our media spend.
Our fourth quarter comparable EPS was $0.44 which included a 10 point currency headwind.
On a comparable currency neutral basis our EPS grew 5% in both the quarter and the full year.
Items impacting comparability in the quarter were primarily related to the impact of changing the exchange rate used to measure our Venezuela subsidiaries net monetary assets into U.S.
dollars a write down on the competent sales receivable from our bottling partner in Venezuela non-cash charges related to refranchising certain territories in North America and cost associated with our previously announced $3 billion productivity program.
Given increased uncertainty and lack of liquidity in Venezuela we remeasured our bolivar-denominated net monetary assets at the end of the quarter using the SICAD II exchange rate.
We are also using the SICAD II exchange rate to translate our Venezuelan subsidiaries local currency income statement into U.S.
dollars beginning in January 2015.
The receivable write down was recorded as a result of revised assessment of the U.S.
dollar value we expect to receive.
Despite a difficult operating environment in Venezuela the Coca-Cola system remains committed to the market and will continue producing and selling our products that Venezuelan consumers enjoy on a daily basis.
As you saw on our scorecard full year free cash flow with $8.2 billion up 3% primarily due to the efficient management of working capital and cycling incremental pension contributions last year partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the deconsolidation of the Company’s Brazilian bottling operations in July 2013.
For the year cash returned on invested capital declined 32 basis points due to the $1.5 billion investment we made in Keurig Green Mountain.
As we look ahead to 2015 we anticipate continued challenging macroeconomic conditions in many markets around the world.
Despite this we're on track with the access we laid out during our last earnings call and we remain confident in the outlook we provided in December.
Therefore we expect our comparable currency neutral EPS growth in 2015 to be mid-single digit roughly in line with our growth rate in 2014.
As you’ll recall from the modeling call in December there are many puts and takes to our P&amp;L in 2015 with the exception of currency these are not changed.
Therefore I'm not going into detail on this call but you can see the various line items on Slide 13.
After considering our hedge positions current spot rate and the cycling of our prior-year rates we now expect an approximate five-point currency headwind on net revenues with a seven to eight-point headwind on profit before tax for the full year 2015.
This is a stronger headwind than the previously communicated five to six-point for profit before tax due primarily to the effect from translating our bolivar-denominated profit at the SICAD II rate and to a recent decline in several emerging market currencies which we do not hedge.
In terms of coverage we're fully hedged on the Euro Yen and Sterling for 2015.
We also have near term coverage in place across several other major currencies.
There are a couple of phasing items you should consider when modeling the first quarter.
Due to our fiscal calendar there are six additional days in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Although that will benefit revenue variable cost such as marketing sales and distribution expenses will also occur to a much greater degree in the first quarter.
We expect the Venezuelan pricing provision will continue to negatively impact our net revenue and operating income in the first quarter of 2015 as we began to recognize the impact in the second quarter of last year.
And we expect structural items primarily related to North America to be a headwind in the first quarter.
Taken together we expect structural adjustment and the Venezuelan pricing provision to be an approximate two-point headwind on net revenues and an approximate three-point headwind on a profit before tax.
In addition we will cycle the timing of expenses in the first quarter of last year when we had four-points of operating leverage.
Therefore we expect the comparable currency neutral operating leverage will be negative in the first quarter.
Finally we currently expect currency will be an approximate six-point headwind on net revenues and an approximate eight-point headwind on profit before tax in the first quarter as we cycle more favorable rates from the prior year.
We currently anticipate closing the transaction with Monster Beverage Corporation at the beginning of the second quarter note that there is a slightly later than our initial expectations of the first quarter due to various closing considerations.
At this stage we do not anticipate any material changes to our structural impact guidance from December and of course we will update you along the way if there were to be a change.
In closing we're confident in our strategies and in the actions we've already taken to regain our momentum.
2015 will be a transition year as we implement significant change in our company and continue to reinvest in our business.
We absolutely believe that the Coca-Cola Company is best positioned to capture growth in the non-alcoholic beverages and to continue to deliver long term value to our shareholders.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Hey good morning everyone.
I've got a question about -- Muhtar in your prepared remarks you mentioned the consumer environment remain volatile in terms of your expectations for '15.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of what type what range of volatility you might have embedded in your sort of plan for '15 maybe talk a little bit more specifically about the consumer environment both in Europe and Latin America where those are really two important markets for the company and where it seems volatile and then finally just maybe how that might affect your decision to spend more vagaries in those markets this year given the volatility -- I know there is a lot there but? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Brian.
First just at a very high level 10 000 feet 2015 I think we expect the macro environment to even become a little more volatile versus 2013 and 2014.
As the micro economic vagaries get worse in certain parts of the world so rate of interest currency certainly will add to volatility growth gaps will in some parts are going to -- versus other parts are going to grow.
Take for example the United States and Great Britain two large western economies starting the year of 2015 strong whereas the Euro zone Japan and most of the emerging worlds starting the year slower.
So there is this kind of gap and some catching up to do.
We're gaining share across the world in Sparkling juices important categories.
The industry -- we see some evidence that there are some things that are working for us but we need to be cautious and take it quarter-by-quarter I think that’s really is important then as far as Latin America is concerned I think Columbia seems to do continue to do really well as an economy and I think there is some more lifting to do in Mexico and Brazil and South zone.
I was recently in Latin America and our business there continues to -- we have fantastic group of bottling partners investing for the short and long-term growth and we continue to gain share we have a fantastic -- very strong packaged product channel segmentation and architecture and pricing competitive but at the same time great revenue growth management strategies working there.
And so Europe as towards the last quarter quarter four which we're just reporting on the Southern European countries continue to be challenged.
Germany our business was very much in the positive Northern Europe had a better environment for us -- was a better environment for us than the South and Eastern Europe is again challenged by some of the macro volatility that spills over across from the East.
So I think that how will see.
And then Asia I think we're still very bullish and Africa and you see the actions we have taken related to the reorganizing our bottling structure to even better suit the growth potential and opportunities there in both Indonesia the fourth most top of the nation in the world as well as the very dynamic one plus billion consumers in Africa.
And just -- fair to say that you’ve got a sort of wider range of volatility or contingencies for that type of volatility built into the 2015 plan to -- maybe they’re normal just in such a volatile environment? Yes and I think when you look at LRP or non-alcoholic ready to drink beverages Brian I think what you would see probably is maybe a hundred basis points less growth versus the sort of previous years.
It's again anybody's guess as to how quickly some of those economies are going to come back.
So that we have definitely all those contingencies built in and maybe I can refer to Ahmet to give you a few more sort of snapshots of the world in terms of micro and macro picture.
Ahmet? Thanks Muhtar.
Brian the only thing I would add to Muhtar's calculation is that volatility sort of comes on top of sort of slowdown.
But what's working for us is that we're getting more and more traction on our plans and programs working with our bottlers.
I was in about four five different countries over the last couple of weeks and even though we witness economic volatility or uncertainty even in Northern Europe yes there is quantitative easing yes there is lower oil prices but it is uncertain yet whether the consumer will really benefit from that.
But even within that our plans that address the right pricing and packaging and the right level of media investment and our alignment with our bottling system is giving us confidence that we could actually weather this volatility in line with the guidance that has been provided.
So couple of bright spots too I was in India probably one country where there is a lot of optimism inside the country in terms of economic development.
And as you know we have an incredible momentum in India over the last seven or eight years especially last year.
And our plans continue to build on each other from year to year so that's pretty.
I was in Brazil again a similar story.
After the elections there was come cautious optimism and that sort of caution side of that continues there is still a bit of optimism.
But we do continue to deliver our results despite that environment as you know Brazil had a mid-single digit growth at the end of the quarter.
Yes it was cycling better numbers from last year.
But we've also had very strong share gains in Brazil.
So I would say that is our story there is volatility on top of a slowdown but we do have traction with our plans and programs in the marketplace with close alignment with our bottlers.
Bryan one last thing I want to add to what Ahmet said and what I had said earlier to your question about doesn’t make sense to invest in media and marketing.
And the answer is absolutely yes when we are able to target our investments in media and the way we're doing it segmenting them by the different countries and the different regions of the world and improving not just the quantity but also the quality of the media that’s what one of the main important factors that we see driving a better revenue number -- a better price mix number.
So the two are really connected and that’s what I really want to -- so gain in share improving on the top line through all the actions we're taking of which targeted media increased an improved quality media is one of those.
Alright thank you for that look forward seeing you next down at Cagney.
Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
So I guess my question is really relating to the strong price mix that you saw in North America in the quarter.
Obviously you've been focused on getting mix impact and rational pricing can you just speak to how much of the improvement was mix driven as opposed to maybe cycling some of the height and promotional environment last year.
And as you think about 2015 and beyond just thinking about some of the mix acceleration potential on the pricing spot in North America.
I'll let Irial answer that question and then also Sandy will add labor to that too.
I think the most important things are 12 quarters ago Sandy and I spoke on this topic and we iterated our belief in having balanced price mix volume growth in North America.
And we delivered another epic quarter this year and our plan is to deliver again next year in the same way.
But in terms of your question on mix and headline price it's a balanced approach.
Yes in the fourth quarter last year we were trending some lower numbers when we had some heavy promotional activity but when you look over the half year as Muhtar said we grew pricing 4%.
So we feel very good about the actions we’re taking we're feeling very good about how the trade is reacting and more importantly we're feeling very good that our marketing and our execution are coming together in a way that really adds incremental value to our system.
But I'll ask Sandy to add to that.
As Irial said it's a consistent strategy and the strategy is born of where the consumer wanted to go.
The consumer is buying smaller special packages of our Sparkling beverage brand and accelerating that purchase and we're seeing the kind of mix benefit from that that you described.
But that’s coupled with the disciplined approach to rate and volume.
Because in the end what we're trying to do is expand the values and usefulness of our brand and create value for our customers and through the consistent execution of that strategy we're seeing in 2014 solid year but a year of improving performance through the year and we'll continue to pursue that disciplined strategy in 2015.
Got it okay and Kathy if can just have a quick follow up on just in terms of the commodities in 2015 what have you locked in in terms of your exposure there.
And as you think about different commodity complexes that are turning more favorable.
How much of that could we expect to see drive some of that margin improvement particularly markets like North America? The commodities environment for 2015 commodities we expect really to be benign for -- there are some that are absolutely favorable.
But then we have other challenges and depending on the amount in North America but of that in North America we also have impact of secondary exchange embedded into our commodity.
So we really anticipated being more of a benign commodity environment for us versus they have any significant impact or benefits from it.
Our next question is from John Faucher from JPMC.
Wanted to follow a little bit on Muhtar on your comment on Europe and obviously it's been a difficult market over the past couple of years.
What's the right way to think about sort of glide pass getting back to growth there? Is it something where QE works and we start to see the economy come back you think you can get back to consistent growth and what are some realistic sort of ranges of expectations for 2015 and potentially into 2016? Thanks.
Yes well I think we're all going to watch what's happening with the quantities easing John in Europe 18 months of the planned amount 60 billion and month of Euros coming kicking in whether that will have an impact or not we will watch and see.
I think stability is the key word for Europe as we go into 2015.
So not getting much worst and I think in some areas continued volatility and South Europe is going to continue to be certainly to be a challenge.
So I don't think there is going to be suddenly a lifting of the cloud for the consumers in the Southern belt of Europe I think Germany is the very low -- current exchange rate I think will help exporting countries for sure how soon will that trickle in related to Germany related to other export markets from Europe.
But that's a positive; the quantitative easing is a positive.
The notion that most consumers now are used to this environment and feel that it's not going to get much worse it may get a little better because of the [indiscernible] so we’ll have to see but we think that it will continue to be challenged and then you've got of course the whole political environment to sort of basically weave into the equation that political environment is something that is an unknown for us all.
I think that's how I would see as far as growth yes there will be pockets of growth in Europe and there will be continued pockets of challenges but I think what we see was our -- we've very strong plans in place with our bottling partners for growth in Europe and we'll see how -- we've all kinds of contingencies built into the plan in Europe also and we're going to take it quarter-by-quarter.
Great thanks and if I can ask one follow up to Kathy.
Kathy you talked about your FX coverage on translational for '15 obviously what this can lead to sometime is sort of year two impact any thoughts on 2016 and how you’ll manage what could potentially be some FX headwind there as the hedges roll-off? Thanks.
Yes so John for 2016 we are also hedged on our major currencies and at this point also have some on other currencies as well.
So we'll manage the impact and we're at pretty good rates at this point with that hedging.
So basically we don't think that there is a relative issue at this point.
Thank you our next question is from Steve Powers from UBS.
Hey thanks good morning.
I guess one quicker clarification question and a slightly more thematic one.
First obviously there are lot of moving parts driving pricing mix in the quarter globally and I was wondering if you could just focus in on rate increases and talk about trend there because my guess is that rate lagged overall price mix in North America which you talked about but Europe the volume [best] looks like in Latin America and then rate was probably stronger than price mix and Eurasia Africa Pacific and across the whole company so any help there would be great just parsing our overall rate trend.
And then more broadly it sounds like your productivity targets remain unchanged from last fall which isn't really surprising as it's only been a few months but at the same time we've already seen announcements of headcount reductions that likely we're not envisioned prior to your October update.
So I’m wondering why we're not seeing more incrementality sooner on that front or perhaps we are it’s just being absorbed by the macro headwinds so if you can clarify that that would be great.
Steve this is Muhtar good morning again.
As far as the rate versus mix I think it's basically completely depended on the country and the environment and the region.
So there is no trend globally this is on average this much rate and this much -- it all depends on price tag channel architecture our position in the market the strength of our brand how effective is our marketing driving the result that we need which is all work in progress.
So I think it all depends on -- and I'll let Sandy comment on the United States on that but it's very much dependent on the region and depended on the country and depended on the circumstances.
I think that's really what I would say and then Sandy you want to just address the United States part of that question? Sure I mean our strategy in the U.S.
is again as Irial sad very consistent.
We view there to be a significant upside pricing opportunity in the Sparkling beverage category.
We are driving that with significant investments in brand building and execution of price package architecture that will expand margins for our system and also for our customers and that involves a very healthy rate program but at the same time we're executing with tremendous amount of energy multiple proprietary and other small packages that the consumer is buying at accelerating rates I mean for example mini Cans increased by 15% in the fourth quarter and that's following the consumer to smaller packaged sizes of the brands they love and that combination of rate and mix is creating a good balance with volume to healthy top-line growth picture.
And see just on your question on why -- what on productivity I would say to you that they reorg and how we're flattening the organization and the number of -- and announced cuts were all part of the program -- totally part of the program.
So there is nothing that just being executed and that's all.
And as Kathy -- we standby what Kathy said in the modeling call in December we're on track with the 500 plus million dollars piece of the productivity program for 2015 and we're on track with that.
So but just to emphasize all of what you see what you hear what you read was part of the program.
Okay.
So just two points of clarification just a follow-up on those answers thank you very much.
On the price mix I guess maybe just Kathy -- specifically to Eurasia Africa where I am assuming great pricing in Russia for example is quite positive should we be expecting this negative mix trend to persist in '15 this is one pop on pricing.
And then Muhtar to your point on the part of the plan does that mean the headcount reductions for example that were announced was that part of the original $1 billion or is that part of the additional $2 billion that was announced last call? Thanks.
Just quickly on the last piece of your question it was part of the additional 2 billion and then as far as the rate increases I will defer it to Ahmet if you want to just refer to that part of the question.
On the markets like EAG we price in line with inflation we may be slightly below inflation slightly ahead at times so you should expect to see consistent rate increase more or less in that range.
Fourth quarter for EAG was a bit of an anomaly there was a sort of geographic mix impact that was driven by cycling of Galland shipment.
So if you look at full year price mix realization of EAG it’s a healthy 4 points.
So I wouldn't look at Q4 to draw any conclusion.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
So given the pressure that currency is placing and kind of all this macro volatility.
Do you anticipate or can you actually accelerate anything around your cost cutting plans to offset this or do you plan taking even more pricing in places like Europe Eurasia Africa or Asia-Pacific where does it not look like you are offsetting your currency moves as much? Yes I think Ali it’s just on a broad base answer to your question.
I think it's really critical that we balance the needs in the marketplace and the needs for us to be healthy in the marketplace on a both medium and long-term basis that's why we hold accountable all our business unit President's for local currency.
And I think that we're very happy with our progress so far with what we're doing with our productivity initiatives and what the current results are for those productivity initiatives so far early days.
But we certainly are looking to do more where it makes sense.
But one thing you will not see us is taking -- basically actions in the marketplace that weakens our position for the medium and long-term that's the critical piece that I want to stress.
So in other words we shouldn’t anticipate more pricing as FX continues to be at a negative pressure.
And if you can answer that also in the context of the benign mix of commodities in 2015 and if that's a limit on your ability to take pricing again to offset FX in the bottle price context? I think we work with all the different levers that are available to us.
How our better marketing --more marketing is working driving results how the investments are working with that we're putting in the marketplace with our bottling partners our basic brand strength in the marketplace all of those things.
And especially in terms of commodities again that's something that is very volatile in the world that we live in.
Four or five months ago if someone said we’d be looking at the current price of oil no one would have believed this.
So I think everything is changing very rapidly and we are remaining flexible on what we can achieve to the best of our ability both in pricing both in terms of investing for the future as well as making sure that our investments are targeted and our segmentation works.
So I think there is not one solution the segmentation is really driving better results than we have anticipated when we put that program into place.
Okay.
So I am just trying to understand so we could anticipate if the consumer is ready to do it and if the segmentation suggest we could see more pricing align with inflation because of currencies being so negative.
Is that kind of what you’re saying? Ali I'll just leave to what I said.
Our next question is from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Financials.
Just a quick one Kathy a technical question the six additional days in the first quarter is there some level to get back later in the year.
Do we see reverse of that in the fourth quarter for example? Based on our corporate calendar the six additional days get pushed into the first quarter.
But they come out in the fourth quarter.
Okay fair enough.
That’s all I've got.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Schmidt from Deutsche Bank.
Wanted to ask sort of a housekeeping question.
Can you just tell us what the pricing would have been in Latin America if you were at SICAD II for this year and last? I think what we talked about is oil pricing in terms of the local currency we pick.
So whether we re-measured that in SICAD I or II it will be the same number.
Okay I was just trying to get at what impact Venezuela had on the price it’s just for modeling for next year I think there was sort of Venezuela anomaly this quarter that might have taken that pricing down next year.
So for next year the impact of share pricing law will continue in Venezuela.
That is what actually impacts our revenue in Venezuela so its caps our ability to take revenue that does continue obviously it's kind of cost -- that are over in 2015.
But it will not be a structural item because we [indiscernible] as of the second quarter.
But then -- yes we also do have an impact to our revenues from a different exchange rate and that will be considered into currency.
And then just on Asia Pacific we came in a little bit late then our expectations.
And I think it's one of the lowest volumes outcomes in while and in you prepared comments it seems like you're fairly safe about that segment.
So was there an anomaly this quarter that took the volume a little bit softer and the price mix of negative and other is a mix element there.
But any comments on that would be very much appreciate.
Hey Bill this is Ahmet.
I'll try and address that; one big thing was the timing of the Chinese New Year.
But I wouldn’t conclude my comments without saying that the market in China specially the food and beverage market has been weakest in the last 10 years.
But I would also say that we've been consistently applying our strategy that we have covered with you guys number of times before.
And resulting in fairly significant share gains in China and as you know in Japan and in the middle of last year there was increase in taxes and we're continuing to see the effect of that.
But still delivering almost close to flat but not that close it’s minus one.
So -- but the biggest item there was the timing of the Chinese New Year as well as continued sort of industry headwinds in China.
And just one quick last one if I could.
Just too kind of gauge the progress of the productivity program is it good metric to look at the cooperate and allocated line in the segment data.
So should that come down as kind of the restructuring savings come through? The cooperate on allocated line.
So yes that is one place where you will be able to see the restructuring come through but as Muhtar said we are on track with everything that we have announced to date.
Now I would like to turn the call back to Muhtar Kent for closing remark.
Thank you Kathy Ahmet Sandy and Tim.
In summary we’re moving quickly to regionalize revenue growth while simultaneously driving cost out of our business during an aggressive productivity plan.
While we've already made progress against our five strategic actions to regain our momentum we're just beginning 2015 will be a transition year as we rewire our operating model for growth and mix in uncertain global consumer environment.
While the macroeconomic environment remains challenging in the near term we are confident in our ability to return to sustainable growth as the long term dynamics of our industry remain promising.
Our brands and our global system are unparalleled and we are fully dedicated to strengthening our position as the world's leading beverage company.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola’s Media Relations Department if they have any questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I’m joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find Webcast materials in the Investor section of our company Web site at www.coca-colacompany.com that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company Web site.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning’s discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Please look on our Web site for this information.
In addition this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company’s most recent periodic SEC report.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Senior Vice President President of Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments will also be available for our Q&amp;A session.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
First apologizes that for the stat of my voice I have a cold so please bear with me.
I'm going to start with some highlights from our first quarter performance and then review the progress we've made against our 5 strategic actions we laid out last October to reignite growth.
Finally I will touch on our outlook for the remainder of the year before I turn the call over to Cathy.
To take you through more details on the financial results.
Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased to report early momentum in the beginning of 2015 a year of transition for the company.
We delivered promising first quarter results especially in light of the significant macroeconomic volatility in many regions around the world and the productivity and rewiring initiatives we are implementing this year.
For those of you following our Webcast you can see our quarterly performance scorecard on Slide 4.
Our performance was largely driven by the strength of our global brand portfolio and the strong distribution capabilities of our bottling partners as evidence by our continued global value share gains and NARTB sparkling beverages as well as still beverages in the quarter.
While certain markets face significant currency devaluation economic slowdown or political unrest our focus on improving our execution enabled us to deliver overall solid results.
We grew our top line and bottom line due to initially improvements in the underlying business the timing of Easter and six extra days in our fiscal quarter.
Importantly net revenues grew 8% on an organic basis driven by the extra selling days and positive 3% price mix globally while it’s still early in the year we are pleased with the 3% global price mix and the 2% price mix in North America both ahead of full year 2014 results.
This price mix is the result of disciplined implementation of our price back channel strategies which is a key and consistent portion of our long term approach to creating value for consumers customers bottlers and ourselves.
Productivity initiatives [benign] commodity cost and favorable product mix in key markets grew gross and operating margin improvement.
As we continue to invest substantially behind advertising leading to double-digit increase in marketing spend.
The bottom line result was double-digit growth in comparable currency neutral income before tax.
Now turning to the five strategic actions we laid out for this year.
One of our key strategic initiatives is making disciplined brand and growth investments.
As mentioned earlier we increased our media investments double-digits in the quarter as we work towards fully funded brand plan in markets around the world while at the same time enhancing the quality of our advertising.
Great example of this is the new Coca-Cola marketing campaign during the Chinese New Year which helped our China business grow brand Coca-Cola volume 9% despite slowing economic conditions.
As we’ve said previous media investments take about 12 to 24 months to realize their full value.
So while we are seeing initial positive results we even more encouraged by the knowledge that is still early in the process and we have tremendous runway for continued improvement in our top-line growth.
We remain resolutely focused on driving cost out of the business and embedding a culture of productivity into our DNA which is enabling us to fund our brand and growth investments.
This change in culture is reflected in incorporating zero base work processes into all phases of our annual planning cycles.
We remained on track across all spend areas to deliver more than $0.5 billion in savings this year and 3 billion in annualized savings by 2019.
The difficult but necessary changes made during the end of 2014 are now accounted for in our budgets and tied to our objectives and goals.
The initial implementation of our new operating model is on track and the previously announced headcount reductions associated with this change are well underway.
We’re continuing to work through the rewiring of business processes within the entire organization.
So for example we’ve eliminated a layer in many of our functions at the group levels in different geographies and linked our corporate center directly to our business units.
In R&amp;D this means connecting our corporate R&amp;D efforts directly to our global development centers and linking both of these to service our business across -- business units across the world.
So this allows us to scale our efforts in innovation share new developments faster and accelerate development of new products.
In addition we’re also rewiring our marketing organization around consumer clusters to drive speed to drive efficiency and effectiveness.
This will allow us to better leverage learnings from similar markets regardless of the geographic location and improve the quality of our advertising through our networked marketing model.
Great example of this is how we are strategically leveraging the 100th anniversary of our Contour Coca-Cola bottle to drive our business forward through integrating marketing commercial and innovation under one umbrella to reach approximately 140 markets.
This campaign centers of the magic of drinking a coke with the emphasis on the experience as much as the bottle and as such it’s focused on driving profitable immediate consumption packages and purchase transactions.
And as part of this campaign our system is investing in glass bottles all around the world while introducing the next generation Contour PET bottle and expanding the supply of our premium aluminum bottles in key developed markets.
Importantly this is not simply a global campaign rather it’s a new way of networked marketing that has led to the creation of 20 marketing assets that markets can use leverage in more cost effective modular manner.
Some of our markets will leverage the campaign throughout the year while others quarter-by-quarter.
As a result we have significantly been able to reduce our production and development cost per gross rating point allowing more dollars to be focused against the consumer.
We're seeing initial positive results for the marketing that have already launched the campaigns such as South Africa Australia and Latin Center.
Across the entire company our deeper markets segmentation strategy is also starting to yield early results.
Two examples are North America and India here.
In North America we're focused on generating revenue through a greater reliance on price realization increased media investments coupled with our segmented price pack strategies drove revenue growth in our sparking portfolio through a strong 3% price mix and a 1% increase in transactions.
Simply put more consumers are enjoying our products more often and are increasingly choosing smaller packages including our iconic Contour bottle.
Where as in India where our revenue growth strategy is focused on expanding distribution and recruiting new consumers we drove double-digit unit case volume growth in both our sparkling as well as still portfolio.
Turning to our focus on our core business model we continue to make progress on our North America refranchising efforts in the quarter.
First we remain on track with our previously announced territory transfers to existing partners.
During the quarter we transitioned four territories to Coco-Cola consolidated and are on track to transfer additional territories in Kentucky and Tennessee to consolidated and current Coco-Cola client this year.
We are slightly ahead of schedule to close the previously announced transactions with new entrance into our bottling network.
So territory transfers to both Troy Taylor in Central Florida and Reyes Holdings in Chicago are slated to close in the second quarter.
Together the territories pending to transition to these two new partners will represent approximately 5% of U.S.
bottle\can volume.
Finally just this morning we announced the signing of new letters of intent with the existing bottling partners for territories covering more than 5% of bottle\can volume.
In aggregate territories transitioned to date and those covered by definitive agreements or letters of intent represent the little over 15% of total U.S.
bottle\can volume.
Further as we continue to transition territories with are getting better and faster which is why we are confident that our previously stated time line to have two thirds of bottle\can volume distributed by our independent bottling partners by 2017 is very much on track.
Looking outside of North America we closed our joint venture in Coco Cola Amatil Indonesia in early April.
I was in Jakarta earlier this year with the Indonesian bottler to celebrate this new venture.
This investment will help us capture the growth opportunity in one of the largest and most dynamic countries in the world as we enable our system to be even more responsive to consumer and customer needs.
So we are off to a solid start in 2015 and we are on track to deliver against our full year of currency neutral EPS expectation of mid-single digit growth.
Importantly I'm encouraged by the progress we have made and we remain confident that we have the right strategies in place to create sustainable shareholder value.
However there is still much work ahead of us we continue to expect that the benefits from the announce initiatives will take time to fully materialize.
Further we are operating in a very challenging environment the cautious recovery in the U.S.
is offset by our relatively sluggish expansion in Europe and Japan as well as weaknesses in emerging markets notably Brazil and Russia as well as China slowing down.
Therefore we remain cautious in our outlook so we will continue to focus on what we can control and execute against our strategic initiatives to emerge stronger and better positioned to capture growth in the global nonalcoholic beverage industry.
I would now pass the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller who will provide you with a more detailed look at our financial performance as well as update on our outlook on our business for 2015.
Thank you Muhtar.
And good morning everyone.
As I'm going to spend few minutes discussing the quarter and then our outlook for 2015 as Muhtar just stated.
Overall we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and encouraged by some of the early signs of success.
Our positive pricing continues as we focus on driving revenue in the marketplace and our reinvestment in brand Coco Cola is staring to yield results.
Focusing on the quarter organic revenue growth was driven by 5% growth in concentrate shipment and 3 points to positive price mix.
The concentrate shipment growth benefitted from the six extra days in the period.
These extra days will reverse in the fourth quarter so you will see a corresponding impact in that period.
After adjusting for the six extra days in this quarter concentrate shipments lag in many cases primarily due to the timing of shipments in our international markets.
For the full year we expect concentrate shipments to be generally in line with unit cases.
Consolidated price mix in the quarter was driven by positive pricing and product mix initiatives across many of our markets.
In addition we benefited from positive geographic mix as markets where shipments lagged recorded unit cases were in lower revenue per CSE market.
As we move through the year I’d like to remind you of a couple of points.
First we will begin to cycle better underlying pricing and second as we catch up from the timing up of shipments in international markets we will see negative pressure from geographic mix at the consolidated levels.
Therefore while we remain resolutely focused on driving revenue in our market we do expect price mix to moderate from the current level.
Our comparable growth margins improved about 75 basis points on a consolidated basis.
This increase is driven primarily by better margins in North America due to positive pricing and business mix as well as moderately lower commodity cost.
As we think about the remainder of the year we will also expect many of these drivers to moderate as we begin to cycle more difficult comparison.
Therefore our full year outlook on gross margins has not changed from our prior guidance.
Comparable currency neutral operating leverage came in better than anticipated in the quarter primarily due the strong growth in gross profit driven by the facts I just mentioned.
Comparable currency neutral income before tax grew 13%.
The combined impact of structural items and the provision in Venezuela resulted in a three point headwind on income before tax which was consistent with our previous outlook.
Our first quarter comparable EPS was $0.48 which included a six point currency headwind.
On a comparable currency neutral basis our EPS grew 15% in the quarter.
The six point currency headwind was slightly less than our original expectations primarily due to the benefit from foreign exchange gains associated with the euros denominated debt issued during the quarter.
Items impacting comparability in the quarter were primarily related to the early extinguishment of certain long-term debt cost associated with our previously announced $3 billion productivity program and charges related to our Venezuelan operations.
As many of you know the Venezuela government introduced a new floating exchange rate mechanism call SIMADI in mid-February.
We re-measured our bolívar-denominated net monitory asset at the end of the first quarter using the new SIMADI floating exchange rate of approximately 193 bolívar to the dollar and translated our Venezuelan subsidiaries local currency income statement into U.S.
dollars using that same rate.
We generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow up 72% primarily due to the efficient management of working capital the impact of six additional days and the timing of capital expenditure and it’s partially offset by an unfavorable impact from currency exchange rate.
We returned $1.8 billion to shareholder in the form of dividend and net share repurchases during the quarter which is reflective of our commitment to return cash to shareowners.
In 2015 we increased our annual dividend by 8% to $1.32 per share and it’s worth noting that we’ve increased our dividend every year for more than half a country.
Turning to outlook while we are encouraged by some of the early signs of success it is still early in the year and global economic growth remains constrained by challenges in many markets as evidenced in regions like Brazil Russia and China.
Therefore we are maintaining our underlying full year currency neutral growth expectations as previously provided.
However we are updating expected impacts from structural items and currency.
During our last call we said we expected the transaction with Monster Beverage Corporation to close in early Q2.
We now expect closing to happen in later half of the second quarter as the parties are working to satisfy contractual closing considerations.
However distribution of Monster products in the U.S.
has already began transition into the KO system.
Finally we are slightly ahead of schedule on close in the U.S.
territory transfer to Troy Taylor and Reyes Holdings.
We now estimate that the net impact of structural items on full year 2015 results will be a slight headwind our net revenue growth with no material change to our prior outlook on income before tax.
Therefore consistent with what we said in February for the full year 2015 we continue to expect mid-single digit comparable currency neutral EPS growth.
However we do see a slight change in the impact from currency exchange rates.
After considering our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we now expect an approximately six point currency headwind on net revenue and approximate 10 point currency headwind on operating income and approximate seven point headwind on income before tax for the full year 2015.
The currency impact on income before tax remains roughly the same as our previous outlook.
As the foreign exchange gains associated with our euro denominated debt issued this quarter is offset by the effects from translating our bolivar-denominated profit as the SIMADI exchange rate as well as the continued decline in several emerging and developing market currencies.
So when modeling the second quarter there are couple of phasing items you should consider.
The timing of Easter benefitted the first quarter this year while it benefitted the second quarter of last year.
We expect structural items to be roughly neutral impact on net revenue and a 1 point to 2 point headwinds of income before tax.
And then finally we currently expect currency would be an approximate 7 point headwind on net revenue and an approximate 10 point headwind on operating income and a 5 point to 6 point headwind on income before tax in the second quarter as we cycle most favorable rates from the prior year.
The variance between the currency headwind and operating income and net income before tax is primarily due to that foreign exchange gains associated with our euro debt.
In closing we are cautiously optimistic about the progress we see in the business which gives us increased confidence that our strategies and actions of working.
With that said it is still early days in a transition year as we implement significant change in our company and amid a volatile and challenging operating environment.
But we absolutely believe that the Coco Cola company is best position to capture growth in nonalcoholic beverages and to continue to deliver long term value to our shareholders.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
So just I guess as we look at this quarter it just seem like some of the things that you laid out at the beginning of the year that were within your control have tracked inline maybe even a little bit better than expected sounds like the refranchising and North America’s pacing maybe a little faster closing the Monster transaction is taking a little bit longer and it sounds like you are sort of tracking pretty well in terms of cost savings and redeploying or spending more on marketing.
I guess when we think about the factors that are outside of your control which would be I guess some of the macro factors the change in the Venezuela exchange rates how some of the markets are moving and not sure if you have a great sense for maybe what's worse or what's better so if you can maybe just sort of lay out for us versus where you were earlier this year when you initially gave us guidance in kind of what's better and what's worth specially focusing on some of the things that are outside of your control? So Bryan it's Muhtar here.
Good morning again.
So in North America I’ll start with North America.
I would say that the outlook appears to be trending a little positive raising hopes that potential ways growth and lower fuel prices could translate into consumer spending.
In Latin America Mexico's the best way I would say is relatively stable and continues to track closer to the Unites States because they are so closely linked.
Brazil continues to deteriorate faster than we expected I would say that.
Venezuela continues to increase as a concern given to increase -- the growing difficulty on maintaining supply in the market place.
And Argentina just continues to be challenging and Columbia is again as the kind of the star in Latin America in terms of performance and macro conditions.
So in Europe I think there are also some green shoots on the back of [indiscernible] but its early days that just started.
But deflation still remains a concerned this year and overall consumer spending in Europe I would say is still sluggish as it will take time for I think monitory easing to flow to the consumer pockets and translate into increased consumer spending.
And then risk to recover remains a still volatile environment and then off course you got the possible Greece exit issue still lingering on.
In Eurasia and Africa Russia continues to see significant challenges the Russian consumer and we expected it to continue to remain challenging throughout the year this year.
[Sub-Saharan] in Africa is a strong bright spot and we're seeing that in our results and then Middle-East we've got some pockets where it's defined geopolitical environment but overall obviously increased geopolitical risk there.
And then in Asia and Pacific-China continues it’s -- the disposal incomes consumer spending CFE in China continues to decelerate we saw that happening in Q1 versus the stated GDP of 7% Japan remains sluggish I'd say similar to Europe although we are starting to see some green shoots in the economy and finally in Asia-Pacific India continues to be a bright spot I’d say inside the brick in markets the four brick market.
So though that's a sort of walk through in terms of -- and then the commodity environment again talking about what we can control and what we can’t remains fairly benign compared to previous years stable and benign.
And so given that value growth for us is highly correlated to PCE growth and I hope I’ve been able to give you a sort of quick walk through what’s good and what not so good and what’s more stable.
That’s very helpful Muhtar thank you and I didn’t mean to have you talk so long your voice is definitely under some pressure this morning.
Kathy if I can just -- one follow up on the commodity piece the comparisons were little bit better in the first quarter just looking forward is there anything that we should be looking at that could make it maybe more favorable as the year goes on? Like how much of it is locked in I guess and how much of it might move based on commodity movements? Thank you.
As Muhtar just said commodities are for us will be benign this year as we have worked in this quarter [indiscernible] recycling higher prices a little and back half -- in the first half of last year and thinking about something like oil oil doesn’t really impact us.
So for our commodities we’re hedged.
So we basically are not going to see specific benefits there because -- and they are going to be basically benign.
Thank you.
Next question is John Faucher of JP Morgan.
Thank you.
I wanted to follow up on two questions related with the price mix number which is I guess one if we look at the gallon variances you mentioned it skews a little bit more towards high revenue per case.
So can you give us an idea in the quarter in terms of how much of that benefit in geographic concentrate shipments how much we’ll need to take out over the balance of the year? And then going back to some of the comments that you guys made I think back in December about sort of a different global pricing strategy in terms of really trying to find the right balance region-by-region can you talk about the outlook for pricing in Europe it was obviously price mix was flat this quarter but that’s when where it seems like there is some opportunities going forward.
So what sort of the medium to longer term view on pricing in Europe? Thanks.
Okay.
John I’ll take the first part of that question.
So the gallons and the cases definitely when you mix the [adjustment] for days gallons are behind cases and we got real moderate and -- but that will be based on as you just say that is what we see in the first quarter is the high revenue for CSE and so we did benefit from positive geographic mix in our price mix.
That will moderate and we will start to see when that catches up.
More of the geographies that provide a lower revenue per CSE coming through which will then give us the negative geographic mix it’s coming through as well in the balance of the year.
And I think the second part of your question on the outlook of pricing Sandy do you want to talk about it all in the North America price range specifically? Sure Kathy.
Good morning John.
The North America pricing situation is really the continuation of the strategies that we’ve been talking about for the last year and half.
Irial and I talked about this I think six quarters ago that we were going to focus our business on the sustaining strategy of disciplined price combine mix to maximize revenue.
With an emphasis on price as a driver in the U.S.
business and that’s exactly what we’ve been doing and what we continue to plan to do with a lot of discipline and focus.
As you look at the first quarter if you look at each business by themselves we met our pricing objectives in the first quarter.
We saw a little bit faster growth in our fountain business which created a little bit of negative business mix but net-to-net the year started according to plan and we see the outlook as being rational and our strategy remains very consistent.
Ahmet you want to talk about Europe? Thanks Sandy.
Hey John.
Just a couple of comments in general and then Europe we are following exactly the same strategy of managing our product mix and price versus volume around the markets international in fact we are getting some pretty good results in many of our big markets specifically in Europe one must remember that last year we’ve had some fairly aggressive pricing which resulted in our view somewhat of an imbalanced progression of our business where we have lost some market share but get -- got great pricing.
So we were saying before that we would be moderating that somewhat this year so that we have a more balanced growth of volume and revenue.
So what you saw in the first quarter is the result of that sort of moderation but we do believe that we would be achieving reasonable price mix in Europe in the course of this year.
John this is Muhtar I’ll just add one other point which is related to what I already mentioned that we’re reorganizing and we have reorganized our marketing around the different clusters of developed emerging and developing markets.
I think that’s also working beginning to yield some early results and I think our new marketing leadership is very committed and very much part of this new reorganization of our marketing around the clusters and I can say very clearly that marketing is playing an important role in how we are generating enhanced revenue in our business that’s really an important takeaway I think.
Great thank you.
Feel better Muhtar.
Thanks.
I feel good it's just my voice.
Thank you.
Your next question is Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Hi guys.
So I'll give Muhtar voice a break and maybe start with Kathy.
The quarter came in better than expected from a margin perspective clearly versus consensus but with the extra shipping days and Easter shift its kind tough to judge your margin performance.
So I was just hoping you could give us some perspective on where margins and profit came in this quarter versus your original expectations and some of the key puts and takes in the quarter again versus as original expectations.
So the price mix obviously is three points as I just spoke about we did benefit from the positive geographic mix and -- in the first quarter and as we will get concentrate shipments and timing starts to catch up we will have the impact of negative geographic mix which is for us is not surprising that it's kind of normal run rate for several of our geography.
So we did get the price in the quarter and in the benefit and then we had decided that would be the cost and when you adjust for structural and you adjust the currencies cost of goods is really in line with concentrate shipments and then the other issue would then just be commodities and then as we’re said the commodities are basically going to be benign for us and in the quarter we are cycling higher cost from full last year.
So that was a slight benefit and that's for the most part and as I’m looking into the rest of the year commodity is still going to be benign so it’s really basically the pricing that we got this quarter offset by the cost that were better than prior year because we cycled a better cost.
Okay and then when you put everything together would you say from a profit standpoint or margin standpoint where did the quarter come in versus original expectations at the corporate level? So and also would add one of the thing is seeing addition in North America specifically we had better mix which basically was about our food service business.
So for the first quarter in our transition year we are obviously very pleased with our result and I would say that -- I would expect pricing to moderate for the back half of the year and continue with the cost commodity -- the cost of [control] continue to be in line with the concentrate shipment.
So we we're -- basically given the quarter in line with our expectations and we expect to be in line with our full year expectations that we have provided.
Thank you.
Your next is Steve Powers of UBS.
Thanks.
Muhtar feel free to weigh in but I'll also try to give you a break and direct questions to Sandy and Kathy.
So guys on North America the price utilization was solid but was actually a little lower than I at least had expected just based on market data and I know you were lapping some fairly intense retailer promotion so maybe that played a role maybe it was again negative mix from still.
I know you mentioned fountain dynamics Sandy but I was hoping if you could expand on the trends there and whether you think 2% is a representative number for the year? This in term just the way you are charging it? And then on a related note I was wondering if you also dimension for us the profit contribution to this price mix you are getting because clearly if it was all rates Tier rate then it would sort of flow through 100% to profit all as equal.
But given that lot of what we’re seeing is category mix and these are just introduction of new package types.
I'm wondering how to think about that profit contribution.
Should we be assuming 50% as a rule of thumb roughly or are there reasons to be more optimistic or cautious related to extrapolating price mix to profit flow through? Steve the comment I make about overall pricing are to reiterate what I said earlier which is that on a business by business basis our pricing results in the first quarter we're solid you saw in the Nelson very strong price growth some of that was driven by wholesale improvement that we were achieving with our customers some of that was lapping some really aggressive promotional activity that happens in the end of February and early march and some it was our customers making more money in the category so the net effect of it was a really good start to the year in line with our plan.
If you cross our business over into our chilled minute maid business we saw price realization there.
We launched some new items that drove some incremental revenue and then as I mentioned the fountain business was stronger than we expected at the beginning of the year which creates a business mix drag overall.
What I say from a profitability standpoint is that the combination of rate and mix was in line with our expectations but I’d also pointed out that as we get into the second half of the year you are going to see more difficult pricing comparisons and we will continue our strategy of rigorous and disciplined and focused price volume management but will be lapping our sales and we’ll be continuing to do so but against the little bit tougher comparison.
So net-to-net up to the start we’d hope to.
Irial any additional dimension? I think I’m repeating what you said but I’d go back and I’d say this for six calls.
We’re being very disciplined and rational about our pricing and what we’ve achieved in the first quarter is pretty well in line Sandy has mentioned there is some channel mix impacts in there but generally speaking very much in line.
We intend to say disciplined and [indiscernible] ordinarily be boring in terms of how we approach the business.
We wanted to remain disciplined and focused and doing the right things in the business and we believe we are on a good track.
We intend to stand on track and I think as this quarter goes by you’ll see positive momentum in the business.
Can I just add one more thing there that what Irial just said then creates the environment for our small packages to grow and the consumer is moving strongly to small packages and we’re continuing to see low to mid-teens growth in those packages and all of which is supported by the impact of a step up in marketing which gives the whole thing more sustainability as we work through the more challenging comps.
Okay.
Maybe just follow up sort of related to seeing in different angle maybe this is for Kathy.
I noticed you’ve changed the reporting of regional profit to profit before tax so regional operating profits or profit before tax consistent with the incentive changes you made.
North American PBT was up like 100 basis points -- 180 basis points or so but I was wondering if you can comment A; if there was any material benefit from sub-bottling payments in the quarter and B; if OI margin trends would have been sort of -- would have mirrored PBT and then assuming so how much of that 180 basis points improvement was driven by some of the better pricing realization the better productivity commodities that can kind of continue as a run rate versus timing benefits in the quarter related to the Easter and the calendar shifts? So if 180 is representative sort of the underlying OI trends and then what’s the real run rate that we should be thinking about as sort of expecting margin improvement on the year? Thanks.
So the expected margin improvement over the balance of the year as Sandy just said so we’ve got good pricing in the quarter and as Irial said we’re very focused on continuing to be rational in price.
We have higher comps in the back half of the year for pricing that we have to cycle.
So as far as the franchising is concern I wouldn’t expect to see much benefit at this point from the sub-bottling payments and as you know if you look at it from an external perspective we have through structurally adjust those we’ve pulled them out.
We pull out the benefits so that we put it back on an apples-to-apples basis year-over-year.
So there is not a big difference at operating versus PBT in our North American operations at this point.
So the margin expansion that is basically really good pricing as we get really good pricing in the fourth quarter of last year they are very focused on pricing that will continue but are cycling higher prices in the back half of this year.
Thank you.
Next question is Bill Chappell of SunTrust.
I guess two questions I’ll lump them together.
One on diet coke in the U.S.
it did look like most recently the Nelson’s looks like actually a positive number and we haven’t seen that in a while just wanted to see if maybe the trend you feel like you’ve got behind that where we could see some growth going forward at least stabilization.
And then the second question on the refranchising anything you’ve seen thus far I know it’s early where it may be accelerated even further in terms of the bottler network where it’s just -- may be you have more of an update later as we move to the year? Bill on diet coke I would describe diet coke still as a work in progress.
We have done a number of things on the basics of marketing graphics adverting packaging.
We have some very advanced sort of big data driven customer relationship programs going on with consumers who love diet coke and we are seeing some improvement in the year-over-year revenue.
But we’re still very much focused on that as a work in progress and expect to.
But I would say this the team and I and our whole system believes that in fact we’ll return diet coke to grow in the long term but recent improvement that still work in progress.
On refranchising the refranchising is going according to plan.
It is a as we said before a massive project.
We are putting the entire system in the common ERP systems and refranchising the territories one sale center at a time to make sure that the capability that we build continues to grow and that our customers are well served in the process and we’re pleased with the progress We have a plan in place that we expect to meet or beat and we’re always looking for opportunities to accelerate it but not at the expense of really high quality customer servicing capability.
Thank you.
Next question is Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hi guys.
So throughout the press release and your commentary we pleasingly had heard and read about marketing increases so that's a good thing that’s very much on plan.
However we don't really see or hear much reference to cost cutting benefit offsetting or funding some of those asset point the only thing you said was look we’re on track for 500 million of cost savings this year.
But we're not hearing or seeing a lot of that flowing through even offsetting things I'm not saying all the way to the bottom line but at least offsetting from your investment.
So when can we start hearing more about that savings offsetting your investments? Well Ali this is Muhtar.
First if it wasn't for the savings we would not be able to be -- to do what you see us doing in terms of generating net increase marketing generating all the other things that's basically are part of our five point strategy of focusing on revenue focusing on productivity focusing on better and more marketing rewiring the organization for better impact and focusing on our core which is the franchise that we talked about.
So I just sat to you had is not being for the productivity we certainly would not be able to enable our organization to generate the kind of momentum that you see beginning to come back in that's clear there is no question about that.
And so this is not a four or five sequential kind of compartments these are very integrated sort of approach to how we bring more momentum into our business and everything that I mentioned is happening at the same time better more -- better wide organization better marketing marketing that works around clusters more infective marketing linked to social media as well as into a better cost per GRP.
All of that funded by incremental productivity and so I think that's how you need to see our entire sort of different bucket of our strategy coming to life.
So a follow up on that and separate question for Irial just a follow up on than Muhtar if you could is particularly in terms of the headcount reduction and the saving there off.
Should we see that ramping up throughout the year and at risk of being cut off let me turn my second question here on a separate topic is we do keep hearing Germany India Vietnam bottlers and BIG continue to be actually quite well and I always pause whenever I see that and I’ll see that in countries but some of those names including Germany.
But when is the right time to divest those and get them out of hospital ward and what are you looking for to make sure that happens or potential buyers are looking forward at this point to commit to buying them? First I mean I'll just say that I agree with you that they those bottlers are doing really well.
Germany certainly is staring Europe.
Southeast Asian bottlers are doing well particularly Vietnam the big one that we are running and I think it's important to keep in mind for you that Germany was not in the position to be refranchised until after 2012 because the consolidation was still taking place so it's really being ready for the last sort of it feels like 18 months to 24 months.
And it has been the real bright spot in the Europe the last couple of years it’s profitable and we need to ensure that we get the -- find the right home and the right structure and the right value and so I could be clear with you that Germany is not a long term -- strategic long term holding and the right moment will be found.
None of our if you bike BIG operations are in a way long term strategic hold.
So that's what I would say about your question Irial you want to add anything to that.
I guess the only add I’ll give is the three markets you mentioned actually are not in the hospital ward.
To move those clients actually they’re all performing very well now and we've been very transparent about refranchising.
I’ve said this many times in conferences that we would refranchise at the right time Germany we've clearly said is ready to [indiscernible] in the meantime it continues to perform exceptionally well.
We have a fantastic group up of associates and managements in Germany and fell very good about it.
But I’ve also said we expect to get a fair price not get over paid but get fair price for territories because we owe that to our shareholder and we take it from there.
Just to build on what Irial said we are looking for three things.
So in terms of the right partner -- description of the right partner; one proven management team; two a strong financial capabilities and three willing to invest in the business and growing the business.
So those are the three things and then I'm confident that we will reach that goal.
On your -- finally on your question regarding head counts reduction I think you've heard about our previously announced plan and we’re sticking to that plan simply said.
Thank you.
Next question is Ian Shackelton of Nomura.
You announced the deal in China last week and I was just keen to get a little bit more detail of how that fits in.
It’s obviously divided from the structure of what we’ve seen with the more recent deals with Monster or [indiscernible].
Ian its Muhtar.
It fits right into the strategy of what we said is bolt on acquisition where they make sense.
And we will look at them with -- and where we believe that they fit into our portfolio where they actually add value where we can generate value for our bottling partners through that acquisition and it fits right in there.
And that’s I will say about that Ian.
Okay.
Thank you.
But just follow up for Kathy I know it can be quite volatile with equity income this time has almost come to zero is this something specifically in there that’s causing that? Our equity income is impacted by currency.
So we actually have -- don’t pull out all of the currency that’s been impacted because if you think about some of our locations they have -- their geography they have many geographies.
So when we report we take the main currency and transact that into U.S.
dollar that means that there is still often a lot of currency impact in those numbers.
So I would read into it that is a very very difficult currency environment out there at the moment.
Okay.
So this is not a case of it being something one-off in terms of the equity holdings there? No there is nothing one-off down the way of the equity holdings.
Thank you.
Next question is Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Is there any way to sort of strip out what the benefit in the quarter was on the operating profit side from the extra days? So I guess the way I think about it is if you take our unit case sales of one and use that as a surrogate because that doesn’t have the extra days in it and you take pricing of three in terms of pricing and then I would say that did benefit from positive geographic mix that we’ll moderate over the back half of the year.
So I guess I would think of it using this price mix in average sales in unit cases.
Except that there was no fixed cost leverage or anything with the extra days that might help the growth in operating margin? So the days or the operating expenses I would say no there was nothing specific in operating expenses that would help by the six days and then the sales and distribution expenses are impacted by the six days so they kind of watch out I would say that it’s nothing there.
Okay.
Now that’s very helpful.
And then just on BIG I mean the year-over-year margin expansion was awesome I mean massive what’s driving that and how sustainable is it? So again [indiscernible] but then we did benefit from the size of the geographic mix.
So I think the only thing I would say in terms of this it will moderate in the back half of the year as we will get more of a normal run rate of negative geographic mix from concentrate shipment.
And then Sandy talked about the impact of the business mix with the food service business in North America.
So I think those are things that basically will say that that number will moderate over the back half of the year as we are still in a transition year.
Okay great.
And then just lastly very quickly I mean the delay in the Monster transaction I mean -- is there any more color you can give us on why it -- and I think it supposed to close at maybe late 2014 early ’15 and you guys said March now it’s kind of towards the end of the quarter.
Is there still a high probability that’s going to close then? Yes.
So there is no issue there.
It’s was going to close we always expected it to close in the first quarter than basically it’s just the regulatory process that we have to go through that is delaying the close.
We fully anticipate that it will close.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks very much for the time.
Certainty.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Most of my questions are answered.
So just the couple of P&amp;L questions Kathy one just in terms of the structural items impact this year it sounds like a quite negative on revenue now as oppose to the prior call.
So just a little bit of clarification on sort of the puts and takes on the revenue impact.
Sounds like the impacts on bottom line is pretty minimal.
And then on the FX you have the re-measurement gain in Q1 that was about a little bit more than $0.001 is that really what’s the difference in terms of your full year outlook for PBT impact being at the low end of that 7% to 8% that you had pulled out that time? Hi Judy.
So on the structural the structural is impacted by the timing of the Monster transaction and then anytime we accelerate in the refranchising that is also going to impact that number.
So that’s why we gave you different structural guidance.
And then on the re-measurement gain yes that’s basically when we re-measure that euro debt that impacted currency positively and so that is what changed the outlook for currency over the back half of the year.
I would also join in the impact of Venezuela and change using the SIMADI rate going forward.
The timing of the Monster transaction though I mean the deal itself is delayed but you are getting the distribution into your bottling in this quarter so that would be still a positive in terms of revenue benefit.
But is the refranchising pacing really what's striking down in terms of the revenue impact? So the distribution is starting to transition it has not fully transitioned so that transition will take place over the year and so we at various turns and that's not something that's really under our control that's really under Monster’s control as they transition that so we can't -- we put in the estimate of how we think it's growing to transition.
So it's not something that's already into our numbers and that slower -- that's what slowing us.
So it's slower than expected because we expected it to start earlier.
Nice thing.
Okay that's cool.
Alright thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Muhtar Kent for closing remarks.
Thank you Kathy Ahmet Sandy Irial and Tim.
In summary we're seeing initial progress in our plan to reintegrate top line growth.
However we still have much to do and the full benefits from the announced initiatives are going to take time to materialize.
2015 is a transition year as we transform our operating model for sustainable growth amidst a challenging global consumer environment while the macro environment remains challenging in the near term we’re confident in our ability to return to sustainable growth and the long term dynamics of our industry remain promising.
Our clients and our global system are un-parallel we are fully dedicated to strengthening our position as the world's leading beverage company.
As always thank you for your interest.
Thank you for your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you for your participation.
That thus conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find webcast materials in the Investor section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports &amp; Information tab in the Investor section of our company website.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referral to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
In addition this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
Ahmet Bozer Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola North America and Irial Finan Executive Vice President and President of Bottling Investments will also be available for our Q&amp;A session.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
While many markets around the world face macroeconomic challenges our focus on improving our execution enabled us to deliver improved top line results.
Net revenues grew 4% on an organic basis driven by positive price/mix and 3% growth in concentrate shipments as outlined on our second quarter performance scorecard on slide four.
Our top line performance was broad-based with each operating segments delivering positive organic revenue growth demonstrating the strength of our global brand portfolio and the robust distribution capabilities of our bottling partners.
As a result we once again gained global value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in the quarter with gains in both sparkling and still beverages.
This represents the 32nd quarter in a row that we've gained NARTD value share an important metric for us particularly in a tough macroeconomic environment.
Notably the levels of our volume and value share gains are accelerating versus the second quarter of last year.
Unit case volume grew 2% in the quarter cycling 3% in the prior-year.
We've seen an improvement with all operating groups growing despite a shift in Easter holiday sales from the second quarter last year into the first quarter this year as well as challenges in key emerging markets most notably Brazil Russia and India.
During the quarter we continued our strong focus on controlling operating expenses.
Even with a double-digit increase in our media spend we were able to deliver a 50 basis point improvement in our operating margin on a comparable currency-neutral basis and grow our comparable currency-neutral operating income and PBT by 6% and 3% respectively in the quarter.
Finally we generated record cash from operations and grew free cash flow 16% on a year-to-date basis due in part to the six extra days in the first quarter but also due to effective working capital initiatives something Kathy will talk about later in the call.
Last year we took decisive action to reinvigorate our growth and increase profitability.
Halfway through our transition year we're pleased with the progress we're making but recognize that we still have much to do.
We're acting with speed with urgency against each of our five strategic initiatives.
First and foremost our enhanced focus on revenue growth across market is delivering value share gains ahead of volume share gains on a consolidated basis as well as in our International and North America businesses.
Our North America business delivered a very strong quarter with 5% growth in organic revenues and 8% in comparable income before tax.
This performance reflects increased marketing a disciplined approach to managing volume price and mix as well as the shift of July 4 holiday sales and our Share a Coke campaign into the second quarter this year versus the third quarter last year.
Importantly in North America we delivered revenue growth in our sparkling portfolio in the quarter due to further expansion of our pricing strategy resulting in 4% sparkling price/mix.
Our disciplined price/pack strategy has seen wide adoption across all retail channels as we emphasize smaller proprietary packages while also raising prices on traditional packages including 12-ounce cans and two-liter bottles.
While sparkling unit case volume grew 1% transactions increased 2% due to strong growth in the smaller packages which are on trend with consumer preferences such as our mini cans which grew volume double-digits during the quarter.
The second action to reinvigorate growth is to increase our media investments globally to fully fund our brands across our markets around the world while enhancing the quality of our advertising at the same time.
In the markets where we are investing more with better quality we're seeing better performance.
Let me just give you an example of how marketing along with solid execution by our bottling partners is driving top line growth across our emerging developing and developed markets.
Starting with our emerging markets despite a soft macro environment in China we grew brand Coca-Cola volume double-digits.
A record 20 million consumers participated in China's Coca-Cola Break consumer promotion which along with the third edition of the Share a Coke campaign fueled our growth.
Turning to our developing markets; in Argentina we gained both volume and value share and importantly gained value share ahead of volume share for the second quarter in a row due in part to integrated marketing campaigns around Copa América the main International football tournament for national teams in South America.
Finally both the quantity and quality of marketing in North America helped us realize four points of sparkling price/mix resulting in solid revenue performance.
The trends we're seeing in these markets as well as initial results in other markets gives us continued confidence that our stepped-up investments are working.
Further we still have significant opportunity in many other markets where we began increasing media investments towards the end of 2014.
Given the typical 12-month to 24-month time period for these investments to deliver their full return it will be 2016 before we see real results in some of these other regions.
Turning to productivity; we remain focused on fueling our reinvestment through embedding productivity into our DNA.
We're on track across all spend areas to hit key milestones this year and deliver $3 billion in annualized savings by 2019.
One area which we are seeing momentum is supply chain related savings which benefited our gross margin in the quarter.
Year-to-date we've consolidated three distribution centers and closed one plant in North America as well as began the process of installing in-line blow molding equipment.
Further we recently kicked off the next phase of our zero-based work which consists of a launch in our international markets and a second year of this work in corporate as well as North America.
Zero-based work is a mechanism that helps our leaders make very tough choices to free up resources that can be redeployed and reinvested to fund growth.
As we go through this process we're working to ensure that the priorities we are funding to drive growth in our business units are also seamlessly prioritized across our entire system.
The implementation of our new operating model is on track and we have made significant headway on the previously announced head count reductions.
This now includes Europe where we began implementing changes this quarter following the appropriate consultations.
As we begin operating within our new structure we are actively engaging in connecting our global organization and implementing our standard processes.
Finally focusing on our core business model we continue to make progress on our North America refranchising efforts.
During the quarter we transitioned territories representing over 5% of the U.S.
bottle/can volume.
Additionally we announced the signing of new Letters of Intent for territories covering close to another 10% of the U.S.
bottle/can volume.
In aggregate territories transitioned to-date and those covered by definitive agreements or Letters of Intent represent approximately 25% of the total U.S.
bottle/can volume.
We're getting better; we're getting faster which is why we are confident we're going to achieve our previously-stated goal to have approximately two-thirds of U.S.
bottle/can volume distributed by our independent bottlers by the end of 2017.
Our bottling partners are critical to our success.
We held our annual global system meeting in May this year; and I can tell you that the level of engagement among our bottling partners was very high.
They are encouraged by our plans and have committed to support our investments with further enhanced focus on local market execution.
To conclude I would like to address the macro environment given the challenges many CPG companies are encountering today and the fact that approximately 75% of our operating income is generated overseas.
The global economic recovery remains uneven.
Given the continued slowdown of the Chinese economy the prospective U.S.
tightening cycle as the U.S.
prepares to increase interest rates and the ongoing uncertainty surrounding Greece and its place in the Eurozone.
Additionally many emerging markets large and small remain challenged as evidenced by our low single-digit volume declines in both Brazil and Russia this quarter.
While we have the right strategic plans in place to navigate through the volatile operating environment we're not fully immune.
With that said as we pass the midpoint of 2015 we're broadly where we expected to be.
I remain encouraged by our progress to-date but also acknowledge that there's still much work ahead of us.
We're confident in our strategies and execution and remain on track to deliver against our full-year comparable currency-neutral growth expectations.
I'll now hand the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Kathy Waller who will provide you with a more detailed look at our financial performance as well as update on our outlook for 2015.
Thank you Muhtar and good morning everyone.
The second quarter came in broadly as we expected.
Organic revenue growth was driven by 3% growth in concentrate shipment and one point of positive price/mix.
Consolidated price/mix in the quarter was driven by positive pricing and product mix initiatives across many of our markets partially offset by negative geographic mix consistent with the outlook we provided last quarter.
Concentrate shipments outpaced unit cases in the quarter primarily due to the timing of shipments in our Asia Pacific group.
After adjusting for the additional days in the first quarter year-to-date concentrate shipments were generally in line with unit cases on a consolidated basis.
Our comparable gross margin declined on a consolidated basis as positive pricing productivity savings and a slightly lower commodity cost were offset by currency headwinds and structural changes.
Positive comparable currency-neutral operating leverage was driven primarily by the impact of structural items which unfavorably impacted gross margin but was roughly neutral at operating income and income before taxes.
For the quarter comparable currency-neutral operating income grew 6% including a mid single-digit increase in DME.
Below the operating line; on a comparable currency-neutral basis net interest income equity income and other income were lower resulting in 3% growth in comparable currency-neutral income before tax.
Consistent with the outlook we provided on the last call on a comparable basis other income benefited from foreign exchange gains associated with the euro-denominated debt issued during the first quarter.
Our second quarter comparable EPS was $0.63 which included a six point currency headwind.
On a comparable currency-neutral basis our EPS grew 4% in the quarter.
Items impacting comparability in the quarter were primarily related to a net gain recognized in connection with the closing of the transaction with Monster Beverage Corporation.
During the first six months of the year we generated $4 billion in free cash flow up 16% primarily due to the efficient management of working capital and the impact of six additional days partially offset by an unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates.
We returned $3.8 billion to share owners in the form of dividends and net share repurchases during the first six months.
I'd like to take a moment to talk about working capital management which we view as another key focus of productivity as it is incremental to our P&amp;L project and it adds significant value to the company and share owners by targeting cash flow improvements.
In 2013 we initiated a program to better manage our working capital with an initial focus on our trade receivables and payables.
As a result of this program we have improved our cash conversion cycle which resulted in $400 million of incremental cash flow for the first six months of 2015 versus the prior-year.
Turning to outlook halfway through our transition year we are where we expected to be recognizing that economic growth remains challenging in many markets; notably Brazil Russia and China.
For the full-year 2015 our comparable currency-neutral outlook remains unchanged although there are a few adjustments to specific items.
Our outlook for net interest is slightly more favorable offset by a slightly larger impact from structural items at the profit before tax line.
We estimate an increase in the currency impact in the back half of the year based on the latest exchange rates and after considering our hedge position current spot rates and the cycling of our prior-year rates we now expect an approximate six point currency headwind on net revenue 11 point headwind on operating income and a seven point to eight point headwind on income before tax for the full-year 2015.
And we expect net share repurchases for the year to be in the range of $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
In addition there a couple of phasing items you should consider when modeling the third quarter.
Due to the timing of our fiscal quarter end the benefit associated with the July 4 holiday fell in the second quarter this year versus the third quarter last year.
We expect structural items to be a slight headwind on net revenue and a one point to two point headwind on income before tax.
We currently estimate currency will be an approximate seven point headwind on net revenues 13 point headwind on operating income and a 10 point headwind on income before tax in the third quarter as we cycle more favorable rates from the prior-year.
The variance between the currency headwind on operating income and on income before tax is primarily due to the cycling re-measurement losses in the prior-year.
Finally while not a third quarter consideration I wanted to remind you that in 2015 our fourth quarter will have six fewer selling days.
In summary we are seeing initial progress based on our plan to reinvigorate top line growth while recognizing that we continue to operate in a challenging macro environment.
Therefore while currency headwinds are increasing we see no change to our full-year comparable currency-neutral growth expectations.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you ma'am.
The first question on queue is from Mr.
John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I want to talk a little bit about the advertising spending.
There's been some questions – and I've had them myself – in terms of whether you're just sort of fighting a headwind in terms of trying to advertise the category.
So can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing how you're gauging the success that you're having and kind of what we should expect from an advertising spending increase as a percentage of sales as we look out over the next sort of 12 months to 18 months? Thanks.
Good morning John.
It's Muhtar here.
I'll just say a few top line remarks about it and then also ask both Sandy and Ahmet to give some more specific details on their – in specific markets.
I'd say overall pleased with our initial results but as we've previously discussed and as I've just recently said it takes some time anywhere from 12 months to 18 months to realize the full value in terms of a return on those investments.
We've found that disciplined quality marketing investments drive growth better than any other strategy or action.
We're seeing good initial results in markets that have received the incremental media investment and also have improved the quality of marketing in our case and the marketing investments in North America is a great point which is a clear contributing factor in the strong performance in the quarter – continued strong performance in North America and the performance is getting better with 5% growth in organic revenues and 4% price/mix.
That price/mix and that volume and that therefore growth in organic revenue would not have been achieved clearly without the infusion of that marketing and the quality and the quantity.
In China also seeing positive trends strong marketing activation as I mentioned in my remarks.
Sparkling growing at 7% Coke growing at double-digits in the quarter allowing us to gain – continued to gain significant share in that market.
And additionally we're seeing accelerated trends in our value share gains where you compare them against our trends a year ago.
So with that said clear that it will take some time for the full benefit on a quarterly basis as these investments take some time to ramp up also challenging consumer environment and macro environments and so those are really what I would say.
And in terms of our results you see year-to-date our marketing investments are growing and our margin is expanding by 50 basis points.
So I think the key is to be able to achieve both and we are confident that we will continue to see more positive results.
So with that let me turn for some more specifics to Sandy and then to Ahmet for International example.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President &amp; President Coca-Cola North America</span></strong> Thanks Muhtar.
And good morning John.
The core driver of our business across the world over time is the quality and quantity of our advertising and the related execution and activation by our bottlers.
And in the U.S.
over the past 18 months we've vigorously pursued that strategy increasing our advertising spend significantly and you're seeing the payoff in the top line results that Muhtar just went through.
But underneath that a metric that you can watch also is just the price elasticity of our brands and how volume reacts to price over time.
And it's a good metric of the payoff of advertising along with the efforts of our bottlers in the marketplace.
As we look ahead we see advertising as an important proactive item to grow the business but as you start to see in North America over the past few quarters we're now leveraging the P&amp;L so that the infusion of advertising is coming from the accelerated top line growth and expense efficiency across the total business.
So net-net it's part of our ongoing algorithm and an important part of the way we intend to drive growth going forward.
Ahmet? Coca-Cola International</span></strong> Thanks Sandy.
Hey John.
We have a very similar story in Coke International.
The bottlers and our teams have strong conviction about how better and more advertising drives top line.
The examples that Muhtar quoted there's more depth to that.
I would add developed markets such as Germany and Spain to that list.
I would add a developing market such as Mexico to that list.
I would add an emerging market such as Nigeria as a good example.
And there are other examples where we increased media and we improved the quality of that communication revenue results improve.
Having said that the history of this increase is less than a year for most Coke International markets.
I would caution that it is early days; but definitely we're seeing the positive examples of this action.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Steve Powers of UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I guess first could you just maybe I missed it but could you just address the reduction in net buybacks for the year and what lies behind that? Is free cash flow coming in weaker because that would seem surprising just given your working capital comments et cetera? Or is there a competing use for cash that we should be considering? Just a housekeeping question.
And then a kind of a broader question on productivity the update and the report card you provided was certainly helpful but I was wondering if you could maybe quantify what those initiatives translated into in terms of savings in the quarter? And how far along you are admittedly early against that ultimate $3 billion goal? I think that would help just frame where you are in the overarching initiative.
And actually if you could perhaps talk about other initiatives underway and what kinds of achievements we should look for on Q3 or Q4 report cards that would be great as well? Thanks.
Sure Steve.
On the share buybacks; basically we've given the range of $2 billion to $3 billion so we're still in that range.
We've looked at where we were for the first half of the year and then we looked at cash particularly because of the currency getting worse in the back half and just tightened the range.
So basically we're still in that range in that corridor we just tightened the range.
And then on the second question on productivity we have basically stated that we are $500 million for – we are on track.
The working capital has allowed us to basically focus on share repurchase even with the significant currency headwinds so basically the productivity initiatives we – that we are on track.
We didn't give specific initiatives that we were working on for this year; you know about the people initiatives that we had and we said we were going to be on target with the $500 million for this year.
They're still coming from the three areas so we're still actively working on reducing our cost of goods sold and moving DME from more promotional activities into media spend.
So we are basically on track.
I don't know – I can't give you any other specifics other than we are basically on track for the $500 million that we anticipated that we would have for this year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Is it fair to assume that the savings build and that there's more of an impact in the second half versus the first half? Or is it more kind of ratable throughout the year? You know I don't know that I can quantify how they come throughout the year.
Part of it was dependent upon when we started to see movement with some of the people and we've not gotten – for instance Europe has to focus on the working – had to work with the Work Council so their initiatives with people are really just starting – although everybody is aware the movement of people is just starting.
So part of that will be coming out now that they've been able to focus on their moving people initiative but I don't know that I can quantify the how and when it all comes through because we focus on dealing with the work first.
And we deal with the work first and then a lot of the other impact will kind of trail making sure that we deal with – that the organization is appropriately set up for success going forward which included focusing on the global organization and restructuring how we worked with the global organization.
So all I can say is we are on target with everything that we've done.
Just adding to what Kathy mentioned Steve I'd say that also in terms of simplifying our organization wiring our business units closer and more directly to the functional centers in our company that largely has taken place.
We have essentially eliminated a functional layer in the company allowing us to make faster and quicker and more effective decision-making in the company.
That is already largely in place and I think lots of continued work streams going on in COGS that will continue to benefit and help us to deliver more than the $500 million in savings for the year.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Mark Swartzberg of SFI (sic) [Stifel] (29:58) Financial.
Sir your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
It's Stifel Financial.
But good morning everyone.
I guess two questions here; one a region question Muhtar and then more a strategy question.
With Asia Pac at least versus my model the price/mix was disappointing.
It's only a quarter and you highlighted China and I think some product mix issues; but when you think longer-term about price/mix in Asia Pac given the superior growth I think you expect from China what's a sound way to think about that region in the larger Coke system? And then unrelated to that or less related to that when you think about scale and bolt-on M&amp;A can you just update us on your thinking for the larger Coke – how you're thinking about scale M&amp;A and how you're thinking about bolt-on M&amp;A? Yeah.
First Mark good morning.
On the Asia Pac I think it pretty much came in line with what we were expecting and it's related to timing it's related to how you look at it on a year-to-date basis.
And I'll have Ahmed comment on that once I finish.
I'll just say a few things about the second question.
In terms of scale M&amp;A and bolt-on M&amp;A I think you need to think we will be again looking at bolt-on targets that fit our strategic portfolio.
That's the way you should think about our continued interest in any M&amp;A and how we target M&amp;A.
Just the same way as you've seen us look at it in the last three four five years how we look at the acquisitions that we made in terms of Innocent in terms of Honest Tea in terms of ZICO in terms of other bolt-on and then more recently the announcement from China that we had.
So essentially bolt-on acquisitions that complement our current portfolio and that give us an ability to also scale it up from a geographic scale goes up from a geographic point of view just like you saw us launch smartwater in other European markets more recently.
That's a good example of how the scale-up continues and how we've turned smartwater into one of the leading premium waters in the world both here in the United States and now in some other new markets.
Ahmet comments on Asia-Pacific? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Can I just ask one quick one there as a follow-up Muhtar? It sounds like what you're saying there this precludes an interest in scale M&amp;A.
The focus just to be super clear the focus is on bolt-on to the exclusion of scale – and we could debate scale I realize but it sounds like that's the focus.
I won't say it excludes anything but I'm saying our focus would be – I think you should assume that it would continue in that area.
If there's something that – obviously the future none of us know what the future holds we can never be – we're always guided by the past the future as something and there may come some opportunities that we will look at.
But right now what I will say to you is base it on what I've said the past few years being an indication of the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Okay.
Got it.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Coca-Cola International</span></strong> Mark just to add on to the price/mix on Asia Pacific the minus 6% was not a surprise to us.
It was expected and there was a lot of timing between the first and second quarters.
If you look at the first half price/mix for Asia Pacific we're in negative 2% which is very much in line with what has been happening in Asia Pacific due to geographic mix and other channel mix issues.
So no surprises there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Great.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Morning.
So Muhtar clearly very strong 4% pricing in North America.
Can you run through how much of that was mix versus price and then comment on the sustainability of higher pricing as you look out through the back half of the year once you cycle the higher pricing from last year? And longer term how you think about any pricing? Clearly we've seen a big improvement here over the last year looks like it's worked well in terms of limited demand elasticity some more longer term thoughts on pricing in North America? Yeah thanks.
I'd say look I think North America delivered strong second quarter revenue profit value share performance driven by better increased marketing better marketing and a disciplined approach to both volume price and mix management.
Few things; mix management is working in our favor consumer is very much approving the smaller packages.
Smaller packages are growing much faster than larger packages smaller packages have a higher NSR per liter per gallon per case; and therefore – then when price driven by – and the ability to keep the volume where it is and gain the price/mix our historic best in terms of the past quarter performance in the United States.
Why is that happening? More marketing more focus on better marketing as well.
So the rate is coming through mix from transactions and packs coming through that is the general comment I'd make.
And Sandy if you want to provide more color to this? Jr.
- Executive Vice President &amp; President Coca-Cola North America</span></strong> No I absolutely agree with that Dara.
And our strategy is as Irial and I said a year and a half ago we were putting in place a strategy of building strong valuable brands with accelerated quantity and quality of marketing and we were going to take proactive opportunities to get our price in line with the value of the brand and to lead price up in a consistent and strategic way working on the development of packages that consumers want in particular premium packages and the consumer is pulling very clearly to smaller packages so they can enjoy the ice cold refreshing taste of one of our beverages but in a portion size that they want.
The net effect as Muhtar said is that we have a benefit for mix but our strategy as we look forward is to continue to lead.
We see this strategy of disciplined price pack volume management underneath the brand building of strong powerful brand as a long-term strategy and we continue to take action across our system every day to reinforce it to grow our capability and to continue to grow our business in a very balanced and disciplined way.
Okay.
So it sounds like the way you approach pricing in North America going forward you think you'll continue to see progress both from a mix and rate perspective and obviously while we could see a sequential slowdown as you comp over this period you're pretty committed to the efforts longer-term.
Is that fair? Jr.
- Executive Vice President &amp; President Coca-Cola North America</span></strong> Absolutely.
The strategy is very consistent and we continue to be optimistic about our ability to make the levers work because our brands are strong and we're investing in them and because our bottling system is executing very well and we continue to get better.
I think one of the mantras in our team Dara is that we've got the right strategy but we are just beginning to hit our stride from a capability standpoint and we have much more opportunity to improve than we have progress made so far.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question is from Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you so much for taking my question.
I was going to focus on Diet Coke.
While your total sparkling unit case volume growth was clearly impressive Diet Coke continues to be challenged.
And so Sandy could you please update us on what you're seeing in terms of North America? And then Muhtar if you could comment on any other geographies where you're seeing Diet present a challenge? Thank you.
Sure Vivien.
Firstly I'd say the challenge is never taken for granted but the challenge is broadly very much a U.S.
centric one so let me just preface that and then have Sandy comment on what's happening in the United States and also comment – give you some more comments on other diet drinks like Coke Zero performance and so forth.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President &amp; President Coca-Cola North America</span></strong> Sure.
As we've discussed in several of these calls and in our interactions more one-on-one the Diet and frozen parts of the food and beverage industry have been struggling for a number of quarters it's getting into years now as the consumer the U.S.
consumer moves really strongly to fresh.
It's a good dietary change actually for the country but the impact on categories and particularly categories that are appealing to diet-oriented positionings has been pretty negative.
Inside our particular portfolio we have brands growing and have brands struggling Coke Zero as Muhtar mentioned grew in the quarter.
Diet Coke continues to struggle.
Our near-term improvements though we're starting to see the consumer base stabilize.
We have an incredible number of very loyal drinkers in Diet Coke that love Diet Coke and our milestone that we're seeking to achieve soon is to level our revenue to match price and volume such that Diet Coke's revenue gets to flat and then starts to grow again.
As we look ahead what I would tell you about Diet Coke is that we believe strongly in the Diet Coke franchise.
Diet Coke the brand is the number one diet beverage in the United States and it will be for a long time to come.
We also are looking at changes in the category.
Our largest competitor is changing their formula and they'll be launching that in August and that'll create a lot of buzz in the category some of it good as the good science of the safety of non-nutritive sweeteners gets out in the marketplace and is reinforced.
We are looking at multiple programs to not only strengthen Diet Coke but to offer consumers adjacent innovation in the Diet Coke franchise and we're excited about the long-term future.
But as we say around here it's a work in progress and a lot more work to do but we still are very optimistic about the long-term.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Bryan.
Morning.
So just I had a question about geographic mix.
I think you came up earlier that geographic mix was negative in the quarter.
And is there any way you can outline for us if geographic mix also had a negative effect on profit margins or profitability? I know there's a lot of moving parts in the P&amp;L but when you kind of look at it currency-neutral you saw some margin expansion.
My thought is within that margin expansion you actually had some negative geographic mix on margins.
So any help on that would be helpful.
And then I guess related to that as we're modeling out the balance of this year and I guess it goes back to Mark Swartzberg's question about the Pacific region should we continue to model in negative price geographic price/mix into our models for Pacific in the back half of the year? Thank you.
Okay.
Hi Bryan.
Yes on the margin question our margins were negatively impacted by currency and by structural.
Obviously there is always some negative geographic mix that plays into that but if you look at our margins and if you look at Pacific gross margins first of all and if you look at them on a comparable basis we lost some margin; but then if you take out currency and then you take out structural then we were at positive margins again.
And the issue more is about gross margin it's not so much about operating margin.
Then on your second question which was...
Just related to price/mix price/mix in Pacific should we continue to see negative geographic mix there? It is normal in the Pacific to have negative geographic mix just because of the base of the country – Japan and then all of the emerging markets there.
So yeah I would say for the remainder of the year I would anticipate that we would have negative geographic mix in Pacific.
Ahmet do you want to comment on that? Coca-Cola International</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean definitely not in the numbers that you've seen in the second quarter but the general trend of – around a couple of points of (44:11).
However we do continue to aggressively implement our more balanced top line growth in terms of price and volume across the territory and we are aiming to improve on that.
All right.
Thank you.
And if I could just sneak one last one in for Sandy if we're looking at smaller packs the effect of smaller pack sizes in North America and just simply looking at it on transactions I know it's kind of early but is it incremental? So if we were just measuring transactions are the purchases of those smaller packages are they incremental to the base business? Or is it cannibalistic? Thank you.
Yeah.
Before Sandy comments on that Bryan let me just also say that also in many parts of the Pacific since your question was somewhat related to the Pacific and in terms of geographic mix I think sparkling and particularly Bryan Coca-Cola again with things that are happening around advertising and media spend and better quality is getting stronger.
Whether you take Indonesia or whether you take Southeast Asia whether you take China sparkling is getting stronger and momentum on sparkling is getting better.
And therefore I think you're also seeing a positive shift in category mix for us that is somewhat countered by continued geographic mix.
So I think there's a balance there and I think we're happy to see that balance coming through.
I just want to mention that that important this year we see that balance beginning to come through – more favorable balance coming through.
And then Sandy if you want to talk about the smaller packages referenced? Jr.
- Executive Vice President &amp; President Coca-Cola North America</span></strong> Sure.
The growth in North America transactions is healthy and that's coming from a number of things but the small packages clearly are driving a tremendous amount of positive growth.
Some of it is cannibalistic but the cannibalistic nature of it accrues to higher margin; so the mix shift is positive and then you have the incremental transaction growth that's being driven there.
And the primary reason is that the consumers want smaller packages.
That's why they're buying more Cokes.
Our marketing model is about more people enjoying more Cokes more often for a little bit more money and that's what we seek to accomplish in the marketing and execution of our brands.
And what you can see by the mid-teen growth of the smaller packages is they're driving that transaction growth and transaction performance positive so the net effect of it is that it's positive in net-net.
The other comment I'd make is that we have data in some of our retail partnerships that shows that moms in particular like small packs and are returning to the category to use small packs as a way of giving treats to teenagers and others in the household and it's a particularly positive thing because moms can do that with a pack that isn't too big; whereas for many years in the category we marketed packages that were too big that were either wasted or over-consumed.
Our package mix no longer does that and it's one of the reasons why our growth is accelerating.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Nik Modi of RBC Capital.
Sir your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
So I just wanted to go back to the bottler reinvestment question and maybe Muhtar you can give us some perspective on where the bottling match and resourcing has been most significant just so we can get an understanding of kind of where there could be potential leading indicators on that impact on volume growth? Thanks Nik.
Firstly I would say to you as I mentioned in my script in remarks that we had a very successful global system meeting back in May and I've seen much more improved engagement and also commitment by our bottling partners across the board: small large Asia Europe Latin America Eurasia and Africa North America.
So I'd say to you it's broad-based; and I'd say to you that there is a great deal of excitement that is around our plans particularly our reinvestment plan and also great amount of commitment for better execution and more investment on the side of our bottling partners.
So as I look at the pipeline of investment I would say I am much more encouraged today than I was say 12 months to 18 months ago.
And I believe that that's driven by our plans and basically our belief in the future and what is happening is yielding early results and that is driving that engagement.
And Muhtar are we starting to see cooler placements actually hit the market and more feet on the street? Or is this kind of bottler commitments on that they're going to do it at some point in the next quarter or two? No.
We see it this year and we will see it at a trend that continues to increase next year and beyond – certainly over a three-year period – here in the United States in Latin America in Europe in Asia Pacific in Eurasia and Africa.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Last question is from Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
You may proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
A couple of things I wanted to talk about if possible.
One is around top line and one is around asset base.
First on the top line I think you guys have done a pretty good job explaining and playing out the pieces in terms of price/mix which is great.
On the volume side how would you describe the company trajectory right now from a volume growth perspective? So do you think we've seen the bottom in terms of volume growth after a series of kind of plus 1% and now at 2% and some easier comps going forward? So do you think we should be projecting kind of a turning point upward in terms of volume growth for the company going forward? And I'll come back with the asset question in a second.
So Ali the algebra is volume times price is what we generate as revenue and I think it's good that you ask that question and it's one of the important elements of the algebra.
I think we're encouraged by actions where we basically expected to be.
We're cycling 3% and we generated 2% and I think the volatility as I mentioned in Russia on the verge of a recession today from a macro point of view or Brazil where there's still significant challenges in disposable incomes; China disposable income levels haven't improved significantly.
But importantly improving trends on share were an all-time high in many markets value share particularly which is very important and value share is driven again by the actions that we're taking.
So based on your question have you seen the bottom? I'd say we're about where we expected to be and we see that what we're doing is continuing to help keep that equation in place at an improving trend; equation being if the marketing wasn't there the volume wouldn't hold up where it was and the price wouldn't hold up where it was.
See it in that respect – both being propped up by the investments that we're putting into the marketplace and those investments being driven by the zero-based work that we're generating.
Okay.
Very helpful answer.
On the asset side of things if you look at Germany and India and Vietnam (53:12) those continue to do quite well.
Seem like they're improving.
In North America from discussions we've had – this call other calls – it looks like that's getting better too.
You know productivity and profits are actually growing finally.
Do you think there are ways – what are the hurdles given all those improvements for you not to be able to divest or re-franchise those assets more quickly and have a smaller asset base which is a long-term plan even more quickly than you've laid out so far? I think you said it those are continuing to improve.
As they improve they become – there's more that are getting in line for those assets and that's a good place to be.
And I think basically we see those are great markets not just in our hands but in the right hands.
And that's the way we see it.
And I think that we are encouraged by the internal plans we have and I think that's all I can say right now.
We're in a place where let's call it this way the fruit is getting riper.
Okay.
I just hope it's not overripe at some point.
I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
This fruit will never get overripe.
It will be good on the tree and off the tree.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Muhtar Kent for closing remarks.
Thank you Kathy Ahmet Sandy Irial and Tim.
In summary our second quarter results were in line with our expectations and as we enter the second half of our transition year we are where we expected to be.
While there's more work to do.
As I said we remain confident that we have the right plans in place to restore momentum in our global business.
The long-term dynamics of our industry remain promising.
And we absolutely believe that The Coca-Cola Company is best positioned to capture that growth in non-alcoholic beverages and to deliver long-term value to our share owners.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer session of the call.
Participants will be announced by their name and company.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; James Quincey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find webcast materials in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar James and Kathy this morning.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the financial reports and information tab in the Investors section of our company website.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executive during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
Please look on our website for this information.
In addition this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
In order to allow as many people to ask questions as possible we ask that you limit yourself to one question.
If you have multiple questions please re-enter the queue in order to ask additional questions.
Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
12 months ago we announced a five-point strategic plan to reignite our performance.
Since then our company has undergone substantial change while navigating a slowing global macroeconomic environment.
Before handing the call over to James Quincey our recently announced President and Chief Operating Officer to review our third quarter performance results let me recap the decisive actions we've taken over the past year as well as highlight why we believe The Coca-Cola Company is well positioned to continue winning in the vibrant non-alcoholic beverage industry.
First we said we would drive revenue and profit growth with clear portfolio roles across our markets.
We have and will continue to do so.
We segmented our markets to develop long-term revenue growth strategies based on clear volume price investment and profit expectations which were built into our 2015 plans and strategies going forward.
Importantly we revised our annual incentive metrics to include revenue growth and tied them directly to these clear portfolio roles in order to drive the right behavior in each market.
Second we said we would target disciplined brand and growth investments.
Last year we significantly increased our media investments and we're doing so again this year.
Also under the leadership of Marcos de Quinto who was named Chief Marketing Officer at the beginning of this year we've improved the quality of our advertising while rewiring our marketing organization around consumer clusters to drive speed efficiency and effectiveness and we're seeing results with year-to-date value share performance accelerating across several markets.
In addition the incremental marketing is helping to accelerate revenue growth in some of our key markets including North America.
We also made investments in new growth platforms.
We closed a transaction with Monster Beverage Corporation to compete more effectively in the global energy category and just recently our brands launched on the Keurig KOLD system in the home dispensing platform.
In China we have announced plans to expand into plant-based protein drinks through the acquisition of the beverage business of China Green Culiangwang Beverages Holdings that recently received regulatory approval.
And in the United States we invested in and signed a distribution agreement with Suja a high growth organic cold-pressed juice company.
All these are long-term investments that we believe will allow us to add profitable new transactions in the non-alcoholic beverage industry.
Third we said we would drive efficiency through more aggressive productivity.
Our current $3 billion productivity program touches every part of our business and organization from our operating model to cost of goods sold to marketing expenses.
We're driving these savings through a disciplined process that involves our entire leadership team and associates.
And ultimately it's about building a culture that is focused on getting better every single day and challenging every dollar we spend.
We're on track against our overall goals and importantly have implemented a broad set of changes in 2015 that will help us continue progress into 2016 and beyond.
These include the implementation of zero-based work across our entire company as well as our corporate center and operating units a disciplined program management approach to drive cost of goods sold savings in everything from our formulas to our packaging to our day-to-day operations in our plans.
Fourth we said we would streamline and simplify our organization.
To date we've standardized key processes linked our business units with our corporate center and eliminated group functional roles in order to speed up decision making and enhance focus at the local level to drive growth.
Our previously announced head count reductions are substantially completed and we are operating within our new structure.
Importantly we are ahead in terms of scope and timing.
Finally we said we would refocus on our core business model of building the world's greatest beverage brands and leading an unmatched global system.
And over the past year we've made substantial progress in evolving and strengthening our bottling landscape.
Starting in North America so far we have transferred or signed agreements for territories covering over 30% of U.S.
bottle can volume.
And just recently we announced the creation of the National Product Supply System in order to align on a clear path forward for our 21st century manufacturing footprint in the United States.
In Europe we announced the creation of Coca-Cola European partners which will transform the Western European bottling landscape.
And looking outside the developed world we've made critical changes to our bottling system in key emerging markets.
At the end of last year we entered into an agreement to re-architect our African bottling system with the creation of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa which will have the scale resources and efficiencies to fund the investment required to capture the strong long-term growth potential in Africa.
Also during the first quarter of this year we invested in our Indonesian bottler to help our system capture the long-term opportunity in this attractive and large emerging market.
In short our company has undergone a significant amount of streamlining and change these past 12 months.
And while we are encouraged by our progress we know we need to do more which leads me to our most recent change.
As we continue to increase our focus on improving global execution we recently appointed James Quincey to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer.
James has a deep knowledge of the global system and solid existing relationships with both bottlers and customers all around the world.
He's uniquely qualified to accelerate the company's five strategic initiatives for growth in the months and years ahead.
I will now hand the call over to James who will walk you through our quarterly performance.
Thank you Muhtar.
Good morning everyone.
Let me start on this first earnings call by saying that it's a tremendous honor for me to serve as the President and Chief Operating Officer of The Coca-Cola Company.
In my 19 years with the company I've seen our business evolve and grow while remaining strategically focused on doing the right things to drive long-term sustainable growth.
As Muhtar referenced we are resolutely focused on executing against the five strategic initiatives laid out last year.
And a significant part of my role will be ensuring that we deliver.
Now during the quarter we made two important announcements that provide clarity on the future of our distribution and bottling structures in the United States and in Europe.
First in our flagship market we announced the creation of the National Product Supply System or NPSS to strengthen and streamline U.S.
production as part of our effort to refranchise bottling territories in North America.
Our approach embodies the best of both worlds by encompassing a national production system that generates efficiencies and scale for our system in combination with regional production that leverages the expertise and local knowledge of our longstanding bottling partners Coca-Cola Consolidated Coca-Cola United and Swire Coca-Cola USA.
These bottlers will continue to own and operate their own plants and where applicable acquire additional production assets from the company-owned Coca-Cola Refreshments.
This will provide a clear profit incentive to make the local operations as efficient as possible.
However to ensure the benefits of scale remain the NPSS will have a governing board with the power to implement measures to ensure the production assets owned by NPSS bottlers are optimally deployed to produce the lowest cost benefiting the entire system.
This board will focus on making decisions on infrastructure planning innovation planning and optimal sourcing at the national level.
The board will be comprised of representatives from Coca-Cola North America Coca-Cola Refreshments and the three independent bottlers which together currently represent approximately 95% of the U.S.
produced volume.
We believe this structure allows us to leverage our significant system scale with a unique competitive advantage of being able to act locally with speed.
Together with our focus on driving revenue this will result in system margin expansion over the coming years.
So in addition to system-wide benefits this approach has the additional benefit for The Coca-Cola Company in that it accelerates our return to an asset-light model which will result in higher operating margins lower capital spending and invested capital and improved return on invested capital for our company as we transition these production assets.
We also continue to make progress on the refranchising of the U.S.
distribution territories.
Just this morning we announced that we signed non-binding Letters of Intent on additional distribution territories in seven states.
As Muhtar referenced this will bring the total amount of volume in territories transitioned to date all covered by agreements to over 30% of U.S.
bottle can volume.
Also during the quarter we announced the merger of our company-owned German bottling operations with Coca-Cola Iberian Partners and Coca-Cola Enterprises into a new company named Coca-Cola European Partners.
This will transform our Western European bottling landscape and create the world's largest independent Coca-Cola bottler based on revenue.
The creation of a larger unified bottling partner in Western Europe represents an important step in our global systems evolution as we continue to adapt our business model to innovate invest and grow along with the changing demands of the marketplace.
This merger enhances alignment within the Coca-Cola system enabling us to more effectively compete and drive growth across developed European markets.
Importantly the new company will position to deliver world-class execution and customer service by leveraging the best practices of each party to drive sustainable growth in multiple categories.
Now turning to the performance in this quarter well the global economic environment remains challenging.
As the slowdown in the Chinese economy and the lower oil prices are putting pressure on many commodity-dependent economies such as Australia Brazil and Russia while volatility rippling through the Middle East causes further economic uncertainty.
Despite these macroeconomic challenges our five-point plan and our focus on execution and reinvestment drove improved results with both unit case volume and price/mix growing 3% each in the quarter as outlined in our quarterly performance scorecard on slide 11.
Organic revenues grew 3% driven by the previously-mentioned strong price/mix and slight growth in concentrate shipments.
Our top line performance was broad based with five of the six operating segments delivering organic revenue growth.
North America continued its disciplined approach to volume price and mix management and I'm encouraged by the solid progress we've seen in this market over the past two years.
In Europe we drove top-line growth through strong commercial and marketing activities whilst also benefiting from some good weather in much of the region.
We are seeing green shoots in Europe and our business in Central and Southern Europe delivered a particularly strong quarter due to investments in media changes in our price/pack architecture and favorable weather.
In Latin America we delivered double-digit organic revenue growth despite worsening conditions in Brazil.
Our Mexico business unit helped to balance the weakness in Brazil by accelerating unit case volume growth to 4% in the quarter with growth across all the major categories.
In Eurasia and Africa deteriorating conditions in Russia and volatility in the Middle East partially offset the solid performance in the Africa businesses.
Turning finally to the Asia-Pacific group China and India both grew unit case volume mid-single digits in the quarter.
In India this marks a return to growth for our business after a tough second quarter with our volume growth trends improving in each month.
In China our consistent strategy and focus on execution led to continued value and volume share gains in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.
Notably trademark Coca-Cola reached its highest year-to-date share levels since 2011.
In Japan volume did decline driven by poor weather in the quarter as well as a move to focus on price realization by reducing discounting on certain low-value multi-serve packs.
While this may have short-term consequences in volume and share it is more important to improve our pricing in the marketplace.
Finally our Bottling Investments group delivered 3% organic revenue growth led by operations in Germany India and Vietnam.
As a result we once again gained global value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in the quarter with gains in both sparkling and still beverages worldwide.
In summary our third quarter performance marks another positive step towards achieving our goal of accelerating top line growth with the company delivering both solid pricing and unit case volume growth.
We are confident in our strategies and execution and remain on track to deliver against expectations for this year.
I will now hand over to Kathy who will provide you a more detailed look at our financial performance as well as our outlook on our business for the rest of 2015.
Thank you James and good morning everyone.
Organic revenue growth was driven by three points of positive price/mix.
Consolidated price/mix in the quarter was driven by positive pricing and product mix initiatives across many of our key markets and benefited from positive geographic mix due to the strong volume growth in our Bottling Investments group.
After adjusting for the additional days in the first quarter year-to-date concentrate shipments were slightly behind unit cases primarily due to the timing of shipments in the prior year in our Asia-Pacific and Eurasia and Africa groups.
For the full year we continue to expect concentrate shipments to be generally in line with unit cases.
Our comparable currency neutral growth margin expanded on a consolidated basis due to positive pricing productivity savings and a slightly lower commodity cost partially offset by structural changes.
Positive comparable currency neutral operating leverage was driven primarily by cycling the timing of marketing expenses (19:00) the impact of which we expect to reverse in the fourth quarter as well as by a continued focus on controlling our operating costs.
For the quarter comparable currency neutral operating income grew 8%.
Below the operating line net interest income was lower versus prior year resulting in 7% growth in comparable currency neutral income before tax which included a one point structural headwind.
Our third quarter comparable EPS was $0.51 which included a 12-point currency headwind.
On a comparable currency neutral basis our EPS grew 8% in the quarter.
Items impacting comparability in the quarter were primarily related to non-cash charges related to the announced refranchising of territories in North America.
During the first nine months of the year we generated $6.7 billion in free cash flow up 6% primarily due to the efficient management of working capital and the impact of six additional days partially offset by an unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates the impact from refranchising territories in North America and the brand transfer agreement with Monster Beverage Corporation.
Our focus on improving working capital contributed an incremental $600 million of cash flow for the first nine months of 2015 versus the prior year.
We returned $5.6 billion to shareowners in the form of dividends and net share repurchases during the first nine months.
Turning to outlook we are broadly in line with our expectations for the first nine months of the year.
With one quarter remaining we expect our full year comparable currency neutral EPS to grow 5% in line with our previous expectations.
However due to the strength of the U.S.
dollar we now expect the currency impact to be slightly more unfavorable.
After considering our hedge positions current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates we now expect an approximate seven-point currency headwind on net revenue 11-point headwind on operating income and an eight-point headwind on income before tax for the full year 2015.
Therefore we expect our comparable EPS to decline 3% for the year.
Our full year outlook implies that our fourth quarter comparable currency neutral EPS will decline mid- to high-single digits.
There are a couple of points to consider when modeling the fourth quarter.
As we communicated at the beginning of the year our fourth quarter will have six fewer selling days this year.
Due to the timing of expenses last year combined with the increase in media investments this year we expect DME to increase substantially in the fourth quarter.
We expect structural items to be a slight headwind on net revenue and a two-point headwind on both gross profit and income before tax.
We currently estimate currency will be a six-point headwind on net revenues a 12-point headwind on operating income and a 10-point headwind on income before tax in the fourth quarter as we cycle more favorable rates from the prior year.
As a reminder these impacts are based on current spot rates and given the volatile currency environment these amounts are subject to change.
In summary as you heard from Muhtar and James our financial performance is consistent with what we discussed early in the year and we continue to execute as we outlined.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
Our first question is from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
You may proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Dara.
So Muhtar it's been a year since you announced the plans to focus on greater pricing in developed markets as well as boost marketing spend starting in 2015.
And I was hoping you could just take a step back and give us a more detailed review of your progress on those fronts.
How much top-line growth is responding to those efforts relative to your expectations both in terms of the market share payback from the higher marketing as well as the demand elasticity from higher pricing? And then just in terms of the quarter on an adjusted basis ex the concentrate lag it looks like underlying revenue results are returning to your long-term goals with 3% unit case result and 3% price/mix.
So at this point do you feel comfortable you can generally meet those long-term top line growth goals going forward ex any timing issues or with emerging markets macros still decelerating and perhaps easy comps from this quarter it's a bit too early to call for that? Thanks.
Yeah Dara thanks for the question.
What I would say in general overall is yes we're pleased with the quarter and the progress we're making but lots of more work to do.
This is a transition year.
When we talked to you about 12 months ago we outlined to you that with the changes we're going to make that our goal is to get to mid-single digit currency neutral revenue growth for the comparable revenue growth for the company overall.
And I think if you look at our progress to date for the first three quarters of the year we're at sort of the bottom end of that range the mid-single digit if you look at where we are in revenue in terms of currency neutral comparable and what we have posted in this past quarter in the third quarter you would see us if you take those numbers that you mentioned in terms of volume growth of 3% and price/mix of 3% at the top end of that range.
So in essence we're pleased with the progress that we – what all the five-point strategy and executing it diligently over the last nine months and even starting at the end of last year has brought us to where we are.
And so we feel that we've always said that marketing has a lag the incremental marketing there's a lag in terms of when we input it and the results that we're getting but we see that the plan is working.
And we certainly see that we're taking a very strategic approach in terms of marketing spend versus optimal levels.
Consistent quality investment in media continues to be one of the strongest drivers of our business enabling us to generate those – that revenue.
We look at each market.
How many weeks of consumer engagement there is the goal over time is to apply the right pressure in the right way to each of our brands and each of the segments that you mentioned which is developed developing and emerging.
And the system alignment in our bottling system is matching our alignments with investments – I'm sorry with capabilities execution output development cooler placement et cetera.
So we're pleased with what we see there.
And of course all of this being said we have a volatile macroeconomic environment which obviously is not getting any better anytime soon.
We realize that.
The global growth for 2015 is projected to be below last year and even having said that the disposable income are even lagging the growth rates that are projected.
So yeah.
But in general that's how I would frame your question and both James and I and Kathy believe that the incremental and better marketing is certainly giving us the results in terms of the top line currency neutral comparable top line growth.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steve Powers of UBS.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I actually want to talk a little bit more about the National Product Supply System that James detailed.
And I guess specifically maybe Muhtar or James could you talk more about the governance process there and the makeup of the managing board? As I understand it there are five voting members CCR Coke North America and then the three bottlers Consolidated United and Swire.
And I guess I'm curious as to how you ensure that tough decisions get made in that structure and implemented in that structure.
Do you need unanimous consents? Is it majority rules? And if there isn't unanimous consent or support for a given measure what gives the NPSG the power to enforce successful implementation? Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
What we said again at the beginning of this journey back three years four years ago is that we said that we have an intention to create a system in the United States that can benefit from the local empowerment in each of the communities and the markets that have built our business so successful over the last 130 years.
The franchise system the alignment that brings the value and trust between us and our bottling partners.
But at the same time create the mechanisms so to speak the processes flexible processes in the marketplace whether it be information systems whether it be the customer management system so that we can speak with one voice to customers coast-to-coast in the United States and the National Product Supply System.
All of those negotiations with our expanding bottlers took some time to achieve.
They're all achieved.
That's why we're progressing rapidly with our refranchising program which is working very well because when we have those processes in place we can refranchise with confidence and speed and have the business continue to generate the results and the growth that we are seeing in revenue particularly in the United States of America.
And the United States non-alcoholic beverage business is healthy.
It is growing in revenues and dollars and cents and that's the really important element that I want to leave with you.
But just to add more color and flavor to the National Product Supply System question that you had in terms of the governance model I'll ask James to comment further and give you more insights.
James? Yeah I think just specifically on governance it's not going to be around unanimity.
It's going to be based on the driving of the business case.
Everyone's committed to doing what is economically the most rational answer for the system.
Again this is when it comes to the national issues.
It's not necessarily the management of each local plant which will remain the job of each of the participating bottlers or CCNA.
Steve does that address your question? Yes sorry I was on mute.
No thank you.
That does help.
But I guess James just to follow up.
If there is friction on a given issue right if there's debate about what is in the best sort of economic interest of the system what's the tiebreaker? How does the majority view get pushed through? We're not laying out the precise mechanic but I can tell you that there's not going to be a full consensus required for every decision.
It's going to be a large majority and if they support the economic case then that's what's going to move forward.
So we're not creating a system that can become blocked.
We're creating a system that's going to (31:48) focus on the best economics of the system in North America and there are mechanisms for that to go forward.
Great.
There are mechanisms in place to break a tie.
Correct.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
You may proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I guess I was hoping to get a little bit more color in your performance in Europe this quarter.
So 4% volume growth certainly an improvement there.
You called out some of the factors the green shoots in Europe.
You've got the favorable weather conditions as well as the marketing spending step-up.
So number one can you just talk about a little bit more behind what really drove the volume improvement? How sustainable those improvements are in terms of volume.
And then if you think about price/mix performance in Europe kind of flattish performance in a more developed market.
So how should we think about that number? How much was that geographic mix and are you seeing actual price realization in some of the markets understanding that obviously it's a tough deflationary market there.
Yeah Judy thanks.
This is Muhtar.
Good morning.
Unit cases as you said did grow 4% in the quarter in Europe.
They were cycling a minus 5% from prior year and sparkling was up as well as stills growing faster than sparkling in Western Europe.
And then our concentrate sales did trail also the unit cases in Western Europe as it did for the whole company.
And we were pleased with the results.
And certainly again some early results from the marketing but more to come and I'll ask James to add more color to that.
James? Yeah thanks Muhtar.
As Muhtar referenced we were cycling a pretty poor quarter from last year.
So I think it was a favorable comparison and we had strong results from very favorable weather in the Southern and the Central part of Europe.
So I wouldn't read too much into the one quarter.
I think if you look at the longer term trends you can see that we're getting some volume growth in the year-to-date where the price/mix is bouncing around flat.
I think it's important to recognize two things as it comes to price/mix in the case of Europe.
One is the general deflationary nature of the European market.
Retail pricing is 0% to 1% at best in general.
And then secondly it's worth remembering that the starting point of pricing in Europe is in comparison to the U.S.
higher.
So the opportunity is to drive price/mix on a sustained long-term basis.
In a sense we've already captured some of that in Europe and we will be chasing that in the U.S.
So I don't think we'll see the same sort of price/mix over time in Europe given our starting point.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Sir your line is open.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Kathy just a question for you.
And just thinking about some of the I guess the macro drivers of the P&amp;L as we move into the fourth quarter and maybe beyond into 2016.
Other income this quarter was an expense.
Is that at all related to the euro bond gain that you had in the first half and how we think about lapping that next year? FX the negative effect on operating income is greater in the fourth quarter than it was in the third quarter.
So should we think about FX carrying into 2016? And then in terms of structural change I guess with Germany now essentially being contributed to the partnership or the new entity in Europe that will be a structural change for next year but just anything we should be thinking about in terms of changes in the structural change component of modeling I guess going into the fourth quarter and maybe into next year would be helpful.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thank you Bryan.
So for foreign exchange for next year remember we had said that for our hard currencies we are hedged and so our real exposure is around our emerging currencies.
Now that being said we do have to cycle that euro debt bond offering which impacted the first quarter and second quarter of this year and for the full year it was about three points benefit to us.
So we do have to cycle that next year on top of just a change in the rates and probably a more difficult currency environment going forward.
So we will give more color on currency in February when we give our full year results for 2016 (sic) [2015] (36:52) but our issue is really going to be around the emerging markets where we've – it's not cost effective to hedge more than about a quarter at a time.
And then in terms of the structural impact yes Germany will be a structural impact next year.
Obviously we continue with the North America refranchising so that will still have a significant impact in North America and there may be some slight impacts from whenever the Africa transaction closes but the majority of it will be the Germany transaction and the North America refranchising.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just with the Africa JV do we still expect that that will close before the end of the year or is there any update on timing there? Yeah.
Bryan this is Muhtar.
What I would say is that it's in the regulatory approval process and that's all I would say right now and then we expect it to close some time over the next three months to four months.
That's what I would say.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
You may proceed.
Hey guys.
Just a few things.
One is I was hoping you could set people just more at ease around the closure of the gap in unit case volume to concentrate sales.
I'm getting a lot of questions there.
And if that – look if you're real comfortable with that and if that's the case that that closes for all the regions in the world it certainly does look like there's an inflection point on top line.
But are we now comfortable enough to also start talking a little bit about perhaps a crossover point or an inflection point in the productivity savings being higher than reinvestment rate as well so margins can also look like they're expanding? It looks like you had flat operating margins here including the FX effects there.
But that's better than it's been in a little while as well.
So can we clarify and give us a sense on the margin inflection potential as well? Sure.
So the unit cases to concentrate shipment they're really impacted by Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
And if you look at Latin America on a year-to-date basis they're absolutely in line and with Asia-Pacific on a year-to-date basis we expect them to be generally in line.
So there's really no story there in terms of that gap.
When you – and moving on to productivity so productivity initiatives yeah obviously we are seeing some benefit from productivity.
In our margins there is an impact in our margins from basically the structural changes.
So if you were to exclude structural changes gross margins and operating margins would be higher and you would see margin expansion.
And when you look at the third quarter when you look at the leverage – so we are getting some productivity but we also have an impact from timing of the DME from – basically from prior year that's impacting that timing from this year.
That by the way turns around in the fourth quarter.
So I think there are a lot of puts and takes going on around productivity.
You are seeing some productivity coming through.
We are continuing to reinvest behind our brands though but our margin expansion is masked right now by currency and structural so if you pull those two things out you'd see very good margin expansion.
And I would just add one point Ali.
I think what we saw in this past quarter in terms of operating margin expansion on a currency neutral comparable basis of about 100 basis points we were pleased with that expansion.
Now the key is to do everything we can to continue and ensure that we execute fully on the five strategic points going forward so that we can continue to improve our trajectory.
Okay okay.
That's helpful.
Just from a structural perspective as you mentioned it one of the big changes obviously in the marketplace is the ABI-SAB deal which is agreed upon I guess.
Can you talk a little bit about any of the deal implications to you structurally in that context? For instance would you let them produce both for you and the blue system? Is that something you can shed a little bit of light on as now it's an agreed upon deal it sounds like? Yeah Ali we will not comment on any specific matters related to our customers bottlers or any M&amp;A matters so I'll just leave it at that.
Okay.
Thanks anyway.
Our next question is from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks.
Want to go back as sort of a little bit of a follow-up to Steve's question.
If I look at slide 10 in the handouts if I look at North America you guys are fragmenting that sort of last piece to market that last piece of the route-to-market and then also to some extent the manufacturing piece.
Yet you're telling us on the flip side as we look at Europe as you create this sort of wall that goes across Europe of all one big bottler the consolidation is something that seems to be the right thing for Europe.
So can you talk a little bit about why fragmenting North America yet consolidating Europe at the same time those are both the right strategies when they – I don't want to say they're diametrically opposed but at least they appear to be somewhat in conflict with each other.
Thank you.
John this is Muhtar.
Actually they're not in conflict at all.
They're basically very complementary to our strategy which is to ensure that we have the local touch and we have also the scale and we have the processes to meet customer demands and customer partnerships.
And in the United States we've actually not – you mentioned the word fragmented.
We have a national customer management system.
We have a national production system.
We have a national information system that is basically all with their own governance models and they're very fluid and very flexible to suit the needs of the business today.
And then at the same time every piece of the United States that has those elements really have enough size for scale.
And then we have the much smaller the smaller distributor bottling system that also the smaller guys are doing a great job in growing the business for us.
And then in Europe basically what we have is the customer landscape in Europe is much much more concentrated in Western Europe where just a handful of customers account for a very large portion of the total future consumption the retail business in Europe.
And therefore when you look at what we have created in Western Europe it basically suits our future needs in terms of working proactively with our customer partners and also it gives the scale and also it give the local touch in each of the markets.
So from that perspective just like what we have done in Japan just like what we have done in South Africa and large markets I'm talking about it basically very much aligns to our strategy in how you think about what we're doing in the marketplace.
Okay.
And if I can just ask a follow-up.
I guess you talked about local touch with the smaller local bottlers in the U.S.
and then you also talked about local touch in Europe.
And I guess again just to play devil's advocate here aren't you moving away from the local – I realize you're going to try and keep some of the local pieces through the new bottling entity but it seems to me that's moving less local.
Where? In Europe? (45:20) So I guess it sounds like you're trying to have it both ways and I guess I'm just not following why one is so dramatically better than the other.
Is it just simply sort of the smaller account piece on the U.S.
side that creates the difference here? Well the customer base in the United States and Western Europe is very very different in terms of how it's structured.
And so we follow the customer the needs of the customer what matters.
We follow the scale.
We follow the necessity for speed.
And we feel that the model that is being created in Western Europe will serve us very well for the next decade and beyond and the same thing goes for the United States.
It is proving that it is serving us very well in terms of getting us the scale in terms of getting us the costs in production and cost of goods sold.
But at the same time retaining the local touch and retaining the local element that is really important in our business.
Both of those are valid for Europe and for Western Europe and for Japan and for South Africa and for the United States or wherever else you're seeing us create a better bottling system.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
You may proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Muhtar I wanted to circle back on the comment that you made about the health of the U.S.
LRB category.
I mean clearly that's apparent on the still side of the business.
But as I look at the syndicated data for carbonated beverages in the United States it does look like the category is softening a bit and I think your revenues were down three out of the last four months.
So I was hoping you could comment on the evolution of the U.S.
CSD side and the demand elasticities and how they're evolving please.
Thank you.
Well I think based on what we are seeing is we're able to generate revenue growth both in the sparkling category very much so as well as in the still side.
And therefore that's what my comment referred to.
This is not just one quarter.
This is multiple quarters.
And at the same time inside that LRB category that is showing very good resilience in terms of both price elasticity price discipline approach with customers generating value for our customers both on the sparkling side as well as in large and small customers in the still side we are also seeing that we gain – and this is the 22nd consecutive quarter of us gaining value share in the marketplace in North America.
And then the mix is really working for us in terms of generating the marketing where the North American market is the first market where we've started employing incremental marketing better marketing is generating also positive results for us in terms of the revenue growth purely from sparkling as well as from the still side of the business.
And James do you want to add any color to that? Yeah.
I mean if you take a look at how we're driving the sparkling business you can look at the transaction packages which represent about 15% of the volume and they're growing still again this quarter into double digits.
So we're very pleased with the marketing and the OBPC approach is driving positive revenue growth for sparkling on a consistent basis.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you very much.
I was wondering if I could ask you about the recent vote in Mexico.
It looks like there's a proposal to reduce the tax on soda by about half on products with five grams of sugar or less per 100 milliliters.
So first I was just wondering what you thought about the prospects of that if you could give us any clarity on what percentage of your portfolio that would cover? And then if we just think about it from a high level and maybe James you could give us some color in a number of these markets.
If we look at the Mexican soda tax as a template for the rest of the world does this suggest any tempering of how some of the regulatory authorities are looking at the category broadly speaking? Thank you.
So of course we need to wait and see whether the recent vote produces the act of (50:01) law by the end of the process.
It's only gone through one of the stages.
So we'll see where that ends up.
Obviously we are in favor of reductions in discriminatory taxes.
I think as we look out on how that has impacted the world and how that's being viewed and it will be used as a case study around the world the data we have so far is the impact of the tax was to bring down about six calories from the Mexican diet by the end of the process.
So we're conscious that obesity is a crisis.
We know we need to play a role.
We don't think that this is the silver bullet that anyone was looking for and we think that much more work needs to be done if indeed a solution is to be brought to bear on the whole obesity crisis of which over-consumption of anything including soft drinks would be a contributor and a part of the problem.
So we'll see where this tax ends up.
Clearly taxing diets and lights doesn't seem to be the right way forward and therefore if this measure goes through I think it would be positive.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And the last question is from Nik Modi of RBC.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Thanks.
Just a quick question on Asia.
Perhaps you can provide a little bit of context.
It looks like that business may not be performing as well as you would like broadly speaking.
Is this a portfolio issue? I mean can you just talk a little bit about what's going on across that region so we can just think about that as we go into 2016? Yeah Nik I'll just say very very broadly at a high level.
We're pleased with our performance in China.
Obviously a lot of noise around China these days but we have – as mentioned earlier in the script we have an all-time high share for brand Coke in China.
And we're growing in China and we're gaining share in China and we're investing in China and the same goes for India two of the very large markets in Asia certainly pleased with the results there.
We had some weather-related issues in the quarter before but we're coming back and the business is really coming back and performing much better in India.
And so overall I think – and then in Japan we're seeing some green shoots in terms of disposable incomes.
We're very early still in terms – to call it any color but overall I'd say – and then obviously back in south – Australasia the economy was very much related to commodities and it has suffered and we're seeing the macro spillover from that.
But I would say overall up from this past quarter.
We're happy with the results in the big economies and then realizing – recognizing that we have got more work to do.
And that's how I would leave it.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Muhtar Kent for closing remarks.
Thank you James Kathy and Tim.
So in summary our company has undergone a substantial amount of change over the past 10 months to 12 months and our third quarter results demonstrate continued progress against our five strategic initiatives.
The long-term dynamics of our industry remain promising and we absolutely believe that The Coca-Cola Company and the Coca-Cola system is best positioned to capture that growth in non-alcoholic beverages and to deliver long-term value to our shareowners.
As always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
And that concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call.
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed.
Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.
I would now like to introduce Tim Leveridge Vice President and Investor Relations Officer.
Mr.
Leveridge you may begin.
Officer of Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for being with us today.
I'm joined by: Muhtar Kent our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; James Quincey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Kathy Waller our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to inform you that you can find webcast materials in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com that support the prepared remarks by Muhtar James and Kathy this morning.
I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our company website.
These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to results as reported under generally accepted accounting principals.
Please look on our website for this information.
In addition this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report.
Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.
In order to allow as many people to ask questions as possible we ask you to limit yourself to one question.
Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.
Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
In late 2014 we announced a clear five point plan to reinvigorate our growth and increase profitability.
We committed to transform the company to one that is focused on our core value creation model of building strong brands enhancing customer relationships and leading our franchise system with a goal of becoming a leaner higher margin higher return and more focused company.
And I'm pleased to say that we made significant progress against our initiatives including the very important announcement this morning about accelerating our refranchising.
Importantly our progress against these initiatives is leading to improving performance even in a very challenging macro environment.
Let's start with our key announcements today.
One of our five strategic initiatives has been to refocus on our core business of building brands and leading our system of bottling partners.
As part of this we've continued to advance our global refranchising initiatives.
With the success of our efforts in Europe and North America we have the confidence to accelerate our plans.
In North America we learned a significant amount from our initial territory transition efforts.
Including the additional territories announced this morning to-date we have signed agreements or transferred territories representing over 40% of U.S.
bottle can volume.
At the same time the performance of our North America businesses continue to improve throughout this process delivering the highest revenue growth in three years while we executed this important transformation.
Based on our success and the knowledge we gained through the transitions we're now ready to accelerate the pace.
Today we announced we are committed to refranchising 100% of our bottling territories including Coke cold-fill production by the end of 2017.
This is a critical step for our entire system in North America.
It will not be easy and will require the hard work and dedicated efforts of our entire team and close collaboration with our bottling partners.
So we have a clear plan in place and are confident that this is essential for our future success.
Moving on to China our bottling system in this dynamic country has evolved to the point where refranchising is the next logical step.
Today we are the bottler for roughly one-third of our dynamic China business.
We have now entered into a non-binding letter of intent to refranchise our bottling operations to our existing partners COFCO and Swire.
These bottlers have been excellent partners demonstrating their willingness and capability to grow the China business for the long-term.
Therefore we believe they are ready to take on additional territory and look forward to strengthening our partnerships with them.
These new announcements combined with the pending creation of Coca-Cola European Partners and Coca-Cola Beverages Africa as well as our investment in our Indonesian bottler will strengthen our global bottling system for the coming decades.
To put it in perspective adjusting for these transactions the percent of our 2015 volume sold through company-owned bottlers would have decreased from 18% to 3%.
None of this would have been possible without the continuous investment and hard work of our Bottling Investments Group.
When we are finished our Bottling Investments Group will be smaller more focused but will remain a critical strategic growth enabler for our company.
Taking a step back I'm proud of the progress we've made over the past 18 months and look forward to completing the next critical phase of our journey.
When we complete these refranchising efforts by the end of 2017 we will look very different than we do today as we return to a company that is focused on our core strength of building strong sustainable and valuable brands creating value for our customers and partners and continuing to drive system capabilities.
As a result we will become less capital intensive with significantly higher margins and returns which will enable our core strengths even further.
Another of our five strategic initiatives is targeting disciplined brand and growth investments.
While much of this discussion has been about increasing the quantity of our marketing we know that improving the quality of our marketing is just as critical for success.
That is why I am particularly pleased by Coca-Cola's new global marketing campaign.
Actually this is not just a new global campaign but a new business approach.
While we've added a lot of choices to the trademark Coca-Cola portfolio over the years drinks with calories without calories with caffeine or without this is our first campaign ever to cover all the refreshing brands within our Coca-Cola trademark portfolio.
As the most valuable beverage brand in the world people continue to love our brand but we recognize consumers want to enjoy Coca-Cola in different ways.
Regardless of which one they want they want a Coca-Cola brand with great taste and uplifting refreshment.
Our One Brand strategy transitions us to a single iconic brand campaign that celebrates both the product as well as the brand.
Importantly this campaign gets back to our roots featuring the product at the heart of the creative and celebrating the experience and simple pleasures of drinking a Coca-Cola any Coca-Cola.
This campaign is also an example of how we are transforming the way we work to be faster with reduced costs.
This campaign was built end-to-end from the start from consumer through to shopper digital and music and was developed to support the entire globe.
This helped us reduce the number of agencies and better leverages production costs as well.
This discipline combined with the inspiration of our talented marketing teams is what will continue to fuel our growth.
While trademark Coca-Cola is the oxygen for our company we have the leading portfolio of strong valuable brands across multiple categories.
And this portfolio continues to grow with 20 $1 billion brands and a strong pipeline of growing regional brands.
This year we gained global value share across the core sparkling packaged water juice and juice drinks energy drinks and ready-to-drink tea categories.
In addition to internal innovation we look externally for bolt-on opportunities to expand our still beverage portfolio and capabilities.
Just last week we announced an investment in Chi Limited Nigeria's leading value-added dairy and juice company.
This adds to our other recent investments including Monster Suja and fairlife expanding our presence in the energy juice and value-added dairy categories.
Last quarter we also announced our intention to sell our shares in conjunction with JAB Holdings' pending acquisition of Keurig Green Mountain.
We will recover our initial investment when that transaction closes while continuing to drive our Keurig KOLD opportunity in the marketplace.
In summary we recognize we still have much work to do but we have a clear plan clear path to transform the company becoming more focused on our core business of building brands and leading our system of bottling partners thereby giving us even greater confidence to achieve our long-term growth targets.
I will now hand the call over to our Chief Operating Officer James Quincey who will provide you with a more detailed look at our operating performance in 2015.
Thank you Muhtar.
Good morning everyone.
So as Muhtar mentioned let me spend a few minutes reviewing our 2015 operational performance before handing the call over to Kathy.
In 2015 we delivered our plan for our transition year despite challenging macroeconomic environments.
We gained value share in NARTD sparkling and still beverages an important metric for us as we manage the business especially during periods of slower economic growth and volatility.
For the full year organic growth of revenues was 4% and importantly we delivered 2% global price/mix.
This was stronger price realization than we have generated in several years reflecting our segmented revenue growth management strategies and enabled by our increased investments in media.
Unit case volume grew 2% for the year.
We're pleased with this volume performance given our focus on improving price realization during a time when consumer spending was pressured in many markets.
And I'm also pleased to confirm that globally we captured over $600 million in productivity ahead of the target we set for ourselves at the beginning of the year.
So structurally-adjusted comparable currency neutral income before tax grew 6% for the year as we benefited from the productivity efforts and favorable commodities although partially offset by our increased media investments.
During the year we saw a slowing environment in China and challenges in several key emerging markets including Brazil and Russia.
This was offset by solid performance in North America and many of our Latin American markets.
North America itself delivered its strongest performance in three years delivering 4% organic revenue growth with three points of price realization supported by our increased marketing effort and a disciplined approach to volume price and mix management.
Consistent with this strategic focus our driving of consumption small packages could be seen across North America.
We grew purchase transactions 3% outpacing the 1% unit case volume growth as consumers increasingly reached for the mini cans the smaller PET the 8-ounce glass bottles as well as our premium aluminum bottles all of which drive more value per occasion than our traditional packages.
Hopefully many of you also saw an example of this strategic focus on Sunday night during the Super Bowl when we aired our latest commercial focusing exclusively on the mini can package.
Our performance in 2015 gives us confidence that our strategies are working and that our underlying performance will be within our long-term targets in 2016.
However let me be clear.
The global economy remains challenged and is not improving rapidly.
We do see slightly better GDP growth rates for 2016 as compared to 2015.
But to be fair forecasts continue to be revised downwards and there is still much uncertainty.
Notable are Brazil and Russia continuing to deteriorate while China's growth rate does also slow putting pressure across many of the emerging and developing markets.
Now while helpful to consumers the lower price of oil is also causing volatility in the Middle East and other oil-driven export economies with further implications for those nations.
So given the erratic nature of the global economy we will continue to focus on what we can control in order to deliver our plan.
We will continue to build on the fundamentals of our strategy for long-term success while delivering solid revenue growth and strong underlying operating margin expansion through the expected continued management of our portfolio price/mix and productivity efforts.
With that I'm going to hand off to Kathy who will give you additional details on North American productivity programs and walk through the 2016 outlook.
Thank you James and good morning everyone.
In the interest of time this morning I intend to cover just three topics: North America refranchising; our updated productivity targets; and our outlook for 2016.
Let me start with our refranchising efforts in North America.
As we accelerate our refranchisings we are returning to our core business of brand building driving customer value and leading the system.
At the same time the refranchising causes a lot of complexity in our North America P&amp;L.
Therefore in order for management to view the underlying performance of our core business in North America separately we made the decision to adjust our operating segments such that starting in 2016 CCR will be reported within our Bottling Investments Group.
Going forward the vast majority of any structural impacts to our business will now be reported within a single operating segment.
We believe this will also be helpful to our investors for the same reason of assessing the continued underlying performance of our core business.
We understand that the accelerated refranchising coupled with the shift in reporting segments will likely result in a lot of modeling questions.
So we will provide revised operating segment financial information reflecting this change before the end of the quarter.
With regards to modeling we are providing detailed structural guidance for 2016 the majority of which is related to the North America refranchising efforts.
The remainder of the territories will transfer by the end of 2017 but the P&amp;L impact will depend on the timing of transfers.
We will share more with you at the appropriate time on the expected impact in 2017.
As we transition territories we are committed to eliminating the temporary residual costs we have referenced in the past as quickly as possible and we anticipate the majority of these will be removed in 2017.
With that said there could be a portion of residual costs remaining in 2018 as we wind down the final support of these operations but this amount would be relatively small and would be eliminated by the end of 2018.
Our productivity program is also evolving due to the accelerated refranchising.
Approximately half of our $3 billion productivity program was expected to come from supply chain savings.
And a significant portion of those savings were expected to come from North America due to the size and finished goods nature of the business.
Now that we are accelerating our refranchising we will no longer be able to capture a portion of the identified supply chain savings prior to divestiture.
However we have built a disciplined process and capabilities that have allowed us to exceed our goals to-date and identify incremental opportunities within cost of goods sold operating expenses and marketing to replace the supply chain savings being refranchised thus enabling us to maintain our $3 billion target.
As we've communicated to you in the past we said we would continue to look at every layer of spending as we move through the productivity work and we have done just that.
Coupled with the success we've seen so far we have the confidence to effectively raise our level of targeted savings across our remaining spend base.
With the incremental savings identified in our core business and the fact that our addressable cost base will substantially reduce post-2017 it should be even more evident that our $3 billion program represents a sizable opportunity.
We look forward to providing further details at CAGNY next week.
Turning to outlook despite challenging macro environments in many key markets around the world our focus on revenue and disciplined brand investments continues to improve our top-line growth.
Also we are seeing productivity flow through our P&amp;L.
While much of this was obscured by currency and structural changes we saw solid underlying margin expansion last year even while we grew marketing expenses at a faster rate than gross profits.
For those reasons in 2016 we expect to be back on our long-term growth algorithm prior to any structural changes which are primarily driven by our accelerated pace of refranchising.
Organic revenue is expected to grow 4% to 5% in line with our long-term target as our marketing investments continue to pay off.
Given the current macro environment and lapping better comps in 2015 we believe this is a solid target.
We expect the commodity environment to be benign but considering that we hedge our exposure to many commodities we may not see the full benefit you would expect when looking at today's spot prices.
Given the general weak macroeconomic environment and the associated pressure on top-line growth we are focused on capturing more than $600 million of productivity in order to deliver our profit targets.
We will do this even as we continue to increase the investments in media behind our brands and step up R&amp;D investments in 2016.
Finally we anticipate interest cost to increase in 2016 due to higher interest rates as well as our decision to shift some of our debt from commercial paper to longer-term maturities that carry slightly higher interest rates.
After considering all of these factors we expect comparable currency neutral income before tax structurally-adjusted to grow 6% to 8% in 2016 in line with our long-term targets as strong operating profit growth is partially offset by net interest expense.
As Muhtar mentioned earlier there will be significant structural impacts to our business as we accelerate our refranchising efforts in North America complete the mergers of Coca-Cola European Partners and Coca-Cola Beverages Africa and cycle a half-year impact from the Monster Beverage transaction which closed in mid-2015.
We currently expect both Coca-Cola European Partners and Coca-Cola Beverages Africa to close during the second quarter.
Taken together we expect the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be a four to five point headwind to net revenue.
Because of the nature of the structural changes we also anticipate that the impact will be slightly higher on cost of goods sold and SG&amp;A.
We expect the benefit to equity income from Monster Coca-Cola Beverages Africa and Coca-Cola European Partners to partially offset that impact at operating income resulting in a three to four point negative structural impact to income before tax.
Our underlying effective tax rate is expected to remain at 22.5% for 2016.
Finally we expect approximately $2 billion to $2.5 billion in net share repurchases for 2016.
We therefore expect comparable currency neutral EPS growth of 4% to 6% inclusive of the three to four point structural headwind to income before tax.
As you well know many of the world's currencies have continued to depreciate versus the U.S.
dollar.
Since we operate in over 200 markets we are not immune to this effect.
In addition we will be cycling the Euro debt re-measurement gain we recorded in Other Income during the first two quarters of 2015.
Based on current spot rates hedging activity and what we are cycling we expect a four point headwind to net revenue and a nine point headwind to income before tax.
However the currency headwind to operating income will be lower as we cycle the gain I just mentioned.
In terms of coverage we are fully hedged on the euro yen and sterling for 2016.
We also have near-term coverage in place across several other major currencies.
Finally we expect to spend $2.5 billion to $3 billion on CapEx as we continue to maintain our facilities in advance of transitioning territories and production assets.
By the end of 2017 our capital needs will decrease significantly as we refranchise healthy businesses in North America and China.
As you model the first quarter please remember that due to our reporting calendar cycle there will be one less day in the first quarter of 2016 as compared to 2015.
Based on current spot rates hedging activity and what we are cycling we expect that currency will be a five point headwind on net revenues and a 12 point headwind on income before tax in the first quarter of 2016.
We expect the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be a slight headwind on net revenue and structural items to be a two point headwind on income before tax.
In summary our financial performance for 2015 was slightly better than our expectations and we executed our five point plan effectively.
And we are already working diligently to deliver our commitments for 2016.
We continue to focus on our core capabilities of building brands driving customer value and leading the system so that when we complete our refranchising we will be a lower risk higher return business with even greater confidence to achieve our long-term growth targets.
We look forward to sharing more with you at CAGNY.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Morning.
Morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm great.
How are you? Great.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey can you just talk about why now is the right time to pull all this stuff forward on the refranchising front because obviously there's like a ton of macro volatility? I know there was some challenges as you kind of wanted to standardize the IT platform and then even some of the key account stuff which I thought had a little bit of a longer tail.
So any thoughts you have on that would be appreciated.
Yeah.
Thanks Bill.
Ever since I took over as CEO I have always emphasized the importance of our franchise model.
And one of my clear priorities was to accelerate growth in our biggest profit pool the United States.
And we bought the business of CCE U.S.
operations with that goal in mind.
So when you think about it now we've been able to prove to ourselves that we can accelerate the business in North America.
We've had the best year in 2015 and you saw the results from the quarter.
And these results show that our strategic focus on driving consumption of smaller package sizes is continuing to pay off.
Transactions are growing.
Price/mix is healthy.
And so we're bringing those two things together both the goal of going back returning to our core model which we've always emphasized even the first time we announced the purchase of CCE's U.S.
operations we said there will be a role for partnerships going forward as soon as we can put some things right.
We have got the three legs of the stool in place the customer governance production governance and the IT platforms.
And so we feel very confident.
We have proven to ourselves that we can do it and we feel very confident that this is the time.
The new model is established.
Bottler performance is improving.
We have a new structure to last us the next number of decades.
And we're putting our bottlers in the right hands.
As Kathy said the bottlers are very healthy and thanks to the great leadership and capability of our Bottling Investments Group.
And so yes we are now going to the core and this is the time.
And we feel very confident that we can do the two things together accelerate momentum and bring the franchising to a bookend that really we feel is going to be very beneficial both to our company our shareowners as well as to leading to better customer service and better value creation on the bottler side.
So it's really a win-win from all those perspectives Bill.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Morning Bonnie.
Morning.
Morning Bonnie.
I was hoping you could actually give us a concrete example that gave you the confidence to make the decision to accelerate your refranchising plans.
And then while your margin should certainly expand and your returns will increase could you help frame for us the incremental dilution expected from the new system? And then finally I'd like to hear what your plans are for the cash you'll receive from the planned sale of the 39 production facilities which I guess I assume should raise a fair amount of cash considering I think the earlier sales the nine sites had a book value of $280 million if I'm not mistaken.
Sure Bonnie.
I'll say a few words and then I'll let Kathy and James comment too.
But I'll say that certainly we have the proof points in the United States.
Our Chinese business for example also has great momentum gaining share and growing in that difficult environment if you look at the quarter if you look at the full year results.
And the capability that has been put into place in all our expanding bottlers everywhere is really giving us the confidence.
And also just look at the momentum of the business.
Our revenue growth was a priority.
We got it up to the 4% to 5% range.
And the increased marketing is working clearly and now better marketing was even going to enhance that.
And at the same time we feel that every time the territory has transitioned it's actually continued to do well continued to gain share continued to drive momentum continued to drive incremental transactions.
And from that any of the territories in the last four five quarters that have been transitioned we have seen without exception that to be holding true.
And if you look at all these bottlers that we're refranchising look at the results.
Look at the performance of our German bottler.
It really has the greatest momentum in the continent of Europe right now.
So all of these bottlers are going in to a system to a structure to an architecture to a geography that will continue to do even better when you combine it and when you create the synergies with the combination.
And so we feel confident.
And then what took a little while to get right was the governance model around production in the United States the governance model around the IT platform the governance model around the customer service.
All of those are in place and working well.
So I'll just hand over to James to add some flavor to that in more details and then Kathy can comment also on your questions related to the financial aspect of cash.
Yeah Bonnie let me just add one thought to what Muhtar has laid out there on we've been fixing and building.
And we're finding the right partners.
I mean a simple way of looking at why it's working is there's just more people coming to the table saying we want to be partners.
Our existing partners want more territories.
And new people who aren't in the system want to get into the system.
So they're seeing that we've fixed the business and we've built momentum.
And so there's a lot of heightened interest in being part of a growing Coke system particularly in North America.
Okay.
Then Bonnie I think the next part of your question you asked about the incremental dilution and the impact of that.
I can help you with the impact of that.
So for 2016 we gave you the impact.
And then for 2017 we are doing several things because we know you all have lots of questions about 2017.
So we are going to provide revised operating segment financial information later in the quarter.
And then at CAGNY we're going to give you a look at kind of what to anticipate the business will look like after everything is finished in 2018 because the actual dilution kind of depends really on the timing of these transactions.
Okay.
And so the best way we can give you some indication of that is really to kind of help you understand what our business will look like when everything is said and done in 2018 and beyond which is what we're going to try to do at CAGNY.
So I would ask you just hold off on that and more to come on that.
And then on the question about cash so the cash will basically go into basically our capital structure and be part of just our normal mix.
And at this point no board level decisions have been made so we anticipate that these proceeds will be used to strengthen our balance sheet.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
So Muhtar you've posted a couple quarters in a row with volume growth back up in the 3% range along with solid pricing despite the difficult emerging markets macro environment we're seeing.
So I just wanted to get an update on your market share performance.
Obviously you're gaining share but have you seen a relative change in terms of incremental market share performance and what level of payback you're getting on the higher marketing? And as you look out to 2016 4% to 5% organic sales growth is a fairly tight range.
So how much visibility do you think you have around that? Could macros pose a risk to that guidance particularly given you're assuming higher GDP growth? Thanks.
Thanks Dara.
As I mentioned we're pleased with our market share performance value share gains across the world and I'll let James highlight some details on that.
Yeah.
Thanks Muhtar.
So Dara let me just give you a quick run round the world in terms of share.
I mean firstly on an overall global basis perhaps consistent with our strong fourth quarter we gained a little more share in the fourth quarter than we had in the whole year so a better performance at the tail end.
And in terms of how that played out across the world you see again in line with the volume performance strong results in North America.
We gained share in sparkling.
We gained share in stills and we gained share overall in the quarter and in the year so good momentum in North America coming through in share.
In Europe we're gaining share in sparkling and in stills.
Given our different starting points that's netting out to kind of being flat overall but we got a strong growth in Europe as we build our stills business.
Latin America this is a long-term track record of success so small gains there building on a long history of building a great position.
Eurasia despite some of the volatility in that part of the world we gained share in both sparkling and stills and overall pretty strong momentum there in terms of share.
And then in Asia Pacific we've focused more on re-staging and re-energizing the sparkling business where we're gaining share.
We lost a little bit in stills and overall flat.
So I think wherever you look round the world we're largely flat to gaining.
And so and consistent with our volume growth which is broad-based and across the world we're also largely winning across the world.
So in terms of – which one do you want me to do marketing payback? So I think what you're seeing is there is results from the marketing payback.
I mean our organic revenue growth in 2015 was better than 2014.
We're guiding for a good number that's ahead of 2015 in 2016.
So we see the marketing payout beginning to build the momentum globally.
And I think if you doubled-down on that one and look under that North America was one of the first places we started with the incremental marketing and that's self-evidently building momentum.
So we see the underlying business results coming through in revenue very much tied to where the extra media money is going.
And then in terms of macro outlook and risk to top-line I think we feel that we got underlying structural momentum in the business.
Now when I said we're planning on the macros slightly better in 2016 and I really do mean slightly and I wouldn't be surprised if that was the same growth rate in 2015 but we think we have the right portfolio and the right optionality to be able to deliver our financial numbers in that environment.
Okay great.
And then if I could just slip a detail question in Kathy I was hoping you could give us clarity on the impact to 2017 earnings from FX if spot rates stay at this level given the hedging in 2016 and how much hedging you have in place for 2017 on some of the hard currencies.
Okay.
So for 2017 Dara we are also fully hedged on our major currencies.
So obviously the emerging market currencies are the ones where you can't really hedge more than a quarter or so out.
So obviously we have done nothing on the emerging market currencies.
But on the hard currencies we are hedged at rates slightly worse than in 2016.
So there will be a slight impact but I wouldn't think it would be terribly significant.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Two questions here; first off it's a little tough with all the refranchising of the bottlers to get a handle in terms of what's truly going on on the gross margin.
So can you try and strip some of the impact out from the refranchising and give us an idea what the underlying gross margin is doing? And then Kathy going back to your points on the balance sheet can you just sort of talk about what you're seeing out there that's causing you to maybe term-out some of the longer term debt? Is it just sort of the short market volatility or is this something where you would expect to maybe go with a more conservative balance sheet approach on a go-forward basis? Thanks.
Sure John.
So the gross margins in fourth quarter impacted by the six fewer days and the currency and then the structural impact.
So if you take all of that out basically we had good gross margin expansion in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
What was the second question? So the balance sheet basically as we've got so much cash that's outside of the United States we are taking a little bit more of a conservative approach with our balance sheet.
And it was just more prudent to manage with the longer-term maturities than with short-term maturities.
So we still have a robust portfolio of commercial paper.
So we're just kind of balancing that out differently.
Okay and if I can ask one quick follow-up on that in terms of the interest income line and some of the cash balances overseas any change in that approach or is this mostly going to be on the interest expense line? Yeah.
Basically it's going to be on the interest expense line.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think we're expecting much more interest expense given the rate changes.
But also the longer-term maturities are also causing more interest expense.
Got it.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brett Cooper of Consumer Edge Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
One of your stated strategies was to improve the balance of price/mix and volume in your developed markets and we've clearly seen that in the U.S.
But I was hoping you could walk around the world and offer us what you're seeing in other developed markets provide us with your prospects and confidence for improving price/mix in other developed markets around the world going forward.
Thanks.
Yeah Brett.
I think if you look at our overall for the whole year and as well as for the quarter our price/mix globally you can see that that has improved.
As was mentioned part of the reason for that is we're beginning to see the results of the increased marketing play through as well as our packaging strategies and mix management.
And coupled with that the value share gains which is even more pleasing given that we're able to get healthy pricing in our business and in our markets around the world but I'll let James comment in terms of Europe and Japan and what is being seen in some of the other developed markets in addition to the United States okay? Yeah thanks Muhtar.
I think firstly it's important to remember starting with Europe that our price positioning in Europe we have over time substantially taken a lot of rate and mix in Europe such that we are more premium priced compared to our competitors than we are in North America so less runway in that sense.
Now having said that we continue to focus on smaller packages more premium offerings in terms of the brand portfolio such that despite what is a pretty deflationary retail environment in a number of Western European markets we're getting price/mix in Europe both in the quarter and for the full year.
So I think going out one should not expect the same sort of levels the U.S.
has been able to develop especially given the macro environment in Europe at the moment.
In terms of Japan we're very focused on rebuilding our ability to get positive price/mix in Japan.
We've recently been able to get some again very focused on leveraging both packaging options and the brand portfolio to reshape it to allow us to drive positive mix.
Again I don't think you will see in Japan the same sorts of levels as the U.S.
as much as anything to do with the deflationary pressures in Japan.
But we are starting to see chances of a better pricing environment in Japan.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Morning Bryan.
Morning.
Just wanted to get a couple of points of color on the productivity program.
I guess Kathy to start you're keeping the original $3 billion plan but a portion of the COGS opportunity is now going to go off with the refranchising so could you just give us some sort of idea of just how big that is how much you had to sort of make up in terms of keeping the $3 billion where it is? Certainly.
So we will lose about $500 million of productivity primarily out of cost of goods sold.
But again we committed to making up that lost amount and we're going to make it up between cost of goods sold operating expenses and DME.
Okay.
And so net this productivity plan is actually now a little bit bigger than it originally would have been.
Is that just a function of as you're doing more you're finding more savings or was the refranchising kind of motivating you to look for more savings just trying to get a sense if there's more momentum building on the productivity program itself? Well we always said we were going to continue to look for additional productivity opportunities and so we have done just that.
And we've learned a lot about our costs as we have continued the programs the ZBW as well as other cost optimization programs.
So basically we've looked end-to-end and we saw additional opportunity and we're going to take it.
Okay.
And then just last one of that $500 million that essentially goes off in refranchising will that actually still be realized within the franchise system? So does the Coke system itself still see the $500 million of savings or is that kind of lost because it needed to be sort of integrated with Coke to get it? No it will be captured by the system.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We've been hoping that they can find additional areas Bryan to even increase that going forward.
Part of the whole plan around the production governance is also to ensure that we can actually lever and pull more synergies out of our production system in the entire sort of template of North America production.
So yes the answer is a definite yes.
Okay.
So from a systems perspective this is truly incremental savings.
It's just a matter of where we're seeing it.
That's right.
Correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
I wanted to come back to the Asia Pacific region.
I have two questions.
First is on price/mix and then second on China specifically.
So price/mix in the quarter was down 9% and margins were down pretty significantly.
James I think you talked about re-staging the sparkling business and I know there's been some negative geographic mix so a little bit more color there would be helpful.
And then the second piece on China 1% volume growth but you were cycling a pretty soft compare of down 1% last year.
Maybe you could just elaborate a bit on what you're seeing in that market and your expectation here over the next 12 months.
Thanks.
Sure.
A let me start with the price/mix in Asia Pacific.
I think the most important thing to note here is because the different geographies in the Asia Pacific group have some quite different pricing and concentrate shipments can be lumpy you do get some erratic price/mix numbers on a quarterly basis.
And that's exactly what you're seeing in the fourth quarter in Asia Pacific.
So there were more shipments to somewhere like India than Japan.
You can actually see the flip side of this in the Eurasia group where we got very strong price/mix in the fourth quarter which was the flip side.
We had more shipments to places like South Africa than the Middle East.
So this is all about country mix.
I think it's important for particularly those two groups Asia Pacific and Eurasia to look at some longer-term four quarter trend line on price/mix given the very impactful country mix issue and the lumpiness of concentrate shipments.
So that's the key thing there.
And then in terms of China clearly not as much as we would have liked to have grown in China in the first quarter; I think that the environment in China is pretty clearly having slowed down but we think we had a strong momentum over the last couple of years coming back into China.
We're looking to do better in 2016 but we don't actually provide country-based forecasts.
What I would say however is we're continuing to do very strongly in terms of share particularly in sparkling as we've re-energized that business.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Powers from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
So actually a relatively quick set of questions for each of you if I could; first Muhtar on refranchising and the decision to retain hot-fill and juice assets is that an indefinite plan or is that subject to further review? And similarly thinking about China and the rest of the world should we be thinking differently about your plans in India in terms of future refranchising in that market as well? And then Kathy the 4% to 5% organic growth you're calling out for next year can you just give us maybe a rough sense of volume versus price within that and how much if any you expect to spend incrementally on A&amp;P in order to achieve what amounts to underlying acceleration? And then finally James sorry for all the questions we debated this a little while back and I'm just wondering if you've got additional thoughts in terms of your longer-term growth how much you expect the portfolio to lean on stills versus sparkling and do you think you have the right balance of demand building support against each of that in order to achieve your long-term goals? Thank you.
Yeah Steve so related to juice and hot-fill and stills stills continues to perform very well in North America for us and the template for stills production is completely different in terms of how it is configured to cold-fill.
And juice is an integrated business.
So given those aspects we intend that for the future to not change the structure related to both hot-fill as well as to juice and our foodservice business.
All will remain as integrated in that respect and they're doing very well.
And we feel that they add value to the overall structure of North America and they're an important strategic part of how we move forward and continue to increase momentum in North America.
India look you saw that number.
Given all these changes we're announcing basically if you brought it back to 2015 the total bottling assets that we would have under our management and on our balance sheet would actually go down from 18% of the total mix globally to about 3%.
So yes in India there are opportunities in other parts of the world remaining but it's a very small template based on where we are and we'll look at opportunities.
As James said earlier one of the litmus tests – I've always said one of the great sort of litmus tests for the health of the Coca-Cola business is the desire of investors and our franchise partners to have more territory.
That's at an all-time high and we expect that to remain high.
And therefore there may be other opportunities in the remaining geographies but I can't comment on that any further right now.
And then I'll pass it over to James to take you through the longer-term question on portfolio stills versus sparkling and then Kathy the question on 4% 5% organic growth volume versus price.
So James? Sure.
Look I think our aspiration is to have both of them growing both bottling and stills and that's what we achieved in the fourth quarter and in the full year of 2015.
Now I think in a total portfolio sense much as in the same way has happened over the last decade or so we've gone from about 10% of the portfolio being stills to roughly 25% of the portfolio being stills.
I think mathematically the stills will grow as a percent of the total portfolio.
And I would note as Muhtar commented earlier I think we need to break out the stills and not just look at them as one thing but look at them in terms of their individual categories.
And we gained share in packaged water.
We gained share in juice and juice drinks.
We gained share in energy and we gained share in ready-to-drink tea.
So we think we can do well in each of the categories that represent non-alcoholic ready-to-drink.
And in particular we can still grow sparkling.
And that growth of sparkling into the future is not just in aggregate but I think over the long-term we'll see increased growth of low no and reduced calorie variants.
I know that's not the case yet in the North America but globally in our international business those drinks outgrow the regular drinks within sparkling and they're fueling our growth so broad-based growth.
Okay.
Then on your question of 4% to 5% organic growth volume versus price/mix so we expect that to be balanced volume versus the price.
So as you know we have the strategy where we now focused more on net revenues.
And as we are segmenting our markets and we're focused on price realization so we do anticipate that strategy will continue and that will achieve a balance between both volume and price.
As advertising and promotions in 2014 we announced this program.
We said $800 million to $1 billion that we would invest.
We are still going to invest continue to invest behind our brands on that program although we're also going to start investing in R&amp;D.
So basically we're still on our program that we announced back in 2014 so you will continue to see investment in marketing kind of slightly above gross profits.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
So on refranchisement obviously good news that it's going faster but I still have a few questions on this.
One is I get the discussion about holding onto juice.
I'm not quite there on hot-fill so if you can elaborate on that that would be helpful.
Trying to get a better sense secondarily about when you think you will actually be able to grow out of the dilution.
So there's clearly dilution right now and then 2016 3% to 4% and then probably 2017 but at what point will you be able to grow out of that dilution given kind of better margin top-line growth et cetera? And then kind of the core question is that you mentioned your goal was by buying the North America Bottling that you would be able to accelerate momentum for sales and profitability.
And I agree you've kind of done that going to smaller pack sizes increasing prices closing some plants increasing media spend improving IT but I guess I'm still confused why you had to buy one consolidated bottler I guess in North America to do a lot of those changes.
I mean why do you have to spend billions of dollars to push these changes through? Was there not a more efficient for shareholders way to do it? And I guess in that context how do you give investors confidence? Because I get this question a lot how do you give investors confidence that five 10 years down the line you won't have to buy these bottlers back again in North America? Well Ali let me start with the last.
First when we announced the acquisition of CCE it was essentially kind of a 25-year-old problem and we said it would take a while to basically course correct.
The level of investment was not where it was needed and also the level of customer service was not where it was needed.
And essentially we believe that having more than just one bottler essentially having that big a territory was a better way.
Scalable size bottlers right ownership values right structure and right capability and that's what we have today in North America.
And so we feel very good that this is a model that is going to stay where it is and continue to add value.
It's not going to require any further – all of the time there will be tweaking necessary but not the scale that was needed when we did the transaction back at the end of 2010.
And so that was a core decision that was needed.
That was a major surgery that was needed and that's really what took place.
As far as the juice business is concerned as I said before it's an integrated business.
It basically performs well as an integrated business similar to other juice businesses that we have around the world.
It's a very different model.
It's a very different production.
It's a very different – grove to table model and requires a different way in terms of its distribution especially when it is chilled.
And that's really where a lot of the growth is and value-added dairy.
And that's what you see whether it's in fairlife or that's what you see whether it's in juice.
And it's a very distinct production model very different as well as hot-fill is also the same so same with Innocent in Europe the same with many parts of the world.
And so Jugos Del Valle is also very similar in terms of the way it's produced and that is just a needed aspect for success and for performance in the hot-fill and juice business very different.
Now to your other question related to dilution from franchising maybe I'll pass it over to Kathy.
Certainly.
So we've given you guidance for 2016.
2017 it totally depends on timing.
So we plan to give you more information to help with that with your modeling between CAGNY and what we will give you before the end of the quarter but it's all based on timing.
In 2018 you asked when we would grow out of this.
We plan to complete the program by the end of 2017.
So 2018 we are out of it.
Yeah.
And our long-term outlook just to add for the industry remains very positive Ali.
Our system is extremely well-positioned to take advantage of this.
We're going to be a much more focused company.
We're going to be building brands leading the system and driving new growth platforms.
So our core business will have attractive growth going forward in terms of ROIC free cash flow and so forth.
And so we're very confident and very excited about where the company is going from that aspect.
So I apologize.
Maybe I wasn't clear on the dilution piece to it.
I understand the timing of the program.
I'm not looking for timing in terms of when in 2017 something happens.
I'm more looking longer-term and if you're getting rid of these businesses you will be a better growing business right better margin better growing business? That's the hope.
That's I think all of us as we're trying to estimate longer-term.
I'm just trying to figure out because you're going to be better when do you offset the dilution? So you're growing faster you've taken a hit.
When are you going to offset the dilution? At what point in time effectively do you become net positive and then go beyond that? So that was the question.
Maybe Kathy if you can kind of refine your answer.
I'll leave it at that if you can help there.
So in basically so 2018 obviously there will be some dilution effect because the base hasn't been totally adjusted by that time.
But once we get the base adjusted short of other structural impacts which will not be North America refranchising obviously but short of other structural impacts we will have "gone through that refranchising impact." Now we do have some residual costs that will come out as I said throughout 2016 2017 and there will be a little bit left in 2018 that certainly by mid to late 2018 even the residual costs will be gone.
So I think once the base is reset short of other types of structural impacts we will have transitioned through that.
Okay.
Just one last question sorry on diets it looks like volumes are down 5% but that's better than we've seen recently.
Can you give us some color on whether you're seeing that actually kind of stabilize and perhaps a little bit improve or is it because Pepsi changed formulation and you guys are kind of getting the benefit of it? Just some idea of whether that's getting better on diets would be helpful.
Thank you.
That's it for me.
Ali it's James here.
Look I think in the U.S.
business we did reasonably well in growing Coke Zero.
We're getting Coke Zero back to flat and there's still a decline in Diet Coke.
I think the bigger picture is in the 80% of our business which is the international business the diets and lights and Coke Zeros outgrew Coke Classic and so we're seeing broad-based growth outside the U.S.
of those Coca-Cola variants and that's what gives us the belief that in the long-term we will be able to turn around the business also in the U.S.
Yeah just finally add on that Ali also with our recently-announced One Brand approach to marketing trademark Coke we're extending the strong brand equity of Coca-Cola across the trademark to offer consumers more choice and to also better promote our great-tasting diet and light portfolio which is going to no question help.
So I think that's going to also help us with the stability that is the target.
So I'll just leave it at that.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Muhtar Kent for closing remarks.
Thanks James Kathy and Tim.
So in summary we delivered the plan that we laid out at the beginning of last year.
And we made significant progress against our five strategic initiatives that we laid out.
Importantly our progress against these initiatives is leading to improving performance even in a very challenging macro environment.
And we are evolving and strengthening our global bottling system as we accelerate refranchising and return to a predominantly cost rate-driven model with significantly higher margins and returns.
The long-term dynamics of our industry remain promising and we absolutely believe that The Coca-Cola Company is best-positioned to capture that growth in non-alcoholic beverages and to deliver long-term value to our shareowners.
And as always we thank you for your interest your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.
Thank you speakers.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.