Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Kroger Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tanya and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our first quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's First Quarter 2011 Results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We are very pleased with the exceptional overall results the Kroger team achieved in the first quarter.
Our associates delivered on all facets of our Customer 1st strategy.
We achieved strong sales earnings and cash flow growth.
Needless to say Kroger continued to grow market share in the first quarter.
In some we successfully managed our strategy throughout the quarter which drove solid performance in all of the areas that are important to our business.
Identical supermarket sales increased 4.6% without fuel during the quarter.
This continues Kroger's industry-leading trend of positive identical sales growth for 30 consecutive quarters.
I want to thank all of our associates for their hard work to produce such outstanding results.
Our first quarter performance was broad-based.
Each of the 18 retail divisions had positive identical sales excluding fuel.
We're particularly pleased with sales in our deli/bakery grocery and natural foods departments.
These overall results have given us confidence to increase the original guidance we issued in March which Mike will outline for you in a few minutes.
Our guidance for the year reflects the balance we strived to achieve across our business including strong identical sales growth and outstanding cost control as well as increased earnings and earnings per share.
Our Customer 1st strategy is clearly connecting with customers.
We have shown that our focus on people products prices and shopping experience is meaningful to customers through both good and challenging times.
Our strategy positioned us well to weather the recession and will continue to differentiate Kroger from our competitors whatever the operating environment.
I'd like to touch on 2 themes that will have the most impact on our business over the course of the year.
The first is our commitment to Customer 1st strategy that we discussed.
We want to reduce the overall cost of running our business and doing it in a way that does not negatively impact our customers.
We then reinvest those savings in our customers to drive higher sales which in turn will increase earnings.
The second theme is made up of several external factors that will influence Kroger's business this year.
We discussed these 5 factors in March and I'd like to briefly update you on where we are seeing each of these areas today.
First as you know the weak economy continues to present significant challenges for most households.
The promising signs of the improvement we saw earlier this year seems to have stagnated.
Unemployment remains high in most of our markets and food stamp and other government program use continues at high levels.
As predicted rising prices for food and fuel are affecting customer spending behavior.
Rodney will have more to say about food inflation shortly.
The overall retail environment is generally rational but strong competition for customer's limited dollars remains.
Our price check show that most competitors are passing higher costs on to customers.
We expect approximately $200 million of incremental expense from rising pension and healthcare costs for the year.
Continued cost reduction in other areas is helping us offset these expenses so we can invest in areas that matter most to our customers.
And finally during the quarter our retail fuel operations generated the same earnings per share this year as last year.
Because fuel is volatile we should expect variability over the next few quarters.
Even so fuel remains a meaningful offering for our customers.
Of these factors only one had a negative effect on our business this quarter the rising price of fuel.
This is because nearly $1 per gallon increase takes a big chunk of household budgets perhaps as much as $100 a month which forces families to make choices that change spending behavior.
The other factors had a neutral to positive effect on our performance for the quarter.
We expect these factors will have a dynamic effect on the overall operating environment this year.
We will continue to follow our business strategy and we'll make tactical adjustments as needed to weather these influences.
Rodney will now offer some insight into Kroger's strong business trends in the first quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
The Kroger team did a great job during the quarter to set the stage for the rest of the year.
Our associates' efforts to control expenses enabled us to maintain a compelling price position relative to both discount and traditional grocery competitors even as we continued to pass on cost increases.
We are particularly pleased with our associates' dedication to connecting with our customers.
This will truly differentiate Kroger from our competitors.
One measure of that connection is our total household growth which is up for the quarter.
Our loyal household growth count grew at a faster rate than total household growth indicating that our best customers are the primary beneficiary of the investments we are making in the 4 key areas of our Customer 1st strategy.
We continue to reward our best customers for their increased loyalty.
Customers visited our stores more frequently this quarter and purchased more total units compared to the same quarter last year.
Price per unit was higher in the first quarter compared to a year ago reflecting the effect of price increases from our vendors.
The combination of more households more visits per household more total units purchased and higher retail prices drove sequential improvement in identical sales.
When we dive deeper into Kroger's results for the quarter we see that identical sales were positive for both total household and loyal households.
Identical sales growth among loyal households was stronger than the overall results.
Kroger continued to see positive tonnage growth throughout the quarter which comes on top of strong unit movement last year.
Our promotional and pricing strategies are designed to deliver these sustainable results.
The initiatives we implement focus on building long-term loyalty and expanding Kroger's competitive advantage.
Kroger's first quarter results reflect the power of offering our customers a choice of both corporate brands and national brands.
Millions of loyal households shop with us and 99.9% of them bought at least one corporate brand item per quarter.
We're still working on that 0.1%.
This is particularly important today as shoppers continue to watch their spending and look for quality items at good prices.
For the first quarter corporate brands represent approximately 26% of grocery department sales dollars and 33% of grocery department units sold.
These figures compare with 26% and 34% respectively for the first quarter last year.
Growth in national brand categories where Kroger does not have a presence was the primary driver of this decline.
Corporate brand share overall continues to be well in excess of the prerecession levels.
A highlight of the quarter was the launch of our new homes essentials brand Kroger Home Sense with 200 reformulated or rebranded products.
The collection of smart simple solutions helps customers get great results everywhere in their home.
You'll find our new brand in paper towels facial tissue paper housewares and more.
We also introduced new artisan-inspired Private Selection hearth-baked pizzas in the first quarter.
And I can tell you at least the barbecue chicken one tastes delicious.
My wife and I had it for dinner last night.
These new offerings and others like them will help ensure our customers continued loyalty through our exclusive preferred brand.
As Dave mentioned earlier rising food costs are affecting consumer behavior.
For the quarter we estimated product cost inflation excluding fuel was approximately 3.5%.
We saw inflation in all categories including grocery.
Grocery product cost inflation approached 2.1% excluding milk.
Last quarter we mentioned that rising costs for many agricultural commodities were driving higher retail prices for packaged goods in our grocery department.
While that continues inflation is disproportionately affecting our perishable departments especially seafood.
We expect this trend to continue as well.
We are passing along product cost increases from suppliers and we plan to continue to do so.
At the same time we will continue to invest aggressively in our 4 keys our pricing people products and customer shopping experience.
Our customers continue to seek value in this economy.
With inflation and rising gas prices customers' budgets are stretched.
The value we offer them through lower everyday prices weekly features and personalized rewards to our loyal customers continue to resonate with them.
We estimate we are currently saving our customers $2.1 billion per year.
This demonstrates that while we are passing on inflation we continue to provide significant value to our customers including price.
We have done a lot of work over the last several years to integrate sustainable business practices in our everyday business operation.
Next week we will publish our fifth Sustainability Report.
As a preview I'd like to highlight some of our most successful initiatives.
Five of our manufacturing plants have achieved the impressive goal of sending 0 waste to landfills.
That means that every ounce of raw material that arrives in our plant is either used for product turned into energy or recycled by our associates.
We're on the way to achieving 0 waste in our other manufacturing facilities as well.
Since 2009 our manufacturing division has reduced our monthly waste to landfills by more than 50%.
Improved bagging techniques and increased use of reusable bags translated into saving an additional 159 million plastic bags in 2010.
This puts more than -- puts us more than 35% of the way towards reaching our goal of saving 1 billion plastic bags by 2014.
I am proud to announce that our stores have now reduced their overall energy consumption by 30% since 2000.
That's enough electricity to power every single family home in Fort Worth Texas for one year.
I'd like to thank our associates for helping reduce Kroger's energy consumption through their individual actions every day.
These efforts by our associates are helping make the world a better place to live.
Turning now to labor relations.
We completed successful contract negotiations for our associates in Fort Wayne Indiana.
And negotiations continue in Southern California and with the Teamsters who represent some of our associates in distribution and manufacturing operations in the Midwest.
We will soon begin contract discussions in West Virginia as well as the Memphis area.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide good wages high-quality affordable healthcare job security and retirement benefits for our associates.
It is worth noting that our pension and healthcare costs attributable to labor contracts in Southern California are extraordinarily high making those negotiations particularly challenging.
The labor and benefit costs in this market has had an impact on results and we are not enjoying the same level of success there as we have in the rest of the company.
We are hopeful that both sides will continue their hard work to find mutually acceptable solutions.
Now Mike will offer more details on the first quarter and Kroger's financial strategy.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
As Dave mentioned earlier our identical supermarket sales without fuel increased 4.6% in the first quarter.
Those sales drove strong first quarter net earnings we reported earlier today totaling $432.3 million or $0.70 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $373.7 million or $0.58 per diluted share.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 4 basis points.
While this was helped by favorable shrink results it was partially offset by higher diesel fuel costs.
Kroger's first quarter OG&amp;A rate excluding fuel was 36 basis points lower than the same period last year.
The benefits of leverage from strong sales productivity improvements and outstanding costs control more than offset rising credit card fees healthcare and pension costs.
Our objective is to invest in all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy identifying and delivering sustainable operating cost reductions allows us to make those investments consistently over time.
Our strong nonfuel sales allowed us to leverage rent and depreciation to provide a slight boost of about 7 basis points to the nonfuel operating margin.
While we saw a strong increase in the first quarter operating margin excluding fuel we believe it is most beneficial to view operating margin over an annualized timeframe.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis our operating margin excluding fuel increased by 12 basis points.
With our expectations of earnings per share near the top of our guidance we would expect fiscal year 2011 nonfuel operating margin to be slightly lower than this.
It plays hand-in-hand with our strategy to continue to invest in gross margin as we're able to realize reductions on the OG&amp;A line.
We do expect to continue investments in our Customer 1st strategy during the year.
Turning now to Kroger's retail fuel operations.
In the first quarter our supermarket fuel centers and convenient stores produced solid identical gallon growth.
These outlets earned approximately $0.124 per gallon compared to $0.117 in the same quarter last year.
As Dave noted earlier strong fuel margins did not enhance Kroger's first quarter earnings per share on a year-over-year basis.
This was primarily due to higher credit card fees which increased as retail fuel prices rise.
We need the higher margins to cover this expense.
We continue to expect margins of approximately $0.115 per gallon for fiscal 2011.
I'll now update you on our long-term financial strategy.
We're very focused on allocating the substantial cash flow of Kroger's business to reward shareholders both today and in the future.
During 2011 Kroger plans to use cash flow from operations and cash on hand to fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain our current debt rating.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $573.1 million for the first quarter compared with $532.2 million for the same period last year.
We expect capital investment for the year to be consistent with our original guidance of $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion.
Kroger saw a nice improvement in working capital during the quarter.
One item that helped was higher fuel costs.
We sell fuel before we have to pay for it so it lowers our working capital.
Additionally we have implemented systemic improvements that will advance our progress in this area.
During the first quarter we invested $544.3 million to repurchase 23.1 million shares of stock at an average price of $23.55 per share.
At the end of the first quarter approximately $602.7 million remained under the $1 billion stock repurchase program authorized in March.
We expect to use the full $1 billion during fiscal 2011.
Net total debt was $7.1 billion an increase of $47.3 million from a year ago.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio adjusted for impairment charges in 2010 and 2009 was 1.79 compared with 1.91 during the same period last year.
Just as the first quarter results position us well to continue to invest in our Customer 1st strategy this year they also position us for a better year than we originally thought.
Therefore we are increasing our identical supermarket sales and earnings guidance for fiscal 2011.
We now expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of 3.5% to 4.5% for the year.
The previous guidance range was 3% to 4%.
Kroger increased its earnings guidance for the year to $1.85 to $1.95 per diluted share.
Based on the current operating environment the company expects to achieve results near the top end of this range.
The increase reflects the strength of our first quarter results and the higher estimated LIFO charge of $150 million for the full year.
The original guidance was $1.80 to $1.92 per share.
Additionally we now expect product cost inflation to be in the 3% to 4% range.
The previous range was 1% to 2%.
Keep in mind the factors Dave mentioned that will continue to influence Kroger's sales and earnings performance throughout the year.
The pace of the economic recovery the impact of rising gasoline and food prices on customer spending the competitive environment higher pension and healthcare costs and retail fuel margins.
As Dave said most of these were favorable in the first quarter and it's too early in the year to know if that will continue.
Earnings per share growth rates in the second and third quarters will be near the low end of our full year earnings per share growth expectations.
This is primarily the result of the $0.02 per share tax benefit recorded in each of these quarters last year.
This is consistent with the annual guidance we've provided in March.
Our long-term growth model is to generate 6% to 8% annual earnings per share growth rate over a 3- to 5-year time horizon.
Including dividends the total shareholder return rate is 8% to 10%.
We aim to produce this with less volatility than the S&amp;P 500 over the same timeframe.
We're not opposed to a year occasionally exceeding this range which is what we now expect to deliver in 2011.
Now I will turn it back over to Dave.
Mike thank you.
This was a very strong quarter for Kroger.
As a result of our associates' hard work we strengthened our connection with our customers who in turn are spending more with us.
Our Customer 1st strategy is producing positive results and will drive increased sales and earnings growth well into the future.
We now look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> Sure.
First thing I want to drill down a little bit on the consumer.
So if you look at kind of the consumables part of your mix with the vast majority it looks like we're seeing modest -- very modest demand dampening and modest trading down.
Is that fair? And then I also want to talk about discretionary part of the business too.
But is it the consumer reaction modest to date in terms of how they are trading down or cutting the number of items they buy? John we are seeing some modest change.
And modest would be the right word it's really not very much.
We're seeing some change in mix some trading down perhaps some choices being made some of the areas that are discretionary areas.
Several of those are still a bit challenged compared to our overall results.
But our tonnage is still solid and that tells us that it's really modest changes that we're seeing.
The only other thing I'd add on top of that John is in a few places you can see a little bit of where people are trading down to a lower expensive item or buying a little more on promotion.
But I would echo what Dave said is it's very modest and very early.
So whether it's a trend or just a little bump in the road it's hard to say.
LLC</strong> And then shifting gears if you look at Fred Meyer and marketplace and some of the other discretionary items -- because it also looks like really across retail there's some crowding out people were out right buying food and gas and maybe buying a lot less discretionary product.
Are you seeing that too in discretionary stuff you sell? We would.
Now I would never say -- I wouldn't say that it's ever been robust as we come through the recession but it's gradually improved.
And I would say the improvement has slowed down.
It's still improving but the improvement is definitely slower than what it was.
LLC</strong> Okay and then finally unless...
John sorry to interrupt you.
One other thing I'd add too is one of the things that makes it a little difficult in that area to know for sure is the weather in the first quarter was very challenging.
And so it was either wet or too cold so people weren't in the spring and planting mood so that showed up on buying apparel and some of those things.
It's picked up recently as the weather's improved.
But how much of that is trend and how much of it is the weather I don't know.
That was one other thing I'd want to add on top of the comment I made before.
Sorry to interrupt you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then finally if you think about your gas business maybe to talk a little bit about -- just if you look at your comp and the separation you've got from some others and it looks like gas is certainly playing a role in that.
So talk about the growth in gas how that's impacting the in-store part of your business and then the support you're getting from vendors for gas-related programs because it looks like that's a competitive advantage.
Well I'll comment on the overall view of gas.
We've been pretty bullish on the idea.
We've added lots of fuel stations over time.
We continue to do so.
And that's because we believe that the combination of having gas near our supermarkets is a very strong convenience.
Customers also like the tie-in with our store sales our store purchasing program.
But I think that convenience is a real important aspect so we're quite bullish.
Our gallonage increases at a time when gallons in the U.S.
are basically flat.
So we think we're picking up a little market share there.
But on the other hand we have been adding for the last several years and so I think that's part of the reason we've done that.
I don't know that I'd have any comment about vendor tie-ins.
Really we have a lot of promotions but I wouldn't think that there's anything specific there that would be noteworthy.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
First question for you on your ID.
Can you just kind of discuss the cadence of your IDs throughout the quarter and how sales are trending so far in the second quarter? Sure.
It's a little hard to read sometimes when you have a holiday that changes dates with Easter in the quarter.
But trying to adjust for that it looked like our sales gradually improved through the quarter and have continued to gradually improve into and through the first 3.5 weeks this quarter.
So I mean gradual though it's not a big difference.
But it has gently risen and it's continued through the quarter and into the current quarter.
And let me -- on the pricing and promotional environment I think there's plenty of concerns out there amongst investors about how the second half of this year is going to look particularly given what we heard out of Dollar General.
And I think investors are generally concerned that Wal-Mart will eventually have to get promotional to drive sales.
What are you assuming from the promotional environment in the back half of the year? What's your expectation in terms of -- I mean you actually said that you're going to continue to pass through inflation but the success that you're going to have there and how realistic do you think your expectations are? Ed I think our expectations are pretty realistic.
I don't try to guess what competitor behavior will be.
I have some general assumptions about what it's been most recently.
And I tend to think that that's a projection of what it will look like in the near term.
But there's always a few surprises out there.
I think way too much is being made of Dollar General's statement personally.
They are not as big of factor in the food industry as you might guess.
And even though they tend to be a deep discount kind of an operation the kind of things that they sell don't particularly push us on competitive pricing that much.
So I just think it's overplayed.
In terms of Kroger behavior though I think that we are very predictable.
In fact we try to make ourselves predictable for our customers primarily.
And you see that we are not trying to become overly promotional.
And in fact we're trying to invest in those things that we think can be sustainable.
And we use the term to mean things we can keep doing for a very long time.
And so it is our intention to do more of the same that we've been doing.
Find places to save as we showed in the first quarter reinvest those savings in ways that matter to the customer and then let our sales grow from there.
We also have said in the comments I had that we think it's a reasonably rational market right now.
A little bit of inflation I think has helped that.
I suspect that we'll see some improvement and some sales at other operators as well because of that inflation.
And that tends to bring some rationality to the blade.
So that's how I'd sum it up.
Rodney you might have some comments? Yes the only other thing I would add is one of the things we always want to make sure is that we have the flexibility to deal with over how the market changes.
But what we have found is when you look at our strategy overall by focusing on people products shopping experience and price the whole offering for the customer is a very broad offering that the customer enjoys.
And we believe that that will continue to gain share over time and it's more than just price.
Then our associates do an awful lot of work every day to make sure our customers have a total experience to the whole equation.
So I think it's a broader discussion than price alone.
And then I also think you want to make sure when you look at some of those competitors look at equivalent type prices per unit per ounce of volume and stuff.
Some competitors may have a better price reputation than their prices really are.
That makes sense.
And if I could just squeeze one more in on fuel.
It seems to me like you're managing this business slightly differently now.
And what I mean by that is that if I looked at the slope of the curve in terms of wholesale prices this quarter I would have thought that your gross profit for gallon would have been a lot lower than what it was.
Has there been some change in terms of how you're managing the pricing in that business which is allowing you to make a little bit more money than you traditionally would have in an environment where wholesale prices are rising the whole quarter? I wouldn't read an awful lot into that either frankly because fuel is actually -- of all the items we sell is really pretty much determined by the market.
The retail price is what the market is going to be.
If you try to undercut the market the market goes with you.
If you try to go too high the market stays where it is and you lose gallonage.
So the market is just what it is.
And sometimes in times of rising price you end up making a little bit margin.
Sometimes it actually works the other way.
The thing that seems to work the most is in volatility it seems to improve margins.
But overall we're going to see some quarters that don't produce much in margin and we're going to see quarters that produce good margin.
We think that's why we like to look at it for a year.
And frankly you can even look at it over 2 years and get a cleaner picture because sometimes it's just going to be unpredictable.
Rodney do you want to add? Our next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
So in terms of thinking about your new ID guidance and your change in your focus in terms of well where you think your core inflation is going from 1% to 2% to 3% to 4% might your ID guidance be conservative? Well it's hard to say because we don't know fully what lies ahead.
I think one of the things we were guarding against or guarding for looking out for was trend changes people trading down or buying fewer discretionary items if things got a little tight.
Because as we said that while -- what we've seen is things have stagnated a little bit in the economy and behavior has sort of just plateaued there.
And so the recovery that we had hoped to achieve may not be quite what we had hoped would be achieved.
And so we're trying to leave room for that.
The only thing I would add is we just want to make sure that we're beginning to see some switching of people buying something that's a little cheaper in a category.
And obviously that's fine on units but we want to make sure from an identical sales standpoint that that's reflected.
If we end up incorrect and this is just a little bump in the road then I wouldn't disagree with your comment but time will tell on that.
Deb the other thing is that the 3.5% in the quarter and our guidance for the year.
Keep in mind that if you look at produce and meat and seafood they were huge drivers of that overall inflationary -- some of those and a couple of those were in double-digit inflation rates.
And our grocery category which is 1/2 of our sales was still 2.1% without milk.
And you have to kind of look at that inflationary compared to what items we're actually selling at those different inflation rates as well.
My point is a lot of you all like to take our IDs minus the inflation and come to that answer.
And with the disparate results of inflation in those kind of categories it's even more difficult to do that this quarter.
That approach works a little better with grocery than it does with the other categories.
And grocery was without milk was 2.1% is that what it was? Yes approaching.
At roughly.
And then with regards to OG&amp;A line I think the last quarter you talked about the ongoing implementation of operating efficiencies and in this quarter you talked about outstanding cost control.
Can you maybe dive a little bit deeper into some of what you're doing to really manage your expenses? Rodney can give us some more particular but the main thing that I'd want you to remember is that we had in this quarter in particular -- I mean with a 36 basis point decline we had just about everything going our way.
We had good productivity improvement.
We had really good focus by our associates.
We had some lucky things that came out where in some healthcare cost that we might have expected didn't turn out quite as we had expected them in the quarter.
Some things like that.
But on the whole we are very pleased with where that came out and it was strong.
And I'm not sure it's predictive though of future quarters at least to that magnitude.
Rodney do you want to comment? Well the only thing I would add on top of that it's very broad-based and it really is our associates across our stores our plants our warehouses our offices focusing on every little $0.01 they can help save or make sure that we're executing well on the programs we have in place.
So I really give the credit broad-based to them and it really is in a lot of different places.
And I'm very pleased with what everybody is doing.
Okay and then just adding and finishing up you talked about investments in Customer 1st what types of investments might those be? Well the examples that we usually is obviously is one of them is pricing.
But as Rodney was quick to point out earlier and he's right is that it's actually far more broad than that.
It's everything from training associates in areas that would be meaningfully important to our customers to working on customer service on the front end of our stores to improving out of stocks on the shelf.
All of those require often systems or training or process change.
And each of those we think is an investment that the customers appreciate.
And the only other thing I would add we're using more hours on our front end today than a year ago and 2 years ago and those kind of things.
And all of those obviously improves the customers' checkout experience.
Dave mentioned training.
We're spending quite a bit more money on training to make sure our associates understand what we're trying to get done and why.
We continue to focus on trying to improve the freshness of our products and making sure that the customer has the absolute freshest product they can.
Obviously there's costs involved in executing all of those pieces.
And it's just trying to make sure that we get savings in places so that we can reinvest in those that really matters to the customer.
Our next question comes from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America.
I want to follow up a little bit on Deborah's question.
I mean it sounds like you're running ahead of the comp range this quarter to date.
You mentioned Dollar General not a factor.
Gas prices at the moment probably aren't going to be the worse of a drag in your consumer than they were in the first part.
I think you guys called out natural and organic at the beginning of the call and you're saying sales continue to gradually improve.
Can you just contrast all that with maybe the comment that the early improvement seems to be stagnating? I'm confused.
Are things accelerating or are they stagnating? And maybe help me get maybe a better picture of what you guys feel is generally going on at the moment? I think that the stagnation that we're describing is the overall environment that the customer is operating in.
And we can see it in small ways in the behavior that some of the trading down and exchanges that we described.
Our relative performance within that overall market though has been strong.
And as a result it may not show quite as much in our performance as it will overall is that you won't see the industry recover quickly rapidly just because of what's happening with food purchasing in my opinion.
So I'm very pleased with where we are.
The thing I would remind you though we went through 5 factors that are basically external factors.
But we identified March that we talked about today those 5.
The only one that really went against us in the quarter and the quarter ended middle of March -- I mean middle of May roughly.
The only thing that really went against us was the high price of fuel which caused customers to have less money in their pockets which we think drove a little bit of behavior change.
The other areas tended to work in our favor.
If some of those other areas were to turn south we think that that could have a little bit of a dampening effect on our positioning going forward into the rest of the year.
So things like if food inflation got more wild than where it is causing a shift in behavior that's when it actually becomes a little more problematic for us I think.
Something like that could do that.
You could have a change in competitive environment which we were already asked about before.
I don't foresee that right at the moment but you just never know.
Those are some of the examples and I think it changed the picture.
And just near term as you guys head into the July 4 weekend Wal-Mart's made it clear they're not repeating any of those rollbacks last year.
Can you just sort of give us your sort of anticipation about what the environment is going to look like heading into that period and how you guys feel about that versus last year? We plan to have a solid 4th of July selling time and we plan to do it in a way that's consistent with the way we've been doing it for the last several years not just that holiday but every holiday just try to meaningfully give customers what we think they want in a way that we can keep doing it.
So we've tried not to be overly promotional.
And that's the kind of thing that you can't sustain because then the next year you got to be more than that in order to make it work.
So I think that's our forecast for July 4.
We're pretty excited about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> So I think Rodney touched on Southern California I think in his prepared remarks.
Our sources are saying things are getting pretty testy down there.
Any thoughts on the likelihood of repeating '03 at this stage or you think that's just kind of off the table that there's not a chance? We had some comments in how we saw Southern California and the challenges relative to healthcare and pension and that sort of thing and the comments that Rodney made and so I won't repeat those.
But I will say to that and this is about all I want to say about negotiations is that both sides in the negotiations are showing the patience needed to solve the problems at the bargaining table.
So we're really very hopeful that the process will eventually result in an agreement.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I know we touched on it before but our recent surveys are showing that some of the people that are a little sharper on price have started to drag their feet in some cases.
And actually you guys had actually put that bucket in some markets.
Do you think that's that's accurate that some people have started to drag their feet a little bit and are trying to push their own competitive advantage to gain share? I know you've made some comments to Robbie's question that you think that you guys are benefiting maybe in the environment.
Is this market with high gas prices and the advantage of your business really kind of Kroger's time to shine? One of the advantages we have in times with high gas prices and it's not just true for us but it's true for us too is that you hear a lot written about consumers making fewer shopping trips.
And yet the data we've seen now and what we saw before is we see more trips.
And when we see more trips and we're looking at households now as opposed to customer count although customer count went up too but we're really looking at households.
And the households show more visits and the best we can figure based on talking to customers what we think is happening is people are making fewer trips overall.
But as they make those trips overall they are shopping at Kroger more often.
So Kroger is convenient to every one of those trips they make.
And since we're convenient to every trip they make they shop in us more often.
That's an advantage that actually shows up about now.
Inc.</strong> And finally I just one one last one.
It's more long term.
So besides same-store sales which are obviously fantastic you guys are gaining shares been happening for years how do you grow this business? I hate it when you give us a setup to talk about our strategy.
But you did so I will.
Our strategy actually is pretty simple.
It's been the same now for a long time.
It's really trying -- genuinely trying to recognize that our earnings growth comes from better sales at Kroger.
And our better sales come from connecting with customers better than we previously did.
And so we're focusing all of our efforts on trying to do that.
We know we need to find a way to afford to do that.
And so the way we have chosen to try to afford to do that is reducing costs and reinvesting those in the things that we discussed a little earlier.
I think that's the story going forward.
I think that's what you'll see the rest of this year from us.
I think that's what you'll see for several years and to the future from us.
Scott the only thing I'd mention is when we talked about market share in March keep in mind there's been 40% share available held by none of what we call large players in those markets.
And driving some of that year every year is clearly part of our strategy.
And with that amount of share available in the markets we operate we think we have the ability to continue to grow in our markets.
And I think that's -- I'm glad you added that Mike.
That's a really important concept as there is a lot of business out there and we don't think of it as s sum-0 gain.
We look at our customers who are in our stores already and the amount of business that they don't give us for a variety of reasons.
Sometimes we're not convenient.
Sometimes we don't carry the item they want lots of other reasons.
But for whatever reason there's a large amount of their business that they don't give us that they could give us.
And we're focused on trying to improve on that.
And we think we could grow our IDs at meaningful numbers for a long time and not run out of runway on that theme.
And next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
This is actually Stephen on for Adrianne.
Just had quick follow-up on kind of the consumer spending patterns that you're seeing and any kind of color that you could give us on the bifurcation between your lower-end consumer the value points versus the higher-end consumers within the dunnhumby data that you look at? If you go back and look for most of the first quarter clearly the behavior of higher income customers they were spending more and changing the behavior more than the lower income was continuing really focused on their budget.
If you look at recent data and that's the just the last few weeks we're starting to see some behavior changes even in the higher-income customers.
And a lot of that is driven by our stuff is showing people are eating out less.
Now obviously when people eat out less that's a benefit for us because they're going to get their meals from us versus going out to a restaurant.
And we're starting to see that behavior change and we're starting to see that behavior change in all categories not just the lower-income customer.
One other thing on lower-income customers if you look at like food stamps and WIC and those types of things they continue to grow but not quite at the same level it was growing which would be something that's on the other side where it would suggest things are getting a little better.
But during the quarter we actually are beginning to see some changes later in the quarter which has caused us to make some of the comments we have.
But even with that said we think we're very very well positioned to address if it ends up becoming a little softer because of our convenience store and our bigger value we offer for the customer.
And just as a quick follow-up to that question.
So as gas prices have come down at the end of the second quarter would you expect that to reverse? Or I guess you're not seeing that yet.
I guess just any kind of thoughts on how that could change as gas prices come down? As you know we've been in the Gas business for years.
And we found one of the smartest things to do on gas is never predict it.
And what we've -- when we look at the business overall what we're really focused on is trying to add convenience for our customers to make it just a little easy for their shopping trip.
We seriously we do not try to predict where gas prices are going to go because I get a kick out of what was it 3 weeks ago I cut out a headline where gas prices are going to $5 a gallon.
And then I think it was yesterday or day before the headline was that gas has hit its high point and it's going down from here and this is by very reputable newspapers that are making those comments.
So we really don't try to predict.
The only thing we do know is it will be volatile.
And at the end of the day volatility actually helps us but it's no fun along the way.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital.
Just to clarify on that last question in terms of you saying that the higher income customer looks like they're changing their behavior or they just started to change their behavior a little bit? I guess I'm not clear.
Is that to your benefit or not? Because it sounds like you're implying they were maybe trading back into you from eating out? That's just beginning and it's one of those things -- when you get so much information at some point you don't know whether it's just a blip for a few weeks or if it's a trend change and that's the reason why we're a little cautious on it.
At the end of the day we think it will benefit us.
But if it actually happens we do think at some point behavior will change.
And if you think about if inflation got stronger at some point people are going to stop having as much money to spend on food some of those kind of things.
But it's early on.
So we didn't want to try to suggest that it's a complete trend change but there's just a couple of things that would cause us to pause that we thought would be important to point out.
Okay and sorry the middle- to lower-income customer you would say has taken a step down? No they really haven't changed behavior but they never changed behavior as the economy got better either.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just to clarify when you are talking about competitors passing on inflation does that in include Wal-Mart? Yes we would not separate any specific competitor.
When we look at it we look at competitors of the basket overall and individually so we would not separate any competitor out from the rest.
And then I guess obviously there was a lot of noise with price increases that kind of took place more specifically in this quarter.
Did that have any impact on your strategy from an investing and price perspective? Because I mean obviously the selling gross margin we look at it on a 2-year basis but I'm just wondering if you maybe held off a little bit this quarter just because there was too much noise with pricing? There would certainly be categories where we modified our approach based on what was happening from an inflation standpoint.
And in some cases that might be changing what we did earlier some cases it might be waiting later to what we had planned to do but there's no doubt we changed our strategy.
And as you know that's one of the things we try to make sure we keep the flexibility and modify as we go along from a tactical standpoint.
Okay and then I guess turning to more financial-related questions.
On your share repurchase obviously you did quite a bit of share repurchases this quarter and you still have some left on your existing facility.
But what are your thoughts on increasing that amount during the year? We have $600 million left so I think we have a bit of a runway before we would need to worry about addressing that question with our Board.
And as we said we do expect to use the $1 billion this fiscal year.
Okay; and then on the tax rate I was just wondering what -- you raised it a little bit.
Is it probably to 36% or something? That's just that our current estimate of where we think the year is going to be as you look at all the ins and outs on the tax rate it wasn't dramatic.
It's just a refinement of what we believe the effective rate's going to be.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask about how the inflation built into your comps for the guidance because previously you were thinking 1% to 2% inflation with a 3% to 4% comp.
And now you think inflation will be 3% to 4% but the comp guidance is only 3.5% to 4.5%.
Are you building in some cushion in case volume slows? The way we do we would estimate inflation -- the estimated inflation number is really a point in time estimate.
So it's not the average for the year that we expect a higher rate.
It's really the point in time estimate.
And it's more driven on terms of how we use it for our LIFO reserve.
If you look at the average for the year it would not be as high.
What we find is that inflation within our business always lags in terms of as it flows through.
But it happens it just lags a little slow.
I don't know Mike or Dave.
No I agree with you.
The other thing we keep in mind Mark is we are cognizant of -- as we went through the recession and there was mixed change because of the recession and some inflation that our tonnage stayed very strong but the price points people traded to were a little bit lower which could affect reported IDs.
But the underlying health of the business we would expect to stay there and that weighed on our mind as well.
And I want to go back again and remind you that the first quarter for grocery was just over 2% without milk.
So 1/2 of our sales still are not very far outside that original 1% to 2% expectation range.
Okay and is the 3% to 4% is that what you expect to be by the end of the year is what you're saying? Correct.
Okay and then just to switch topics a little bit.
We've seen a lot of news in the headlines about change in the debit card fees.
Could you talk about what that could mean for you? And would you pass it through to the consumer or would you let it flow to the bottom line.
Well debit card fees we've talked a lot about credit card and debit card fees in the past.
You know that the overall fees have been challenging to the industry and us in particular.
We view it as an expense of the business part of our OG&amp;A.
And as we find ways even if it's the legislature that helps us as we find ways to reduce our costs it is our intention to take those costs saved and invest them in things that matter to the customer.
So the answer is yes we plan to pass that through in one form or another in ways that matter to the customer.
And any way of quantifying how big that could be? Is it going to be a big reinvestment for the customer? We don't have an estimate that we want to make public at this time.
Yes and the other thing to remember on the credit card side we have increased usage of credit card which to that extent continues to grow.
So it's just not -- you got to look at the total together.
You can't just look at one piece by itself.
How much of your tender is debit card swipe right now? It would be a meaningful percentage but it's highly variable across the country.
So -- and it's the type of highly variable across this country.
So what do they say all short statements and economics are wrong.
And it's one of those things where really is very high variance across the country.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
I want to look at a couple of the smaller parts of the business but I think it might be telling how do the C-stores do? And how did the jewelry stores do? And maybe you could talk about the customer behavior in the jewelry stores.
And also have you -- could you report a supermarket gallon growth -- gasoline gallon growth number on this call? On the C-stores a good quarter.
About 1/2 or -- between 1/3 and 1/2 of our C-store divisions overlap with our supermarket.
So they really are tying together where we go to market together as one entity rather than 2 separate companies which I think is helping provide customers a bit better value.
So overall a good quarter.
The numbers wouldn't be that much different than the supermarket side from a gallon growth or that type of stuff.
On jewelry I would say the thing on jewelry is it's volatile from week to week.
Overall it was a solid quarter I wouldn't have said a great quarter but a solid quarter but volatile across the quarter.
So what does that tell us about customer behavior Rodney? It's a good question Chuck.
I think what it's telling you is that customers are still awfully nervous.
But when they get a little money in their pocket they want to do something.
Or if there's an event they want to do something.
And it's trying to make sure that you're ready when the customer wants to do the something.
I still think they're cautious but they've done without for so long they do try to splurge when they can.
All right.
Any numbers you can give us on same-store gas gallons at the supermarket? You asked about the gallons and the gallons in supermarkets and C-stores the ID stores were both positive in low single digits I guess.
C-stores were low single digits.
Supermarkets would be mid-single digits but pretty close to one another depends where you want to draw the line on low and mid.
And the importance of that I think is that based on everything we read anyway is that the gallon usage across the U.S.
is essentially flat.
And that suggests we're growing share in our ID stores so that we're very pleased with that.
Well before we end the call today I would like to share some additional thoughts with all of our associates who we encourage to listen on.
First I want to thank you for your contributions to a solid start to a new -- to the new fiscal year.
You continue to delight and connect with our customers and you achieved outstanding cost control in the first quarter.
Your actions everyday make a real difference.
I also want to recognize associates in several retail divisions for their heroic efforts during the recent severe storms.
For example in Paducah Kentucky a team of nearly 100 associates and customers built a levy around our Kroger store #414 to keep water from rising and flooding the store.
When tornadoes hit Huntsville Alabama our store and logistics associates along with manufacturing and facility engineering and many others kept our stores opened and stocked even without power and without hot water for customers who need food and supplies in the town that was in serious trouble.
And our team at Dillon stores 105 in Joplin Missouri also deserve special recognition led by our co-manager John Gallahue [ph] 35 associates and customers took shelter in the produce cooler when the tornado swept through the community.
Remarkably that produce cooler was about the only part of the store left standing after the storm passed.
John and his team had just a few minutes to react and because they had implemented the emergency procedures they were trained for every person in the store survived.
Many other locations had impacts too long to list here but it included places like Cleveland Tennessee and others who should be recognized.
So we want to express our deepest appreciation to all our associates who helped respond to these storms and to serve our customers through this difficult time.
And frankly we're looking out for each other.
You are truly great people.
Kroger is an amazing family.
That completes our call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
Thank you for attending today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janita and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janita.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our second quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one topic with one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy.
And good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today to review Kroger second quarter 2011 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We are pleased with Kroger's strong performance this quarter which we believe is the outcome of our consistent approach to managing the business and executing our Customer 1st strategy.
Our ongoing investments in the 4 keys or people products prices and shopping experience continue to enhance our connection with customers and drive positive identical sales growth.
Identical supermarket sales for the second quarter increased 5.3% excluding fuel.
This is Kroger's 31st consecutive quarter of positive identical sales growth.
These industry-leading results are due to the efforts of our associates to delight our customers while at the same time delivering good savings on expenses.
Kroger's second quarter performance was broad based across the country and supermarket departments.
Each of our 18 retail divisions produced positive identical sales growth excluding fuel.
Every supermarket department also experienced positive identical sales growth in the quarter with the strongest increases in natural foods deli bakery produce and meat.
Overall the second quarter results reflect the balance we strive for in our business.
We want to consistently deliver value to both our customers and shareholders.
Despite the stagnant economy our sales grew tonnage remained positive and both total and loyal household counts are up.
Fuel performed better and we maintained good cost control.
In keeping with those solid measures of our performance we also delivered earnings and earnings per share growth right in line with our internal expectations.
In March and again in June we discussed 5 external factors that are shaping the overall operating environment this year.
I'd like to briefly update you on how we're managing our business in the context of these 5 factors.
First the sluggish economy continues to strain household budgets while increasing consumer anxiety.
In fact customers tell us their expectation for the economy are more pessimistic now than at any time this year.
And for the first time customers list instability of the financial markets as one of the top economic concerns.
These examples illustrate how consumer sentiment changed during the quarter and are important because most discretionary spending is based on what people feel or perceive about the economy.
Second food and fuel prices increased again this quarter.
In June Rodney noted that we were beginning to detect slight changes in consumer behavior due to the increased variability of the economy and food inflation.
We read this shifting sentiment correctly which played out this quarter.
Our market share continues to grow as we benefit from the credit customers give us for the investments we've made and continue to make to lower the overall pricing of items in our stores.
Rodney will have more to say about how food inflation is affecting shopping behavior shortly.
Third the overall competitive retail environment is rational and our price check show that most competitors are passing higher costs onto consumers particularly in the center of the store.
There are some exceptions to this.
One example is produce.
During the quarter retails did not rise at the same pace as costs because of the shortages in product due to the late growing season.
Fourth in the last quarter we told you we expected to see an increase in pension and healthcare costs for this year.
The increase will be slightly less than originally projected but remains a significant challenge.
And finally during the second quarter our retail fuel operations generated higher earnings per share compared to last year.
Fuel is an important part of our business and as you know has a high level of variability.
We'll continue to follow our business strategy and make adjustments as needed to manage these factors which along with our commitment to Customer 1st strategy are having the most impact on our business over the course of this year.
The goal of our Customer 1st strategy is to consistently reduce the overall cost of running our business and do it in a way that does not negatively impact our customers.
And then reinvest those savings in our customers to drive higher sales which in turn will increase earnings.
Our strategy generated positive momentum and financial results that met our goals in the second quarter.
Rodney will now offer some insight into Kroger's business trends this quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave.
And good morning everyone.
The customer is going through a lot of change right now and we are doing everything we can to minimize the impact on them of higher food costs.
Dave just discussed how we are working our strategy in the context of the broader operating environment.
Associates are working hard to cut cost and we are finding ways to help customers save even as product cost increases are passed on.
We estimate we have lowered our customer's shopping bill by $2.1 billion per year.
Also in keeping with our strategy as it became clear during the quarter that the $0.05 earnings per share tax benefit was coming we accelerated several investments in our 4 keys.
Looking at quarter and year-to-date results we have made many investments to deliver value today and invest for the future.
One of the most important measures of our business is loyal household growth because it lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
Loyal household growth is also a convincing indicator of the strength of our Customer 1st strategy because our best customers are the primary beneficiaries of the investments we are making in our 4 keys.
For the quarter our loyal household count grew at a faster rate than total household growth which is also up for the quarter.
Similarly we achieved positive identical sales for both total household and loyal households.
Identical sales growth among loyal households was stronger than the total household result.
While customers visited our stores slightly more often this quarter they are purchasing smaller baskets on each visit.
Price per unit was higher in the second quarter compared to a year ago reflecting the effect of price increases from our vendors.
I'll talk a bit more about how we're managing through that in a few minutes.
Sequential improvement in identical sales was driven primarily by the combination of more households and higher price per unit.
Kroger saw a slightly positive tonnage growth for the quarter compared to last year.
This is significant in light of the factors Dave discussed earlier and the trend towards smaller baskets for the quarter.
We continue to balance tonnage growth with the pass-through of higher product costs.
In the second quarter corporate brands share grew more than national brands.
Corporate brands represented approximately 27% of grocery department sales dollars and 34% of the grocery department units sold.
These figures compare to 26% and 34% respectively for the second quarter last year.
When you look at these trends compared to our first quarter results corporate brand dollars and total units each increased by 100 basis points.
Our multibillion dollar corporate brand portfolio is a competitive advantage because it gives our customers more choices and variety and value to complement the broad assortment of national brand products we offer.
This is particularly important today as many shoppers continue to watch expenses and look for quality items at affordable prices.
In addition to assisting customers on their quest for value we also want our corporate brand products to appeal to a diverse customer base.
We do this by providing the right products at the right price in our stores and also by communicating with our customers in the right way for them.
We launched our first bilingual website comfortsforbaby.com this quarter.
The website provides parents a choice a place to discover the high-quality products offered under the Comforts brand and the Spanish language version of the site even includes content specifically tailored to Hispanic parents.
We are also expanding our selection of Big K brands soda flavors to appeal to diverse customer taste.
We are launching several new flavors based on customer feedback including apple pineapple passion fruit watermelon kiwi blackberry citrus and mandarin.
As Dave said rising food costs are affecting consumer behavior.
While our estimated product cost inflation excluding fuel was approximately 5.2% for the quarter we were able to slightly increase our $0.01 profit per item in the grocery category.
Rising product costs continued to affect all departments.
Inflation continues to be higher in our perishable department including meat produce and especially seafood.
Last quarter we were beginning to read the shift in consumer sentiment which translated into more obvious behavior changes this quarter.
Customers are even more value conscious when they shop are buying smaller baskets and are selecting some lower cost items including our low -- our corporate brand products.
This has made the value we offer our customers through lower every day prices weekly promotions and personalized rewards to loyal households even more compelling.
We will continue to pass along product cost increases from suppliers.
At the same time we will continue to invest for the future in pricing people products and customer shopping experience.
We continue to make good progress in our sustainability efforts.
I am pleased to announce that 7 of our manufacturing facilities have achieved their goal of sending 0 waste to landfills.
Zero waste means that every ounce of raw material that arrives in a plant is either used for product turned into energy or recycled by our associates.
we're all very proud of these plants.
Turning now to labor relations.
We have a number of unsettled labor contracts currently past their original expiration dates including negotiations in Southern California and Southeastern Ohio and with the Teamsters at our distribution center in Washington state.
These negotiations are challenging because of our efforts to manage the increase of healthcare and other costs a sluggish economy and our need to compete against non-union retailers with lower cost structures are contributing factors as well.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive cost and compensation packages that provide good wages high-quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
We are hopeful that both sides will continue their hard work to find mutually acceptable solutions.
Contracts in Charleston West Virginia area and the Memphis area are set to expire during the third quarter.
Now Mike will discuss our second quarter results and Kroger's financial strategy in detail.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
And good morning everyone.
As we reported earlier today Kroger's second quarter net earnings totaled $280.8 million or $0.46 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $261.6 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
Both the current and prior year quarters benefited from certain tax adjustments.
Without the benefit of these adjustments earnings per share would have been $0.41 in the second quarter this year and $0.38 in the second quarter last year.
This 7.9% increase is consistent with Kroger's expectations for the quarter and long-term earnings growth expectations of 6% to 8%.
FIFO gross margin excluding retail fuel operations decreased 53 basis points.
This decline was mostly offset by improvements in our OG&amp;A rate of 20 basis points rent of 6 basis points and depreciation of 10 basis points.
Our FIFO operating margin therefore declined 17 basis points.
Our LIFO operating margin without fuel declined by 30 basis points due to the 13 basis point effect of our higher LIFO charge.
The reduction of 20 basis points in OG&amp;A demonstrates the leverage of our strong identical food store sales and cost control efforts in the face of rising credit card fees pension and healthcare expenses.
Also as a result of current expected operating performance for the year our incentive plans are estimated to pay off at a higher rate than last year.
Collectively credit card fees pension healthcare and incentive plans have increased 30 basis points with incentive plans being the largest of these.
Additionally we increased our general liability reserves and incurred warehouse startup costs which together increased our OG&amp;A rate by 10 basis points.
We continue to believe it is most beneficial to look at operating margin over an annualized timeframe.
Excluding fuel on a rolling 4-quarter basis the company's operating margin increased 10 basis points.
For the full year we expect the operating margin change to be less than this.
Kroger's retail fuel operations in the second quarter earned approximately $0.174 per gallon compared to $0.143 in the same quarter last year.
For the latter half of the year we expect margins of approximately $0.115 per gallon.
I'll now update you on our long-term financial strategy.
We're very focused on allocating the substantial cash flow of Kroger's business to reward our shareholders both today and in the future.
During 2011 Kroger is using cash flow from operations and cash on hand to fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain our current debt rating.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $428.5 million for the second quarter compared with $402.5 million for the same period last year.
We expect capital investment for the year to be slightly above $1.9 billion excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
Kroger saw a strong improvement in working capital during the quarter.
We have implemented systematic improvements that will advance our progress in this area.
In addition higher fuel cost has helped us improve working capital by $152 million.
We also saw a strong EBITDA return on net operating assets or ERONOA of 19.91% which is an increase of 106 basis points from a year ago.
This is the metric we use internally to measure our operating units.
It represents rolling 4 quarters EBITDA divided by net operating assets and we are very pleased with the increase in this important metric.
During the second quarter we invested $258.6 million to repurchase 10.6 million shares of stock at an average price of $24.30 per share during the quarter.
At the end of the second quarter approximately $403.4 million remain under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in March of 2011.
Since the end of the quarter Kroger has purchased 4.5 million shares of stock at an average price of $22.87 per share for a total of $103.5 million.
We expect to use the full billion dollars during fiscal 2011.
Net total debt was $6.9 billion a decrease of $49 million from a year ago.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio adjusted for impairment charges in 2010 and 2009 was 1.71 compared with 1.87 during the same period last year.
Based on the second quarter results we are increasing our identical supermarket guidance for fiscal 2011.
We now expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of 4% to 5% per year.
The previous guidance range was 3.5% to 4.5%.
Kroger maintained its full year earnings guidance of $1.85 to $1.95 per diluted share.
Based on the current operating environment the company expects to achieve results near the top end of this range.
We continue to expect product cost inflation to be in the range of 3% to 4% for the year.
Keep in mind the factors Dave mentioned that will continue to influence Kroger's sales and earnings performance throughout the year.
The pace of the economic recovery the impact of rising gasoline and food prices on consumer spending the competitive environment higher pension and healthcare costs and retail fuel margins.
Our long-term growth model is to generate 6% to 8% annual earnings per share growth over a rolling 3- to 5-year time horizon including the dividend yield of 1.5% to 2% to total shareholder return rate into the 8% to 10% range.
We aim to produce this with less volatility than the S&amp;P 500 over that same timeframe.
We are not opposed to a year occasionally exceeding this range which is what we expect to deliver in 2011.
Now I'll return it back to Dave.
Thank you Mike.
Kroger had a solid quarter because our associates delivered strong results in line with our Customer 1st strategy and consistent with our expectations.
The economy is sluggish one of Kroger's strengths is our insight into our customers.
As a result we're able to adjust our offerings to meet the customers' changing needs.
Whatever the environment our Customer 1st strategy will maintain the right balance for our customers and shareholders growing customer loyalty and delivering earnings and earnings per share growth consistently.
We will continue to deliver value today and invest for the future.
Now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> A couple of things.
Can you shed a little more light on the accelerated investments? I know you're not going to say specifically but generally speaking where did those fall? And is that sort of an acceleration heavily weighted toward the quarter or something that's going to be ongoing at that rate in the back half of the year? John these were investments that we often talk about in investments we make with the customers things that we think will appeal to them.
They are investments that we had planned to make at later times in the year that will be ongoing.
We simply moved it up a little bit in time.
And the items that were selected based on the work that was done with dunnhumby as it always is in terms of identifying what's most important to the customer and the environment that we're in and making sure those match against what the customer desires are.
LLC</strong> So that was all in FIFO gross x fuel FIFO gross.
And the -- so down 53 is not necessarily representative some of that was pulled forward.
Because I guess the other question is are there any other issues with timing of pass-through? It doesn't sound like that's as much of a problem.
In the prepared comments one of the things it's one of the reasons we want to make sure if you look in the grocery department the profit per item actually improved slightly during the quarter.
And we thought it was really important for everybody to understand that we were able to pass those cost increases through.
And we actually if you look at profit per item it's slightly improve.
It's not huge but a little bit.
Obviously in periods of inflation the inflation itself will drive a little lower margin.
LLC</strong> And then I guess as a follow-up to that you talked about the sort of state of the consumer.
Last time you have talked about where the higher end consumer was thinking about eating out less pulling in a little bit.
Has that continued with that higher end customer getting more skittish? Well the customers obviously are segmented in this kind of the economy even more maybe than normal.
And we're seeing that the higher end more affluent customers we're seeing their behavior actually continue pretty much what we've seen in the first quarter.
So we're seeing good solid growth in areas that you might expect same things we identified last time.
Things like organic produce and sushi and Starbucks and Boar's Head meats and some of those areas are all performing solidly and continue to do so.
And that customer is behaving as we would hope.
But they continue to tell us they're more and more concerned about the economy the stock market and eating out less.
So what they're doing and what they're saying is a little inconsistent.
But usually eventually it will catch up with what they say.
LLC</strong> And then just one more final thing.
How do you guys analytically get your arms around -- sentiment has nothing to do with the economy it has to do with grid lock in Washington and stuff like that impacting the consumer and how long it lasts and how that alters their behavior.
Is that possible to analytically get your arms around that or not really? Well first don't get me started on that.
This group's holding me back because I have some rather strong opinions on the subject.
But the point you're really making is that we don't need to be economists to try to understand what's happening with the customers.
We need to ask our customers and we need to look at their actual behavior as it shows itself in the store.
And by trying to do that while there's not a way to quantify it with great precision you can get a pretty good feel.
And we've tried to give you some color to that give you a sense of what we're seeing and I think we've done that.
And I think actually I feel very comfortable that we have a good feel for what our customers go through.
Part of it is driven really by our own associates who live every day in the communities that they serve.
They themselves go through the same kinds of feeling and then they of course live it through their own friends neighbors family and everyone else.
And that gets reflected back in our thinking as well as the dunnhumby data as well as the panel work that we do with our customers.
And your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
So number one can you remind us how you define a loyal household? Rodney? It's a combination of number of visits and how much a customer spends.
And some customers will come every day other customers will come once every 2 weeks.
Both can be loyal and it really depends on their behavior and activity.
And then we've done an awful lot of work of understanding where else they shop to understand how loyal they are to us versus other retailers.
Think of it as a grid that you have -- as opposed to metrics that go together to determine whether they're classified as loyal.
And as you've obviously seen this change in shopping behavior can you maybe provide some insights in terms of the more personalized reward program? Well if you look it's something that we measure obviously every time we make a one-on-one marketing decision.
Customers continue to react better and better in terms of as defined about their editorial feedback they give us and the actual usage of what we do on a targeted basis.
Now we've been doing this for I don't know I guess 6 years now.
And if you look at the trend over time we've had tremendous improvement in terms of being able to engage with the customer in a way that they appreciate and need better and better.
And it's something that every quarter we get better but we're constantly working with dunnhumby and our merchandising teams to figure how to even get better from where we are.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to elaborate onto one of John's questions.
But the 53 basis points in terms of the investment that we saw this quarter with regards to gross margin we shouldn't think of that as being consistent over the next 2 quarters for this year is that correct? I would look at -- what we've tried to do is try to look at where we are in balancing investments in gross margin and money that we save in our overall expenses.
And so it's that combination which produces the operating profit is the way we think about it.
And this quarter is a little unusual frankly and that's why we actually gave more color than usual.
Because while the investment in gross was partly driven by when you have periods of high inflation you're going to naturally have some of that and then of course some of the things that we've done and chosen to invest.
But the second thing is and we identified a lot more color on this was the various components of our OG&amp;A and other expenses.
We tried to show you that because there were several items that are unusual.
And I won't call them onetime items but I would call them things that aren't necessarily reoccurring.
And examples of that is the incentive pay is a good illustration because it was a particularly low last year.
And we're accruing based upon what we have given you as guidance for the year this year.
So if we produced those results then the expenses we've shown will be true.
And if we don't produce those results then we'll back some of those expenses out in later quarters.
So if you take things like incentive pay if you take some things like the additional accrual general liability or the logistics expenses that we identified you actually have much more savings in OG&amp;A.
The 20 basis points in my mind was the bigger issue and it was lower than it should have been.
But if you take those other issues into account it actually ended up being a higher number.
So the difference between our gross investment and the expenses in the quarter was in terms of our ongoing business was much narrower than these numbers imply.
And the focus as Dave has mentioned the focus is really making sure we balance the OG&amp;A reduction with the gross margin change.
And if you look at the second quarter as you look forward we're working really hard to make sure that those stay completely in balance.
There were a couple of unusual situations in the second quarter that made that difficult and that's what Mike highlighted.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Can you guys tell us what you're selling gross margin was this quarter? I know that you omitted that from the press release this time around.
Yes it was down 78 basis points.
We had a really good solid expense control and some of the expenses that are embedded in the gross in particular shrink really had a good performance.
We didn't use it because we actually think it's -- we think it's more relevant for the way you all look at the business to look from the gross profit and the OG&amp;A and the other expenses and then the operating profit.
But you're certainly welcome to it.
Okay.
And I'm just trying to understand what you're saying about the pulling forward of price investments.
Because I look at your guidance right and your guidance hasn't changed but the tax rate is obviously going to be lower because of what happened this quarter which would imply that you're doing more than just pulling forward some price investments.
I mean it would seem to me like that means that you're investing a bit more than what you would've thought last quarter.
So what am I missing? Well if you look at what we would've had in our internal estimates or budgets there may have only been 4 periods or 5 months or 6 months of pricing investments.
By moving them forward we'll end up with 9 or 10 months of expense this year.
And some of that will be additional expense in the dollars in 2011.
Now the flip side most of the things that we find the lines would cross where the gross profit dollars actually improve over time.
And those are the things that we would expect that would happen in 2012.
So that would be one of the reasons for not the change in the adjustment.
The other thing is remember a year ago we also had a tax credit over change in reserves that helped a couple of cents too.
And we had one in the third quarter as well.
Okay.
And can I just ask about the decision to invest the tax savings into lower prices? And the reason I'm asking this question is because you look at this quarter and your IDs grew 5.3% yet EBITDA was up only 2.7.
And last quarter it was 4.6 and EBITDA was up 11.6.
And historically you've had a lot of volatility I should say in these numbers which is frustrating investors I think right because you look at your stock today and what it's doing.
And I guess the real question is how do you balance the decision to pull forward investments and the near-term volatility that creates versus what it's going to get for the business as well as what you're looking to do for shareholders? And then also how confident are you that you're going to get the return on this investment? The return in my mind would be that going forward the EBITDA growth would be better than ID growth maybe in the back half and should we think about it that way? Well it may help you to know that our bonus plan mine specifically but all of ours is based upon in part based upon EBITDA.
So you know that we pay close attention to that number.
So that's the first thing I would tell you.
Second is that we look at this over a longer time span.
I don't think a quarter timeframe gives you a good enough feel generally.
Sometimes it does but generally doesn't give you enough feel for market.
And one thing that we have tried to do in fact I'd have to say -- I would want to say that we pride ourselves in doing is try to give you an objective as objective as an insider can give an objective view of what we really think is happening inside our business.
And that's the reason we tried to add some of this color about what was happening with the expenses because I actually feel the quarter was quite solid.
I am very pleased with the way it balanced out.
There were a couple of anomalies that were raised some concerns that you mostly addressed.
For instance we got the benefit of tax on one hand.
We did choose to advance some spending on some items that was going to happen anyway it's just a question of when we chose to put it in place.
And we thought we'd get some benefits this year by going ahead and we wanted to try to get those benefits in the second half so that's why we got started a little earlier.
And then we had some expenses that were really the kind of that don't reoccur.
The logistics expense the general liability we've already mentioned.
And then of course the incentive if we had a decent year last year the comparison wouldn't have been as great.
And then I haven't even mentioned the LIFO at all.
But when you add up a sharp turn in inflation compared to where we were last year if I can remember right I think in the second quarter last year we had a deflation in grocery I believe.
A little inflation.
Very slight.
Slight inflation.
And as a result it was a totally different picture so we had a big increase then in the LIFO charge this quarter too which as you know just an accounting entry.
So I feel better about it than what I think you're describing.
And I would look at a longer-term horizon than just a single quarter and take the first quarter second quarter and third and fourth and look at our guidance.
Okay.
So if in the back half we see some re-acceleration in EBITDA growth that would suggest that the investment was worth it and if we don't then maybe not? Well I think the thing I would judge based on is what happens with our sales what happens with our household growth and then what happens with earnings per share.
If we hit the guidance that we've given you and that's what we're saying we believe it will achieve and we think that will be a quite solid year particularly.
In any year I think it'd be a quite solid year but particularly given how sluggish the economy is.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to check on my notes here.
Did you say cost inflation ran 5.2 in the quarter and it's going to decelerate to the 3 to 4 rate? Did I get that right? Yes we said it was 5.2 in the quarter.
We still expect for the year to be 3 to 4.
And remember those numbers are year-on-year.
And when you go back we started seeing some inflation late last year.
Inc.</strong> So this goes to kind of the meat of my question.
In the back half of the year I guess kind of inflation expectations cost.
And also if we could get some thought on just the cadence during the quarter and how the current sales run rates are.
And it sounds like the consumer weakened up quite a bit maybe through your quarter and maybe some current tonnage thoughts? Well I'll give you a few observations.
First is the sales had some I would say modest growth through the quarter period to period to period.
My personal opinion is that was driven more by the change of inflation and the change of retail pricing than it was driven by greater activity by the customer.
So start with that.
Second is if you look at the quarter so far and we're into this current quarter by what 3 weeks? And a few days.
Yes 3 and a few days and we are running in sales approximately the same as to what we did last quarter.
So really you'd have to say so far this is consistent with the trend we saw last quarter.
As per tonnage tonnage was positive.
It was slightly positive.
It wasn't strongly positive.
And I think that's a clear result of higher pricing and people are buying fewer items as a result of higher pricing.
And that's true not just with us but I think that's a universal statement that would be true really with just about every retailer.
In fact my personal opinion is is that the overall market in terms of if you can put your arms around items that are sold in the overall market I think those items are down on the whole.
And the fact that we are positive suggests and I think it's absolutely true is that we're growing market share and the market just seems to be contracting just a bit.
So that's how I'd size that part up.
We saw a slight shift more in the direction of Kroger brand products not a big surprise.
Sort of a reminder of maybe a year or so ago maybe 2 years ago as customers got more concerned about the economy there was a little more shift towards our products.
We're of course pleased with that because we think we have outstanding Kroger brand products.
So I think that's a thumbnail sketch that I would leave you with.
Inc.</strong> And so you're still currently slightly positive on the tonnage Dave? Yes it will be very similar to what we had in the third quarter.
Yes I don't see it much different right now than what it was in the quarter.
Inc.</strong> And then one follow up.
On the onetime expenses that you guys highlighted logistics and a couple of others were those expected expenses even though they're onetime? Were they expected when you thought about the year or were they unexpected? And then I'll yield.
I'll talk about both of them.
The logistics expense we expected some expense.
But we've actually run into some just system operational issues that we've just got to work through that produced some higher costs.
And sometimes logistics projects and other projects like that are really big infrastructure kinds of things and so the dollars can be quite large.
But our confidence in terms of what it will ultimately produce is very strong.
It's just that we ended up with some short-term costs that we hadn't planned on.
General liability is an example.
We review those I think twice a year actually we look at them.
But midyear every year we look at where our reserves are and we just found that our reserves hadn't been high enough on some previous year expenses and so we've increased those.
You want to add anything to that Rod? I mean the general liability is primarily driven by our -- an increase in the cost per claim over what we had been trending and it caused us to raise our reserves for several prior years.
So the short answer to your question is the 10 basis points we called out neither one of those expenses would've been in our original expectations for the year which is why we did call them out in the quarter.
We don't want to make a bunch of excuses but they are there.
Nor do I necessarily expect them next year.
Right exactly.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
I got a couple of questions.
Maybe we can just start by talking about inflation in perishables.
Everybody we talked to says that the highest inflation and you said it too meat produce or the meat dairy and seafood.
And you talked about passing along higher inflation in dry grocery.
But what's happening with perishables? I think you said in produce it wasn't all being passed along? So I'm a little...
Well I've generally made a big distinction on these calls in discussing inflation between center of the store and the perishable areas.
And the reason really isn't so much competitive behavior but it's because of customer behavior.
In the grocery side of things in the center of the store side of things it actually is pretty clear-cut.
We have been passing that along.
I think all of our competitors have been passing that along.
You see some tonnage change and the CPG companies manufacturers and even retailers have to decide what's the right price for the tonnage.
And so that's how grocery works out.
But the perishables customers shift what they buy in a nanosecond.
I mean walk into produce just as an example and if bananas happen to be high this week you start switching and say I think I'll buy apples this week.
So there are plenty of other things to shift to so the rate of inflation and where the movement goes is really a totally interesting computer puzzle.
And as a result I would say that generally you wouldn't see a direct connection between what we're able to achieve in sales in a department and what happens with the rate of inflation in a department.
And I think in produce for instance in that case it wasn't so much -- wasn't anything really other than the growing season changed.
And as a result product was short at certain points of the time which meant the pricing was high at certain parts of the time which meant customers didn't buy that product as much as they would have otherwise.
So it ended up being a case where our gross profit in produce wasn't as strong as we thought it might have otherwise been but for that spike in pricing.
And the only thing I would add if you expect something to go up in cost for 4 weeks or 6 weeks many times you won't even -- you won't be able to pass that cost through because if it's going to come right back down in 6 weeks it just doesn't make much sense to do that especially if the market doesn't allow you to do that.
So you really have to look at each category area specifically for that and that would be one of the reasons in produce that you wouldn't see the same pass-through there as what you would see in grocery because if Jiff raises the price of peanut butter it's going to probably be that way for 6 months or a year or whatever.
Or even 5 years.
It's very much more predictable in grocery.
I think he's absolutely right.
Okay.
Now I want to go back to what I know is a dead horse but I'm going to beat it anyway.
I'm still confused about accelerating certain investments.
I understand what you did but I'm not sure I understand what it means for the rest of the year.
You believe you'll get a benefit in the second half? And do you also mean that you're keeping the amount that you spend for the year fixed so you moved it up in the second quarter but the full year will be the same? If you look at the total dollars we would expect to spend in investments we would expect them to increase because you'll end up with 9 or 10 months or 8 or 9 months of dollar investments where before we may have only had 4 or 5 months in the budget.
So if you look at the dollars that we would expect to invest in pricing for the year or services in some cases you would end up with more dollars.
In terms of the second half the expectation assuming that we picked the right things to accelerate the pricing on is we would expect first the tonnage will improve nicely as a result of that.
Then over time the gross profit dollars will actually increase.
But the gross profit dollars in terms of them actually increasing is different for different items and that elasticity really is different for different categories.
And that's the work with dunnhumby in terms of trying to make sure we understand that.
Okay and just real quickly.
In the past when you've had unusually high margin in fuel you've seen that as the kind of windfall similar to the tax windfall.
Did you look at it that way this quarter? I mean on the fuel margin we wouldn't have looked at it any different.
As you know we're much more focused on fuel margin for the year because any particular month you'll have volatility both directions.
The fuel margin happened was better than we expected a little faster than we expected.
We would not expect that to continue going forward.
You didn't invest that money? Not really no.
Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Can you give us some idea on how gallons performed fuel gallons performed? I don't have that in front of me but they were up.
The fuel gallons in total were up.
On an identical basis slightly up but not as much as what they would have been in the past.
Does that suggest a reduced reaction to the rewards program? Any insight into that? No I think it's really more if you look overall everything that we can find total gallon usage across the country continues to decline.
And we continue to gain share.
Also we would have some we'd call it sister store impacts but obviously impacts when you open a new fuel site on others.
Some would also be as we expanded the Shell program some customers that would've come for us before for a reward would go to Shell if the Shell location is more convenient.
All right I understand.
Looking at your movement of some of these price promotion programs up in the year and higher overall spending does that mean perhaps that something comes out of fiscal 2012 as a result of this? We think that everything we do in any given year helps build for the next year so the answer is yes.
And we have -- we've given now given you our long term kind of forecast of where we see the company.
And that's one of the ways we produce continued growth in sales and continued growth in earnings by setting things up to cause the customer to keep coming next year.
Chuck I want to make sure we're answering the exact question you asked.
It sounded to me like you asked the question does this mean there was something we have planned in 2012 that we're not going to do now because we moved something into '11 so we have less investment in '12? That's right.
Oh okay.
Well that's not what I was answering no.
And I don't think that is what we would expect.
We have a as we've described regularly we have 12 to 18 months visibility in how we want to invest dollars in all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy.
And as we move things around if we have the ability like we did with the tax benefit to move something up to balance our earnings per share growth we will look at what we want how we want to balance overall spending in '12 as well.
But overall we would be very focused on consistently delivering the 6% to 8% earnings per share growth plus the dividend of 1.5% to 2% for a total of 8% to 10%.
And we would look at what we can do in '12 in the context of making sure that we can deliver that.
And looking at the tax rate as sort of funding which you did in the most recent quarter what were you reacting to? Was it a slowdown in the basket size shrinkage in the basket size as you indicated? Was it something competitive out there that you needed to respond to? Well I think it's really 2 things.
First is we look at tax like that as certainly not something that is replicable.
It's not in our plan to have that every quarter.
Love to have it every quarter but not likely.
And so it's a onetime thing so we would not spend it in something that is new and ongoing.
So I wouldn't incur some big new expense in the second quarter that's going to be a big new expense in the third quarter if the way in which I thought of was going to pay for it was a onetime event.
So all we really did was slide earlier some of the expenses that we were going to already be incurring.
Second is I think we read the economy as we've described it.
It's sluggish and we thought any extra help that we could give to customers at this time would be appreciated.
It was not in reaction to any competitive situation at all.
In fact I think the markets are quite rational right now.
And last question Mike you talked about the share repurchase.
You plan to use the full $1 billion.
Bump this over to you Dave.
Do you see it perhaps going above that this year with the increased board authorization perhaps occurring? Chuck at this point we have a little around $300 million remaining that we can spend.
And we think that's comfortably going to keep us in the market for several months as we go forward here.
And at this point don't see any need to comment on whether or not we would increase the authorization with the $300 million remaining.
I do appreciate the question but that's a discussion actually for our board room not for this call.
Your next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I guess just one quick follow-up on the pass-through discussion in perishables.
Any outlook as you move into the back half of the year if that gets any better with the pass-through or is that a concern to have for the next 2 quarters continuing? Right now we would expect probably it wouldn't be so much the pass-through getting better but the inflation pressures would be a little less.
Now if you look at dairy we would expect a little less inflation there.
If you look at produce we would expect less inflation there.
If you look at meat we would not see much change in meat and seafood.
So I don't think it's so much the pressure from pass-through as it's just the cost pressure on the cost pressure side.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
So Wal-Mart has made some comments that they'd like to widen the price gap with the grocers.
Have you noticed them dragging their feet more on inflation holding the line while others have raised or any change in their behavior in the last quarter or so? Well Mark I'm not going to comment on a competitor specifically.
The comment we'll make is that we see the market as rational and we see our competitors have followed a similar strategy to what we have.
Generally they pass through cost increases if they've gotten them.
Okay.
And with your greater gross margin investment this quarter did you notice others reacting to your move? Again I'd say the market was pretty rational and I would not characterize our gross profit investment as a promotional pricing that would generally cause the market to react.
That wasn't our objective and I didn't see that happening.
Okay.
And then if you look at the overall inflation number of 5.2 what do you think the center of store inflation looks like right now? Let see.
Do you have that in front of you? We'll look that up but...
Total grocery that includes dairy would be slightly higher than that.
With dairy I think it's probably a little lower than that -- without dairy I mean.
It's probably right at or a little lower than the overall blended rate.
It's about 5% without dairy.
Now one of the things I want to -- and I'm not going too long into this I'd be happy to talk about it later.
But the inflation number we give out is a volume-weighted calculation based on how our product is sold and bought by our -- or how our customers buy our product.
So we volume-weight the way in which a customer buys an item when we calculate the inflation number that we talk about.
It's an entirely different inflation calculation than we use for LIFO which is just purely the cost of product this year and how many items we have this year and last.
And I don't know -- a lot of times people want to compare our inflation with other people's inflation and all I know is how we calculate our inflation.
We try to do it based on what our customers are seeing and feeling on how they shop and I don't know how other people do their inflation calculation.
So that's important to keep in mind.
Well some of the other inflation numbers being called out are actual price inflation as opposed to the cost inflation you're calling out.
Right.
Okay.
I think that's fairly clear.
That's it for me.
Your next question comes from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital.
And I think we'll make this our last question Karen.
Okay.
So just housekeeping to clarify.
Your guidance for the full year that was made to earnings guidance that was maintained that reflects a $0.46 earnings quarter not the $0.41 I assume? That's correct.
Correct.
I guess again to the selling gross margin here.
I mean I understand what you did and why you did it.
And obviously you're doing this for the benefit of the customer and the shareholder in the long term.
But I guess the more cynical view would be you did have an opportunity to flow some of it to the shareholder and chose not to.
And I guess along those lines maybe help you understand why this may not be a situation that you ended up in in '09.
When you have invested in a category and your competitors reacted much more aggressively than you expected and that caused a 109 and 126 basis points deterioration in those 2 quarters.
Can you kind of give a little color on that and why you feel comfortable that that won't will happen again? Sure.
I think what we did not anticipate back then was the competitive environment that really had I been in a competitor shoes I would've needed to become more aggressive.
It wasn't so much back then that we did something that sparked a reaction.
It was all of the operating environment was set up in such a way that you almost had to go after sales because we were all -- not we were all we weren't but many of our competitors were running negative identical sales and that generally produces a different kind of reaction.
Well in an inflationary environment like this I'd be shocked if most of our competitors didn't have better sales than what they have had before and we have better sales than what we had before.
And it often is actually a little easier to manage.
Now sometimes inflation gets a little too high.
But it's a little easier to manage because you have inflation in your product cost but you don't have it quite as much as you have in the expenses.
So that's why I think that situation is different.
I don't actually see them as parallel.
And certainly not on our part any kind of a competitive move that we think is going to give us an upper hand or something.
We think of the business longer term than quarter-to-quarter.
We're looking at business over the course of a year and 2 years and 3 years and we're trying to build.
And so it shouldn't shock you ever that we reinvest in places that we think are meaningful to the customer.
But at the same time you should keep holding us accountable to find places to save to help fund that investment.
And in this particular quarter we did not do that and we've identified the reasons why.
We think they are short duration.
And as a result felt like it was an acceptable and appropriate way for us to pursue a longer-term strategy.
I just would add one small point.
If you look at earnings per share without the tax and other items it's $0.41 versus $0.38 which is a 7.9% increase.
If you look at the $1.95 on the top side of the range that's an 11% increase in earnings per share for the year.
And then obviously add the dividend on top of that which is close to 2% right now.
So all 3 of those numbers are very very strong looking out for the shareholder and delivering for the shareholder a return.
Right.
Okay and then just a last question.
What was traffic up in the quarter same store? Well let's see.
The traffic we have is total and it's not same store right? And it was up about 1%.
And the average sale was up about 4%.
Yes but remember we had 39 fewer stores this year than a year ago.
So our ID sales are actually higher than our non-ID sales because of that.
Thank you.
And before we have everybody hang up we do have a few comments we want to share particularly with our associates who we encourage to listen into the call.
I want to remind you all that Sunday this Sunday is the 10th anniversary of the tragic attacks of September 11.
We have asked that all of our supermarkets pause for a moment of silent reflection to remember the victims in honor of the heroes of 9/11.
Kroger supermarkets in the Eastern time zone will pause for a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m.
this Sunday marking the time when the American Airlines Flight 11 struck the World Trade Centers North Tower 10 years ago.
Because of the time difference stores operated by Kroger in other parts of the country will do the same thing later that morning.
We can do much more to honor the memory of those who perished and many of our associates will join in a special remembrances where they work.
Our King Soopers Store Manager Tim Dowdell whose brother Lt.
Kevin Dowdell was among the 343 firefighters who lost their lives in New York on 9/11.
He displays the flag prominently at his store every day.
And I love that.
I also encourage you to join in our local efforts throughout the month of September to recognize and thank our everyday heroes whether it's a special celebration a gift of a meal a simple thank you.
You can help show your deep appreciation to the men and women who help keep our families communities and stores safe.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I'll be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today to Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stacy.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our third quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's third quarter 2011 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger associates delivered on our Customer 1st strategy in the third quarter.
We had strong sales and earnings per share growth.
This is exactly the positive momentum we strive for as we enter the holiday season our most exciting time of the year and we are very pleased.
Keep in mind that a year ago third quarter earnings were helped by a $0.02 tax benefit and a $50 million lower LIFO charge.
In that context this was an outstanding quarter.
Based on the consistency of our results over the course of this year we have the confidence to raise our earnings and sales guidance for the year.
Identical supermarket sales increased 5% without fuel for the quarter.
This continues Kroger's industry-leading trend of positive identical sales growth for 32 consecutive quarters.
Consistent identical sales growth lets us know that our Customer 1st strategy is connecting with customers in a meaningful way.
Our focus on 4 keys our people products prices and shopping experience is how we grow customer loyalty each shopping trip.
Positive identical store sales also drive earnings growth as illustrated by our results so far this year.
Our third quarter performance was broad-based across the company.
Each of our 18 retail divisions had positive identical sales excluding fuel.
Every department achieved positive identical sales as well led by growth in natural foods deli and produce.
I would like to especially recognize our associates for their excellent work to control costs this quarter.
Kroger's financial results are solid dependable and predictable especially on a rolling 4-quarter basis.
They reflect the balance that we seek between cost savings and investments to consistently grow our business and deliver a value both for our customers and our shareholders.
In a few minutes Rodney will share some additional customer insights with you including loyal household and tonnage trends along with the performance of Kroger's exclusive corporate brands.
First I'd like to touch on the 2 themes that we told you at the beginning of the year would influence Kroger's fiscal 2011 financial results.
The first is our commitment to the Customer 1st strategy that we just discussed.
We want to reduce the overall cost of running our business in ways that do not negatively affect our customers and then reinvest those savings in our customers to drive higher sales.
Higher sales in turn produce higher earnings.
The second theme includes the external factors that are influencing Kroger's business this year.
The pace of the economic recovery the impact of food and fuel prices on customer spending the competitive environment higher pension and healthcare costs and retail fuel margins.
Inflation and the economy have had a more negative effect on the overall operating environment than we had originally expected.
We have successfully navigated these influences by following our business strategy and making tactical adjustments as needed over the course of the year.
Rodney will now offer some more insight into the business for the third quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with the results our Kroger team has achieved in the third quarter.
As Dave mentioned our associates have done an incredible job serving our customers by controlling expenses and cutting costs.
We are investing those savings in ways that enhance the shopping experience and help our customers save even as in food inflation persists at high levels.
Executing our Customer 1st strategy enables us to deliver value today while continuing to invest for the future.
I would like to begin by discussing how our customers are navigating this challenging consumer environment and how that is impacting our business.
Despite the consumer caution and rising food prices Kroger continued to add both loyal and total households in the third quarter adding loyal households at a faster rate.
The combination of growing loyal households and an increase in shopping trips resulted in more units sold to those customers.
We are seeing increasing stress on certain customers both in terms of what they tell us is happening to them and how they are behaving.
Smaller baskets are the norm across all customer segments in line with trends we began detecting in June.
Customers are shifting what and how they are buying groceries and consumables.
For example we saw significant growth in sales in our corporate brand items.
Some customers are buying smaller pack sizes for items in certain categories.
These changes are a result of customer reaction to the combination of food inflation and a poor economy.
When you consider that household income has remained stagnant for the past year in fact for the last several number of years some shifting in purchasing behavior is understandable.
This is one of the reasons we embarked upon the strategy we did several years ago.
Even though our estimated product cost inflation excluding fuel was approximately 6% for the quarter we were able to increase our penny profit per item in the grocery category.
Mike will say more about how food inflation impacted our gross margins for the quarter.
I do want to note that not every single retailer calculates product cost inflation in the same way.
Kroger's calculation is weighted to take product movement into account so we can get a better measure of what the true effect on the consumer is over time.
We believe 6% accurately reflects what the consumer is in fact experiencing.
Using a calculation that measures inflation at a particular point in time would result in an inflation estimate different than the one we actually calculate.
In looking at unit sales we have seen a continued slowing of the rate of growth of unit movement throughout the year.
When considering different promotional activity and changes in pack sizes some customers are buying we believe our tonnage is essentially flat.
We will continue to pass along product cost increases from suppliers.
At the same time we will confidently invest for the future in pricing people products and the customer shopping experience.
We estimate that we have lowered our customer shopping bill by $2.2 billion per year and our weekly promotions and personalized rewards to loyal households continue to grow customer loyalty in a difficult economic environment.
In the third quarter more customers chose our exclusive items which grew Kroger's corporate brand share and sales more than national brands.
Corporate brands represented approximately 27% of grocery department sales dollars and 35% of the grocery department units sold.
These figures compare with 26% and 34% respectively for the third quarter of last year.
Considering the consistent share growth of Kroger's corporate brand products for several years it is obvious that once after customers try them for the first time they continue to choose them for their great value both in terms of quality and low price points.
Our corporate brand team continues to develop innovative product lines to address unmet customer needs.
During the quarter we launched some great new products for customers looking to change their eating habits including a 99% natural zero-calorie baking sweetener that measures cup for cup like sugar.
In our bakery department Kroger's new no sugar added pies available in apple cherry pumpkin and other delicious flavors are a great option for those on low or no-sugar diet.
We also have good progress to report in labor relations.
Several previously unsettled labor negotiations have resulted in contracts that have been ratified including those in Southern California southeastern Ohio and Charleston West Virginia along with the Teamsters at one of our distribution centers in Washington State.
I'd like to thank our associates and division leadership for their work to reach mutually acceptable agreements.
We are in discussions with the UFCW for Memphis area stores and with the Teamsters for some distribution centers and dairies in the Midwest.
These contracts are in extension while negotiations continue.
As you know our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive cost and compensation packages that provide good wages high-quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
Now Mike will discuss our third quarter results and Kroger's financial strategy in detail.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
As we reported earlier today net earnings for the third quarter totaled $195.9 million or $0.33 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $202 million or $0.32 per diluted share.
FIFO gross margin excluding retail fuel operations decreased 34 basis points.
Food inflation accounted for most of this decrease.
The FIFO gross margin decline was more than offset by a 29-basis point improvement in our OG&amp;A rate excluding fuel and improvements in rent and depreciation of 19 basis points also excluding fuel.
We look at operating margin on a rolling 4 quarters basis because tactical adjustments to the strategy can have a positive or negative impact from one quarter to the next.
On this basis excluding fuel the operating margin expanded by 5 basis points.
This is the third consecutive rolling 4-quarter period with an expanded operating margin.
This calculation of operating profit is on a LIFO basis meaning that the calculation includes the LIFO charge.
During the quarter our estimate of this year's LIFO charge increased $35 million from $150 million to $185 million.
To get LIFO caught up  year-to-date we had an incremental $27 million charge over what we had budgeted in the third quarter.
Excluding the LIFO charge from the calculation our rolling 4 quarters operating profit increased 21 basis points.
Due to the increase in our LIFO estimate we expect the operating profit margin on a LIFO basis to show a slight decline for the year.
But on a FIFO basis it will show a slight increase.
The reduction of 29 basis points in OG&amp;A without fuel demonstrates the leverage of our strong identical food store sales and cost control efforts in the face of rising debit and credit card fees pension and healthcare expenses.
Also as a result of current expected operating performance for the year our incentive plans are estimated to pay off at a higher rate than last year.
Collectively debit and credit card fees pension healthcare and incentive plans have increased 45 basis points with incentive plans being the largest of these.
Kroger's retail fuel operations in the third quarter earned approximately $0.137 per gallon compared to $0.127 per gallon in the same quarter last year.
For the last quarter of the year we expect margins of approximately $0.115 per gallon.
Given the trend in higher credit and debit card fees earnings from fuel were essentially flat compared to last year.
And the cents per gallon margin after debit and credit card fees was also essentially flat.
I'll now update you on our long-term financial strategy.
We are very focused on allocating the substantial cash flow of Kroger's business to reward our shareholders both today and in the future.
Over the last 4 quarters Kroger has returned over $1.8 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
During 2011 Kroger is using cash flow from operations and cash-on-hand to repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders fund capital expenditures and maintain our current debt rating.
During the quarter we leveraged Kroger's strong cash flow to invest $471.2 million to repurchase 21 million shares of stock at an average price of $22.39.
At the end of the third quarter approximately $721 million -- $721.6 million remain under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in September of 2011.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $497 million for the third quarter compared with $484 million in the same period last year.
We expect capital investment for the year to be slightly above $1.9 billion excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
We also saw a strong improvement in the EBITDA return on net operating assets or ERONOA of 19.68% an increase of 108 basis points from a year ago.
Net total debt was $7.7 billion an increase of $476.6 million from a year ago.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio adjusted for the impairment charges in 2010 was 1.89 compared with 1.93 during the same period last year.
As we reported earlier this morning Kroger's increased its fiscal 2011 guidance.
We now expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of 4.5% to 5% for the year.
Previously identical supermarket sales were expected to range from 4% to 5%.
We are also increasing the range of our net earnings guidance to $1.95 to $2 per share -- diluted share for the year.
Previously we expected net earnings in the $1.85 to $1.95 range.
We are in the middle of our business planning process.
Based on what we're seeing today we expect to reach 8% to 10% annual earnings per share growth in 2012 plus a dividend of 1.5% to 2%.
This does not factor in the 53rd week in fiscal 2012.
As you know our long-term growth model was to generate 6% to 8% annual earnings per share growth over a rolling 3- to 5-year time horizon.
We will provide full guidance in March but thought it would be helpful for you to know how we currently see 2012 shaping up.
Now I'll turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
I'd like to conclude by reflecting that when we began our Customer 1st strategy we had to make investments in price and other areas of the shopping experience.
Those choices were an imperative.
And while we still see opportunity to continue these investments today we have the flexibility to pick and choose how and when to do so.
I mentioned at the start of the call that our financial results are solid dependable and predictable especially on a rolling 4-quarter basis.
Looking at Kroger's operating margin on that longer time horizon demonstrates this powerful positioning.
A rolling 4-quarter view is important because we are constantly making tactical decisions about these investments.
Our margin in any one quarter may fluctuate depending on our decision to accelerate or decelerate investments.
But if you look under the hood at our operating margin over the course of a year you'll see that the results reflect the strategic balance we seek between cost savings and investment that we believe are necessary to consistently deliver value to our customers and our shareholders.
I'm very proud of this year.
I'm personally proud of what our associates have achieved.
Kroger is winning in the marketplace and delivering value for our customers associates and shareholders.
We have a great strategy that has worked well in a variety of economic environments.
That gives us the confidence to be bullish on the rest of this year and 2012.
Now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Kroger (sic) [Citigroup].
Research Division</strong> Actually with Citigroup.
So David you talked about the inflation the economy have had a more negative impact than expected and that you've made tactical adjustments.
I don't know if you could maybe enlighten us and expand on those? Well the point really is to look at what's happening with our customers.
And we knew all along in the year that the real issue would be how does the world -- the operating world that our customers find themselves in the macroenvironment that affects everyone how will that affect us.
And what has happened is that the intersection of inflation which means higher prices for the customer and a poor economy which means the customer doesn't have as much money in their pocket.
Those 2 factors together have caused at Kroger and I think elsewhere and many of the CPG companies as retail prices have gone up tonnage the growth in tonnage has declined a bit to where as we've said now as our tonnage last quarter was essentially flat.
And we think that's essentially a sign of our times.
And it's because when customers have to spend more money to get the groceries they need they don't have money to buy more groceries than they were buying before.
So it's hard to keep the business growing in tonnage in that kind of environment.
So if I look at any issue in the quarter to me that's the macro issue that all of us are trying to deal with.
The really good news and the thing I'm most pleased about is that even in the face of that we ended up growing households we ended up growing our business we ended up growing our earnings per share.
And so we're thrilled by that outcome and we're thrilled in that environment that our strategy has produced such solid results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we look down the road what are you hearing from suppliers in terms of cost inflation? How do you think about 2012? I'm going to let Mike comment a little bit on that but we've seen as you know there's a lag between what we see in the commodity markets and what we see in the actual pricing that we receive and then what gets passed on at retail.
And because for several quarters we predicted higher inflation but it didn't happen.
And then when it did happen of course it's been pretty strong inflation for the last several quarters.
So looking forward Mike do you have some comments? Yes.
I -- Deb I think in the first half we would expect inflation to continue close to where it is today.
Keep in mind that we didn't really start to see a huge uptick in inflation until late in the second quarter and it's obviously continued in the third quarter.
It kind of grew throughout the first half of the year.
So we'll be lapping that when we get into 2012.
If you look at basic commodities corn and wheat are down a little bit but still well above the 5-year moving average.
And I don't think there's been enough movement in those to actually think about having price declines.
But I think there could price stabilization when we get to the back half of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just in terms of tonnage growth.
Obviously you guys have done an incredible job.
Just when do you think we'll start to see that pickup if you have -- if you can take out your crystal ball out of your pocket? Well I don't think I have a crystal ball on that.
We do expect given how our performance has been earlier this year that even in this environment we expect to do well.
But the concern I have of course is as customers are pressed and we talked about inflation.
But the other factor that I think is the -- maybe the most important factor is what the economic environment going to look like to our customers.
And that can put a dampening or an accelerating effect on how customers view their future and their own behavior.
So we try to measure behavior.
We try to react to that.
You asked earlier about what kind of adjustments do we make.
Well we look at what consumer behavior looks like and we try to focus on what can we do on behalf of the consumers at this point in time given what they're trying to live with.
I think that's the biggest unknown is what that economy is going to look like.
And so far it's going to stay soft for quite a while.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> David if you could talk a little bit about maybe expand as you look out to 2012 how you see the economic environment particularly since there may be a possibility here that unemployment benefits and the payroll tax cut does not get extended come January 1.
Do you think it's a -- is it possibly a tougher macro in 2012 or about -- maybe it's the same? And then kind of what goes along with that when you think about the 8% to 10% comp earnings growth will the comp be lower next year than this year or do you think that would be close or the same? Well I'll answer the last question first.
I don't think we're going to try to give full guidance today so we're not going to answer that question.
But I will talk a little bit about how we see the environment going forward.
The bottom line in my mind is is that we expect next year at least the foreseeable part of next year to be much like what we've seen this year from an economic point of view.
There are 2 kinds of big factors that I think about in my own thinking on this question.
First what do the facts mean and factually how does the economy behave? And I think everything I've seen suggests that that's going to be slow.
I don't see it as crashing and burning but on the other hand I also don't see it as robust and climbing.
So we see that as relatively flat.
But the other factor that we don't talk a lot about usually gets played out is consumer confidence.
And I think it really is more specifically looked at and what are the events that occur during the year that cause people to feel either good or bad about the world that they operate in which affect their behavior? And consumer behavior and confidence can have a lot to do with whether or not an economy can pick up or not.
And it has a lot to do with how our business does.
So we're very interested in how our consumers are feeling.
They get affected by lots of things.
We talked last quarter about how they had been affected by the debt crisis discussion in Congress and how that got played out in such a wild way in the media.
Well we're expecting a replay of something like that soon.
And that could have a similar kind of effect.
On the other hand there's lots of positive optimistic things out there today and if those get played up in a way that the customers see them and feel good about the world then that part of the economic action actually is an improvement.
Having said all of that that's how I think about it.
I think ultimately we think it's going to be about the same as this year with high variability just like we experienced this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> As a follow-up to that I mean we've had I think you'd agree this year has been remarkably stable in terms of competitive rationality.
People have done the right things not made many stupid mistakes.
I guess in your forecast do you see that continuing or is there a risk that as the macro stays soft that we see some reversion back to more intense promotions and dumb decisions? I can't speak obviously for competitors and wouldn't pretend to.
But my answer from our point of view is yes.
I think it's been a more rational marketplace.
I think it's gradually been a more rational marketplace over the last 10 or 15 years based on what the economic forces are rather than based on emotion.
And I think that everyone seems to be taking steps that make more economic sense.
And certainly we strive to do that at Kroger.
Our whole point of view is to make rational choices that make sense for the long-term success of our business.
And that's why I think you've seen our rational behavior and I think that's probably why you've seen it elsewhere too.
So yes I expect that to continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one final thing.
If you think about the ongoing need to make price investments where do you see the best opportunities to take cost out going forward? And I assume it's in the store.
Is it what -- you may not be specific but as you look at processes is that sort of the biggest opportunity to take stuff out of receiving front end those kind of areas or is it something else? I'll let Rodney specifically comment but let me generally comment by saying that we're interested in taking cost out of places that either don't matter to the customer or perhaps actually improve things for the customer.
And we're also interested in things that can be high dollars so those are often things that are in the stores because you multiply that times 2 500 or it can be in our distribution processes because you multiply that times all the items that go through the system.
Having said that Rodney you might want to add a little more specificity.
Well yes.
Obviously we're not -- we won't be able to give specifics.
But one of the things that we worked awfully hard is to try to get ideas across from the whole organization because we have awful lot of fabulous associates across the whole company.
And then making sure that we could facilitate our process where we execute against those across the company.
And what we've found over time is when you think you've got all the savings you can that you know about smart people come up with other ideas on how to make processes chain improve as you mentioned.
So we feel very confident that we've got a whole litany of lists of ideas to continue to improve the customers' experience and take costs out of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I want to get back to this issue on tonnage.
Your tonnage is relatively flat but it's down almost everywhere else out there and I guess that's because of elasticity and a lot of your competition is showing fairly sizable declines.
Are they okay in this situation where they're seeing negative tonnage? Do they just look at the top line and say "Okay my top line is getting a little bit better so I won't be more promotional?" What's the mindset as tonnage goes to negative at your competition? I don't know about their mindset.
My mindset is that I see the economy has changed.
Customers only have so much money.
And when you take 6% more of their money from higher prices they have 6% less to spend on other things.
And that's not to mention that fuel is a little bit higher this year too which if you haven't filled up the car lately you haven't experienced it.
But you'll find that it takes more money out of your available spending.
And when that happens there's only so much to give.
And when that happens you shouldn't chase.
We can't.
We don't try to chase the customer in that environment.
You can't get them to spend money they don't have.
So we're -- I think we're rational about that and I think that the market is rational about that too.
It does help that the sales are positive for nearly every retailer and even those that aren't they're close to positive.
And that helps because that helps make ends meet.
It helps you pay the bills.
And as long as you can pay the bills then you can continue to work down the path of rational operating behavior which is what I think we have.
Research Division</strong> As we think about next year as inflation let's say it begins to ease in the back of the year tonnage at some point probably starts to come back but my guess is there is some delay in that.
So I guess one do you agree with that? And then two that would mean that IDs just mathematically probably has -- have to at least slow a little bit.
Does that make sense? I'm not going to speculate on how that will end up playing out.
I think that actually will be played out.
In fact we'll know the answer to that when we see the facts.
And partially because if I were to answer that it's starting to try to lock in on guidance for sales next year which I don't plan to do today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually I don't mean to ask you like that.
I guess my real question is that we're in a situation where back half of next year let's say your IDs are up I mean I don't know 3.5% because you've got less inflation rolling through about maybe modestly better tonnage.
As an organization how do you manage your business differently at all based on that decelerating ID? Oh we probably would manage the business a little bit differently but I'd be pleased with a picture that was a growing tonnage like that because it would spell a healthier picture.
But even in this environment where our tonnage is flat we feel we're growing our market share a little not as fast as maybe we were before but that's the environment we're in.
So you can grow.
What we're mostly interested in is winning with households and whether that is winning with households at flat tonnage or winning with households at positive tonnage I probably would prefer positive tonnage.
But on the whole it's still winning.
And we end up having a really bright future if we win in market share.
As you know that's more our formula than not everybody requires market share to be successful.
But our market share really is helpful to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for you there's been a lot of talk about Walmart recently because I guess they've quantified what they're going to do from a pricing standpoint at their analyst meeting.
You seeing anything different there at all? I don't think I'll comment specifically on what we're seeing at Walmart or really any other competitor.
We watch them all very closely as they watch us very closely.
I'll leave that up to you.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
I'd like to talk -- you've mentioned that penny profit was up in the dry grocery category which is really good to hear.
I was wondering if you could talk about whether you see differences in the nature of the categories where you see the penny profit up? Is it that there are some categories that customers will accept the price increase and others they won't? Or is it more across the board? That's a great question Meredith.
The -- as you know if you look at the perishable departments or the fresh departments that is as much driven by what's going on in the competitive environment and how long do you think the inflation is there.
So that you'll see a lot more increase in -- or decline in pennies profit per item that may or may not align with the inflation.
In grocery we see much more predictability and we're seeing predictability so far this year and Drug GM also.
So I would really kind of separate the 2 and we actually -- you see a little bit different behavior in both areas.
But one is really affected as much by the competition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think there was a little bit of a question about CPG but just maybe if you could elaborate a little bit.
You have said all along that you would pass along the increases and they would have to make a decision how they felt about their volume being down or managing their gross margins.
Are you seeing any change at this point? Are they increasing their promotional funding? Are they holding back do you think on any of the increases they're passing through to you? Well the thing that we don't really know about what the CPG is how they've hedged their raw materials.
As a general rule we would see them holding back in terms of what the cost come through versus the inflation of the raw materials.
But in a lot of cases we would assume that they've hedged that so they probably haven't had the cost increase the same as what you would read in the marketplace.
So as a general rule we would see lagging there.
Not necessarily a lot on promotion no different than a year ago.
You'll constantly see somebody feel like they're losing share a little bit and they'll come and be more aggressive with promotion dollars.
They like a specific promotion those kinds of things but nothing really not huge change there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'd just like to ask you about your labor negotiations.
I just wondered if there are any themes that you can draw from all of the negotiations you've done say in the last 12 months.
Healthcare clearly is an issue.
Pension is an issue.
But sort of how is it working out? And are there concessions being made on the wages to get keep healthcare and pension benefits? In terms of -- if you look broadly the 2 that you raised obviously every negotiation healthcare and pension is a very critical part of that negotiation.
If you look at wages wage increases are not as much as what a lot of the increase ends up going in pension and healthcare where some -- where our associates receive versus the cash wage.
But as a general rule our cash wage increase also goes up when you look at in the basket.
Now our associates are working together with us on changes in work rules.
As we've talked about before constantly changing processes everything else so that you try to balance all those things out.
And so far we feel pretty good that we've been able to have negotiations where we have competitive costs but at the same time we have an excellent benefit package and solid wages versus the market.
So far we feel good about where we've ended up.
Now that road of getting there isn't always so smooth as what I just outlined.
Your next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
If you could just touch on the produce topic in a bit more detail.
I think we all know the dry food prices are probably going up next year.
But on the perishable side of things is there any cost release coming there in your view over the next 3 to 6 months period? Yes.
I mean if you look at the perishables if you look at like produce it's really hard to predict because it really depends on what kind of growing seasons do you have both in Mexico and California and Florida.
So today we don't see anything unusual but you can have a freeze tomorrow that changes that comment.
So it's really hard to say there.
On meat we would expect to continue to see inflation because of the things that Mike talked about.
If you look at like corn especially the -- it's lower than what it was but still when you look at year-on-year it's a tremendous increase.
So we would expect in meat to just continue to see some of those cost pressures there.
Dairy probably not quite as inflationary as it was but that's also highly volatile based on how the weather is and how much the supply of milk is.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Otway in for Scott.
Just I guess stepping back a little bit.
Last quarter -- I know you've touched upon this probably a little bit but last quarter you seemed a bit more cautious in pulling forward some of the price investment.
Now with the raised guidance it appears there's some more optimism.
And just kind of want to get a sense for what may have changed between the third quarter and the second quarter and what may be causing that optimism? I think if anything changed I don't really think a lot changed.
But if anything changed in my mind it's we've seen more of the environment.
What we saw looking down the road last quarter was an environment that was increasingly looking difficult for the consumer.
And the question was how well would we be able to get through that with higher prices and would the customers stay with us? And the fact that we have grown households in that environment loyal households have grown at a good clip compared to total.
But total is up as well but loyals are the ones we're most interested in.
The fact that we've been able to do that and to make ends meet really well suggests to us that in this environment we can be successful.
And so we're very pleased and proud with what we accomplished and it helps to be able to look back now and say "Okay we made it through that pretty well.
We can work in an environment like this and make it successful." So I think if there's anything about attitude that's how my attitude shifted.
We went from the unknown to the known.
I'd just add a couple of comments to David's comments.
Part of the optimism I would say is more -- is driven by some of the things we did in the second quarter and how the customers reacted to that.
The other thing is our strong free cash flow we've been able to buy back more shares than what we had originally planned to do.
And that obviously helps earnings going forward too.
So it's really both of those things together.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just a small housekeeping item on the tax rate.
It was a little lower than I think the kind of 36.5% guidance in the back half and I know there's always moving parts but any color there? I would say there is nothing -- no one big item would have caused it to be slightly different.
And we gave guidance for what to expect for the year in the 8-K as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about your financial policy and balance sheet if I may.
You may have heard that one of your competitors started down the path of a mini leveraged recap yesterday and as a result its credit rating was downgraded.
That company's leverage is going up on a net debt-to-EBITDA basis while yours is flat to down.
And Mike I think early on the call you mentioned an objective of maintaining your debt rating.
So with that backdrop.
I wanted to know can you provide updated thoughts on how you plan to allocate capital in the near term and really what governs your share buyback appetite? Yes good question Todd.
As I've said in the prepared remarks we do expect to continue to use our free cash flow and balance the use of that between buying in shares paying the dividend strong capital expenditure program and maintaining our current BBB flat credit rating.
We like to have the access to the A2/P2 commercial paper market.
It's very deep and very liquid and very attractive rates to allow us to finance our needs on an overnight basis when we have those needs.
And we will continue to expect to manage our net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio to stay under 2x which we think is a good proxy for the way the rating agencies calculate our leverage.
We think if we use that target it transfers into the leverage ratio that the rating agencies will be comfortable giving us a BBB flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess also you have an $850 million in debt maturing in the first half of 2012.
Can we expect you to refinance most or all of that closer to the time of maturity? Yes about half of that comes due in April and the other half in June.
And we would expect to at this point to refinance that sometime early next year.
We've already as you may have seen in our second quarter 10-Q entered into a series of interest rate of forward-starting swaps to lock in some of the interest rates as some of the 10-year and -- 10- and 30-year treasury.
Those days where they have taken a dip we've been active on locking in some of those in a forward-starting swap basis to take some of our exposure to rates between now and then off the table.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about customers buying smaller pack sizes seeing that across categories.
But Heinz talked a couple of weeks ago they wanted to introduce a greater number of these packages but they were a little bit late versus their own expectations in doing so.
Is this something you're experiencing that you want to fill your shelves with more of these reduced size items maybe can't get them yet from manufacturers? Or are you happy with what you're receiving? And I guess along this line can you help us understand a bit better in which categories consumers are looking for these smaller sizes whether or not maybe where the strategy is effective or it's less so? Just hoping to get some color because it is a little bit of a sea change in how consumers are shopping.
Well actually what we're seeing is actually people shifting pack sizes not just to smaller but also to larger depending on the item and the situation.
So it's really customer-specific and customer-need specific.
Rodney you may have some comments to the rest of the question though.
Yes.
Well in terms of specifics every category is different.
So literally you'd have to go through a hundred different categories for the answer.
Whether we pick up an item or not as you know is really based on our belief in what customers tell us is important to them.
So if they come up with something that we think the customer would want we'll add it.
If they don't we won't.
If you look in our own corporate brand categories you'll find some items we've moved to smaller packs.
Other items we've actually moved to bigger packs.
And it really -- it is category-specific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you've had the lead in consumer insights for years in grocery and obviously you do a great job with that.
Some of your competitors though have spoken lately about getting better at this.
So I'm just curious if you're seeing anything interesting in the marketplace in terms of other supermarkets benefiting more from loyalty cards or personal e-mails than they previously did anything like that? I know you don't have specific insights but maybe how it's affecting you if at all or maybe nothing's changed as for as you can tell? Everybody wants to get better than they are at this as we do and we expect to improve just as they're expecting to improve.
I don't think I'll speculate on what their success has been.
The only other thing Dave I would add is that we're working really hard to make sure that we have that next generation of what's being done.
We started doing some personalized offers and pricing 4 or 5 years ago.
There's all kinds of things we're doing that's really the next version of that and in making it even better for our customers.
So we're not standing still either and we've always assumed our competitors will keep getting better.
Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
I'd like to ask a little bit about your pharmacy operations how that's been tracking and are you happy with it? And are you doing anything there to tie it into the customer loyalty strategies? If you look at pharmacy we're just delighted with our trend and where we are.
Obviously there's a lot of things going on in the marketplace at the moment.
In terms of using loyalty that's something that yes we are working hard on improving how to use loyalty data for the benefit of our customers.
They are just like we are in every department.
One other thing that I'm sure you know if you look at -- as you look out to 2012 there's a lot of major drugs that will be moving to generics that will affect sales in that department.
But gross profit rate will be helpful.
But there's a lot of change going on right now in pharmacy as you know.
We're very pleased with the quarter that we had and the trend that we're on.
You do any gas rewards tied to the pharmacy? I don't recall but I think you do.
That would be correct.
We do.
Get your prescription refilled at Kroger and you can see how it works.
Open some stores here Dave.
How about gasoline profitability just looking at that compared to a year ago and the most recent quarter? Yes if you look at gasoline profitability it was the dollars were essentially exactly flat so it didn't help that it didn't hurt the quarter on a year-on-year basis.
The reported cents per gallon margin that we talked about was up.
But when you reduce that margin for the debit and credit card fees because they go up as the retails go up that margin was essentially flat.
And finally what did Thanksgiving business tell you about the customer? Well let me give you sort of an update just through the quarter the fourth quarter.
We have what 3.5 weeks I think in this quarter behind us and our identical sales have been consistent with where they were in the third quarter.
And we would say Thanksgiving was at least that good.
We were very pleased at the Thanksgiving holiday because Thanksgiving is embedded in those numbers.
But we're pleased.
I don't think I can give you much more details than that but that will give you a sense that the quarter's starting out certainly in the right direction.
Your next question comes from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital Markets.
First thing just on your next year's guidance.
The 8% to 10% excluding the extra week just curious what's driving the higher rate because you've obviously been fairly committed to the 6% to 8% rate for a while? And then I guess the second part of that is can you maybe just remind us what the impact on -- EPS impact was from the extra week last time you had a 53-week year? Part of the reason that we think next year will be a little bit higher we think the base operations will perform in a similar fashion to this year.
But it's really the benefit of the higher share buyback this year and the carryover effect of that next year.
You don't only get the benefit that you can buy the shares you get some next year and it's recognition of that.
Relative to the extra week we will give you guidance on what we think the extra week is worth in March because I don't want to go back to what it was last time because every year is different.
We have to look at which week the Super Bowl falls in and things like that before you really do it.
And I frankly am not that far into the 53rd week yet.
Okay that's fair.
And then I know you're trying to veer us away from this but can you talk -- can you give us the selling gross margin trends in the quarter? Well we're not going to give the specific number but it was gently improved from where we were last quarter is about all I guess we'd say at this point.
Okay.
And then looking at your sales trends I guess throughout the quarter and then now into the first few weeks of this quarter you were kind of running -- I mean you said you're kind of running in line with your second quarter results for the first few weeks of the third quarter so that was kind of a 5-3 type of number.
Can you talk about this trend throughout the quarter? And then it would seem that at least when you look at the 2-year trend for the first 3.5 weeks of the fourth quarter your ID has reaccelerated.
So maybe just us a little color there? Well first let me go back to the selling gross just for a second to make sure I said that in a way that's understood.
When I said it's slightly improved from last quarter what I meant was as you would look at it the amount of the investment we made last quarter and selling gross in the second quarter it was a little less investment in the third quarter.
Right that is what I figured.
Okay.
I just want to make sure I explained it right.
As for sales trends for the quarter it was -- the quarter itself was basically consistent.
Of course we have several ups and downs but I don't -- I can't see a pattern that I think would be useful to describe here.
And in what I said about Thanksgiving Thanksgiving was at least as good as where the trends were but which meant it would have been a good week a good solid week.
But I wouldn't characterize it as noticeably higher than say the trend in the third quarter.
So I'd say the fourth quarter started out pretty much like the third quarter's average was is what I meant to say.
I hope that's what I said.
Okay that makes sense.
And then on the operating expenses this quarter they seemed fairly encouraging.
Anything to point to there and what was driving that? Yes they were encouraging and even more encouraging when you realize the -- what was it 45 basis points that we had to overcome on the incentive plan the healthcare the pension and credit and debit card fees that made it even a stronger result.
Nothing like strong sales to help that's really important.
But perhaps the most important is the attitude of the whole organization.
Our associates are really focused on how they can reduce cost because they recognize and that's why we repeat so often what our business strategy is.
They recognize that the objective of lower costs is to fund investments in things that matter to the customer which goes to produce more jobs for our employees increased hours we're running on average in our stores more hours per week used in labor this year than we used last year for the same time period.
And that's a really positive trend.
And that's because we're finding places to save in order to invest.
So I think that attitude the empowerment of our associates has probably driven that more than almost anything else.
Rodney anything to add to that? Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on an earlier question.
I'm not asking here about Walmart or any other competitors pricing or execution in the  marketplace.
I'm asking specifically here about expansion plans and total square footage dedicated to your food retailing coming into your territories.
It seems like several alternate retailers hard discounters you name it are expanding.
It seems like consumer that's a little bit more constrained is getting more creative about the places where they shop particularly at the low end and others are expanding assortments.
And just wondering if you did any thinking about that and if you could put a number on over the past year or the past couple of years how much more capacity if you will has come into your markets and whether that's accelerating or decelerating right now? We won't be putting a number on it but I'll just tell you these 2 background points that may be helpful for your thinking about this.
First one of the trends that we saw 10 years ago and it's certainly clear today is the fragmenting of where people buy food.
It's no longer -- and it hasn't been for many years now no longer just in supermarkets.
And if you look at where food is purchased you can see that is obvious.
And so that trend continues and that plays into a little of what you're describing.
And second is that we see in every market and have seen this in every year changes that are always happening.
It's a dynamic kind of business.
And we look at it on a local market basis and what's happening in each market and we try to react in those markets.
And so certainly you can describe markets where what you're saying is happening.
But you can also describe markets where that's not happening.
And so I would have to say that every year is different every market is different.
Rodney do you want to add to that? Yes the only thing I would add is we're finding in some situations the competitors when they open up our estimates would show they take a lot more volume from their own stores than what we would have necessarily seen in the past.
And there is a point where there's a certain amount of customers like to shop a certain store or format.
But it's not 100% of customers want to shop a certain type of store.
So we are seeing that.
The other thing we're also seeing is competitors continue to fall out too.
It's just the profile of those is not high as the ones that people open up.
Research Division</strong> What do you think -- just as a follow-up what do you think needs to happen for that to slow down or stop? I mean it seems like everybody in the industry is -- I don't think anyone in the industry is saying it's great out there.
Even some of the faster-growing small and limited assortment players so you've -- what do you think needs to happen to convince people or make them unable or unwilling to grow their commitment to compete with established players like yourself? Well I think we've said before it's a rational market place.
And if you were to look at just at Kroger for instance what drives our thinking is what happens with the actual results.
And so the question you're asking is if the results at the return on capital and assets doesn't end up paying the bill in your experience then you change your course.
So I think what you see over -- if you'd go over a 10- or 20-year period of time most retailers' behavior change is based on what they're actual experiences have been.
Now they sometimes have to go learn that lesson the hard way by getting in the market and discovering that hey this doesn't work or that didn't work.
But they eventually all of us learn those lessons and change our behavior when that happens.
We have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Given the tonnage was up a little in Q2 and flat in this quarter and the gross margin got better is it fair to take away from that that the penny profit per item not only was positive but was -- the rate was better this quarter than last quarter? And if so what's driving that? Is that pricing being passed through into the market? There's rationality and just sort of retail pricing market-wide catching up to the previously -- the inflation in product costs? Or is it just something Kroger rationing back because from -- in Q3 from Q2? Yes.
Penny profit per item would be slightly higher in the third quarter than the second quarter.
As Dave mentioned before we certainly see the market being very rational out there.
Tomorrow that could change.
But so far what we're seeing is very rational.
I wouldn't say it's so much of a Kroger change as -- it's the whole market needing to continue to make sure that the costs we get we go ahead and pass that through.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So then when I look at the guidance for the year you bumped up the high end of earnings per share to $2 by $0.05 but you didn't take up the high end of same-store sales.
So staying on the same theme unless there's something going on in your cost structure or what have you and you -- it would seem to me it's more about the marketplace rationality and given the consumer is not in great shape nevertheless is still accepting some further price increases and that it's fair to say retail pricing market-wide is to some extent still catch -- doing a better job of catching up to the inflation in product pricing.
I think it is.
I think that's true really across the market that we see generally speaking prices are following the cost increases.
Research Division</strong> And am I right that -- and this is the last follow-up that that's essentially mainly what's embedded in the way the guidance increase shaped up? I think Andy it's just a matter of we now know what third quarter was.
Our guidance for the third quarter was we've expected it to be one of our softer quarters of the year because of the tax benefit last year.
We actually were able to post a very strong third quarter.
And where you look -- you look at where we are year-to-date of $1.50 and what we think we can generate in the fourth quarter given how we performed so far this year that's your -- just where the world shakes out.
You're right we didn't raise the high end of our ID sales guidance but starting out at 5% that's a pretty strong trend and it's delivered the $1.50 so far this year and we expect it to be able to continue to deliver for the balance of the year.
Thank you.
And so before we end the call today I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates who are listening in today.
We encourage them to listen.
You may recall that in November Kroger was named the most generous company in America by Forbes Magazine.
This is a great honor for our company and each of you is responsible for having made it happen.
Thank you for caring so much about the communities that -- in which we live and work.
Wherever we operate our associates seek out ways to support the local charities and organizations that matter most to them and to our customers.
Looking at cash alone for example in 2010 Kroger donated $64 million to charitable initiatives.
Nomination of corporate and retail division contributions our community rewards program and funds from vendors in our "Bringing Hope to the Table" and "Giving Hope a Hand" campaigns.
That figure is much higher when you add in the food and product we donate to local communities.
It's closer to $200 million for 2010.
On the whole Kroger donates the equivalent of 125  meals a year to local food banks -- 125 million meals to the local food banks.
Even more impressive is your personal commitment and donation of your time as volunteers to support our neighbors in need.
Whether you organize a local fund raising event volunteer at a food bank or help deliver holiday meals to families you make a difference.
So special thanks to all of you.
In today's environment the role we are playing in our communities is more important than perhaps ever before.
We just talked about the stress that so many Americans are under and that includes many of our associates.
Now is the time of the year they need our help most.
Finally we thank our associates who work so hard throughout the holidays to keep our stores open and stocked for our customers.
I hope each of you also celebrate the season with your family and friends.
As one of our associates added to the blog this week as retailers especially at holiday time many of us made Kroger a part of our family.
It's true for many of you as it is for me.
So it is personal for me to say to each of you individually Merry Christmas Happy Holidays.
That completes the call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
We thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 The Kroger Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Fab and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Fab.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our fourth quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's fourth quarter and full year 2011 results are Rodney McMullen our company President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We are very pleased with Kroger's outstanding performance in fiscal year 2011 and strong fourth quarter financial results.
That we were able to raise earnings per share and identical sales guidance through the year and achieve those higher results demonstrates the strength of our business strategy and momentum for a strong 2012.
Kroger's strong performance rewarded shareholders in 2011.
We delivered adjusted earnings of $2 per diluted share a 15% increase in earnings over 2010.
We hit the high end of guidance despite a much higher LIFO charge.
We increased our quarterly dividend payment by almost 10% and we implemented an aggressive stock buyback program using Kroger's strong free cash flow to repurchase 67 million shares.
Later Rodney and Mike will provide more details on our full year performance.
I'd like to highlight several of the commitments that our teams successfully delivered on in 2011.
Kroger increased identical supermarket sales.
We grew market share.
We effectively used free cash flow to reward shareholders and invested wisely to continue to win customer loyalty.
Importantly we also balanced cost reductions with investments in our Customer 1st strategy to increase FIFO operating margin for the year.
Kroger is off to a healthy start for the year ahead and we expect earnings per share growth in 2012 to exceed our business model.
Kroger had strong performance in the fourth quarter.
Identical supermarket sales for the quarter increased 4.9% excluding fuel.
More loyal and total households are shopping with us and identical sales are up among both groups.
This consistent sales performance contributed to Kroger's market share gains in fiscal 2011.
And we achieved the high end of growth estimates for both earnings per share and identical sales growth.
Our operating performance was broad-based and consistent across the company.
Every operating division achieved positive identical sales for the quarter and every supermarket department achieved positive identical sales.
Our natural food pharmacy produce and deli departments posted the strongest results.
I'm very proud of our associates for bringing customer -- the Customer 1st strategy to life for our customers.
Our relentless focus on our 4 keys our people prices products and shopping experience is why Kroger has achieved an industry-leading 33 consecutive quarters of positive identical supermarket sales results.
Our associates work to please and delight our shoppers inspires customer loyalty which grows our business and generates shareholder returns.
Simply put we put our Customer 1st -- when we put our customers first shareholders win.
Well as we look to 2012 we expect the external environment to be a little better than 2011.
All of the data we're seeing suggests the overall economy and customer sentiment are improving.
Both give us reason to be optimistic about the year ahead.
We're also mindful that consumer sentiment is fragile.
And as we've seen over the last few years it can be affected by external factors such as rising gas prices and geopolitical issues.
So we will continue to carefully monitor the pace of economic recovery higher gas prices and the slowing of the rate of inflation.
And while these factors will influence all retailers our success will come from making tactical adjustments as needed throughout the year just as we did throughout 2011.
Rodney will now offer insight into Kroger's strong business trends in the fourth quarter and 2011 market share statistics.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Our focus on building loyal customer base continues to increase sales and reward shareholders.
Today close to 50% of all U.S.
households carry one of our loyalty cards.
That percentage obviously is much higher in the markets where we operate.
One of the ways we create value for our customers is by leveraging scale and position as a share leader in most of the markets in which we operate.
Even with Kroger's deep market penetration we have a tremendous opportunity to increase incremental spending among our loyal customers who on average spend about $0.50 of every food dollar with Kroger.
Kroger's partnership with dunnhumby is another powerful way we build our loyal household base.
The unique customer insights gained from our loyalty data help us reward our most loyal customers with highly relevant personalized offers for the products they like and buy regularly.
In the fourth quarter the number of loyal households shopping with us increased as did the total number of households.
Loyal household unit purchases and price per unit sold were both up in the fourth quarter compared to the same time last year as well.
While our loyal customers are buying fewer items each trip they are buying more on a monthly basis.
A key indicator that our loyal customer strategy is working is that our identical sales growth among loyal households outpaced the growth for total households.
For the full year our number of loyal households continued to increase as did the number of their visits.
Total household shopping at our stores also increased year-over-year.
We still anticipate inflation in 2012 but we expect to end the year with a rate of inflation lower than at the beginning of the year.
The increase in food costs moderated slightly in the fourth quarter with year-over-year product cost inflation of approximately 5.4% excluding retail fuel.
Higher prices have taken a toll on all customers but our very price-sensitive customers continue to suffer disproportionately.
Most departments experienced inflation during the quarter.
The produce department ran counter to this trend in the fourth quarter experiencing deflation.
We are passing along product cost increases from national brand suppliers and plan to continue to do so.
At the same time we slightly increased our penny profit per item in the grocery category in the fourth quarter versus the prior year.
As always our popular corporate brand products continue to offer customers thousands of quality affordable choices to fit into any budget.
Looking at unit sales.
Similar to the third quarter tonnage was essentially flat and slightly improving as we ended this year.
We expect to see improving trends in tonnage growth as the economic conditions improve and inflation moderates.
While the industry as a whole experienced the effects of consumer caution and higher food prices Kroger performed exceptionally well by staying relevant and providing value when and where customers needed it most.
For example when we saw customers under pressure in the second quarter we accelerated investments to alleviate some of that pressure.
Even as inflation forced shoppers to be more budget-conscious our customers continued to experience Kroger's unique value proposition a convenient and superior shopping experience low prices and with hot weekly promotions personalized rewards developed through our dunnhumby partnership and our popular Fuel Points savings program.
That collection of benefits teamed with our high-quality competitively priced corporate brand offering positions Kroger to win in the marketplace today while investing for the future.
Kroger's strong corporate brands continued to gain share in the fourth quarter.
Corporate brands represented approximately 27% of the grocery department sales dollars and 35% of the grocery department units sold.
Corporate brand sales dollars were up more than national brand sales dollars for the quarter as well.
As Dave said one of our fastest growing departments is natural foods.
Our customers told us they want organic and natural products that are easily identified and affordable.
So we launched our new Simple Truth Natural and Simple Truth Organic brands in November focusing first on milk and eggs with plans to expand into other categories throughout 2012.
Another successful growth category for corporate brands is yogurt.
We've leveraged our manufacturing competitive advantage to accelerate the growth of our corporate brand Greek yogurts.
Greek yogurt sales have doubled in each of the last 3 years with Kroger's offering outpacing the category in unit and dollar growth.
Now turning to market share for 2011.
We look at market share the way customers look at it where they spend their money.
According to Nielsen Homescan data Kroger's overall share of products we sell in the markets where we operate grew approximately 50 basis points during fiscal 2011.
This data also indicates that our share increased in 13 of the 19 marketing areas outlined by the Nielsen report and declined in 6 areas.
Walmart Supercenters are our primary competitor in 17 of the 19 marketing areas outlined by the Nielsen report.
Kroger's overall product sales in those 17 markets grew approximately 40 basis points during fiscal 2011.
This Nielsen Homescan data is generated by customers who self-report their grocery purchases to Nielsen.
This includes all retail outlets that sell the same products that we do.
Next I'd like to give you an update on labor relations.
As you realized our associates play a big part in building customer loyalty.
Kroger's commitment to our associates include our dedication to safety significant investments in training solid wages and good-quality affordable health care.
We have to deliver this in ways that allow us to operate competitively with the nonunion retailers in each of the markets that we serve.
Kroger financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs.
Cooperation between Kroger and the local unions that represent many of our associates is essential.
We have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitability will help us create more jobs and career opportunities for all of our associates.
We are pleased that our associates ratified a master agreement with the Teamsters covering 3 distribution centers and 2 dairies.
Currently negotiations are under way with the UFCW for store associates in Memphis and Las Vegas.
In 2012 we had labor contracts expiring in Dayton and Columbus Ohio; Indianapolis; Louisville; Nashville; Phoenix and Portland.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's 2011 financial results and our 2012 guidance.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Including the effect of the UFCW pension plan consolidation Kroger reported a net loss for the fourth quarter that totaled $306.9 million or $0.54 per diluted share.
Excluding the effect of the pension consolidation adjusted earnings for the quarter were $283.8 million or $0.50 per diluted share.
It is important to keep in mind LIFO was $31 million or $0.03 per diluted share higher than we expected at the beginning of the quarter.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $278.8 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
FIFO gross margin as reported was 21.13% of sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal -- of the year.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 47 basis points from the same period last year.
As I said earlier our LIFO charge was higher than expected totaling $73.4 million.
This compares to $18.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Excluding retail fuel operations and the pension consolidation our OG&amp;A including rent and depreciation declined 21 basis points.
OG&amp;A declined 8 basis points rent declined 3 basis points and depreciation declined 10 basis points.
Identifying and executing sustainable operating cost reductions allows us to invest in all 4 elements of our Customer 1st strategy: our great people our product offering our customer shopping experience and lower prices for our customers.
Before I move on to discuss Kroger's full year 2011 results I'll share some data on our retail fuel operations.
In the fourth quarter Kroger's retail fuel operation has generated identical gallon growth.
These outlets earned approximately $0.124 per gallon compared to $0.102 in the final quarter of fiscal 2010.
This part of our business benefited Kroger's year-over-year net earnings per share increase for the fourth quarter by $0.02.
For the full year the cents per gallon fuel margin was roughly $0.139 in 2011 compared with $0.122 in 2010.
Turning now to Kroger's full year fiscal results for 2011 and excluding the effect of the pension consolidation earnings for 2011 were $1.2 billion or $2 per diluted share.
Including the effect of the pension consolidation fiscal year 2011 earnings were $602.1 million or $1.01 per diluted share.
Full year net earnings in the prior year were $1.74 per diluted share.
Our original earnings guidance -- or our original earnings per diluted share guidance for the year was $1.80 to $1.92.
This contemplated a LIFO charge of $50 million to $75 million.
As the year progressed we ultimately revised our EPS expectations to $1.95 to $2 even with the LIFO charge at the time that was expected to be $185.5 -- $185 million.
That we hit the high end of our increased earning expectations with a full year LIFO charge of $216 million speaks loudly to Kroger's strong underlying performance.
Excluding fuel and the pension consolidation FIFO operating margin increased by 5 basis points.
This is the fourth consecutive rolling 4-quarter period with an expanded operating margin.
Now I'll provide a little color on the effect of the pension consolidation.
The charge totaled $590.7 million after tax.
This affected the fourth quarter by $1.04 per diluted share and the full year by $0.99 per diluted share.
The difference is due to having fewer shares outstanding in the quarter versus the year.
The charge is higher than the $0.73 per diluted share we discussed in December.
Our commitment under the agreement is to fund the full December 31 2011 underfunded balance.
The amount we discussed in December only addressed the cash contribution we made.
For multi-employer pension plans cash contributions and expense are usually the same.
However since we have a contractual obligation to fund a specific amount we need to expense that incremental commitment.
We have committed to fund the remaining obligation by the end of 2018.
At the time it is funded no additional expense will be incurred.
We met our additional -- we made our initial funding of $650 million on January 20 2012 $50 million of which was attributed to 2012 plan year contributions.
Under Kroger's share repurchase program during fiscal 2011 we invested $1.5 billion to repurchase 66.5 million shares of Kroger stock at an average price of $23.24 per share.
Since the end of the fourth quarter and through the close of the market yesterday Kroger has $379 million remaining under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in September of 2011.
We focus on identical sales growth excluding fuel because it is the best measure of performance to let us know that we are delivering for both our customers and shareholders.
33 quarters of consistent identical sales growth tells us that our Customer 1st strategy continues to connect meaningfully with our customers.
That connection enhances customer loyalty and grows market share which increases earnings and generates free cash flow that reward our shareholders.
Customer 1st drives shareholder returns.
Kroger's business model is structured to produce annual earnings per share growth averaging 6% to 8% plus a dividend of 1.5% to 2% for a total shareholder return of approximately 8% to 10%.
We expect this total shareholder return to compare favorably to the S&amp;P 500 over a rolling 3- to 5-year time horizon.
Annual earnings per share growth for fiscal 2012 will be higher than this due to a combination of the benefit of the 53rd week a lower expected LIFO charge our ability to aggressively repurchase stock during 2011 and benefits from the pension consolidation.
Now I would like to outline our specific growth objectives for fiscal 2012.
For the full year we anticipate identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 3% to 3.5%.
This guidance contemplates the effect of several prescription drugs coming off patent during the year which will reduce sales.
As Rodney said we expect units to increase if inflation moderates so this should offset any effect of lower inflation.
Full year net earnings are expected to range from $2.28 to $2.38 per diluted share.
This guidance assumes the benefit of the extra week lower LIFO the benefit of our stock buyback program during 2011 the benefit of our pension plan consolidation and some benefit from  Express Script transfers.
Kroger's quarterly dividend enhances total shareholder return by approximately 1.5% to 2%.
I'd like to provide some additional insight on our identical sales and earnings per share expectations on a quarterly basis as well.
For earnings per share we expect the first quarter to pose the biggest challenge.
Last year's first quarter presents a tough comparison and the expected lower LIFO charge will not affect year-over-year comparisons until later in the fiscal year.
Conversely we expect identical sales to start the year stronger and trend down as prescription drugs come off patent.
The generic prescriptions which generate higher gross profit rates along with the benefit of expected lower LIFO as the year progresses will cause stronger earnings per share growth in the third and fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter will also benefit from the 53rd week.
As a result we expect earnings per share growth in the first quarter to be flat to slightly positive a growth rate in quarter 2 that is in line with our business model and a strong performance in the third and fourth quarters.
We expect Kroger's full year FIFO operating margin rate in 2012 excluding fuel to expand slightly compared to fiscal 2011 results.
We expect to expand Kroger's nonfuel operating margin rate over time and it remains our goal to do so.
We expect our full year LIFO charge to range between $140 million and $190 million.
During fiscal 2012 Kroger plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain its current debt rating.
We expect capital expenditures to be in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range for the year.
This morning we filed an 8-K summarizing the guidance and financial strategy that I just discussed along with some additional items including pension contributions and expense and our tax rate.
Now I will turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
I am very proud of our associates for delivering such outstanding results in 2011.
Our consistent performance is one of the reasons that Kroger has created more than 29 000 jobs in the past 5 years.
Kroger is rewarding shareholders and we are looking forward to another year of consistent industry-leading performance and growth.
We now look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things interrelated.
If you look at Mike the details you gave quarter-to-quarter to what degree does that bake in anything specific with regard to moving around programs promotions et cetera? And I'm wondering because you talked about the second quarter last year and some of that pressure that consumers were under was fuel-related how do you guys look at the current run-up in gas and where we might be in the spring? And is there a need to do something more this year to offset that new pressure on the consumer? So have you built that in explicitly do you think that's something that may have to happen? Well as we've begun the year we certainly have a plan laid out of how we expect to invest in the elements of our Customer 1st strategy and it does contemplate what we see out there.
But as we said in the prepared comments we did make tactical adjustments throughout 2011 to react to the world around us and we would expect to continue to do that in 2012 as well.
And I think it proved out beneficial for everybody in 2011 given our results.
And those tactical changes -- John this is Rodney won't necessarily be the same every year.
And so there wouldn't necessarily -- just because of what we did last year doesn't mean we'll do the same thing this year.
And it really depends on what our insights tell us that is important to our customers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think the customer will be under less pressure for whatever reason? Let's say gas is $4 $4.25 Memorial Day less pressure this year than last year because the macro's better? Or same pressure more pressure what do you think? Well John those are of course all the right factors.
And how they weigh out is going to be hard to judge.
Certainly on the plus side the economy is clearly improving.
And except for the very price-sensitive customers which Rodney mentioned are still suffering disproportionately otherwise it's holding up quite well and we're very pleased with that.
And customer sentiment which is also important in how people feel about things is also improving.
Those are both good signs.
So even with higher gas prices it's possible that those factors end up overweighing that.
And as you know there are some pluses of higher gas prices for us one is our gas promotion has a good effect.
And the other is that a lot of our stores are located within a couple of miles of where customers live and that becomes a very convenient place for them to shop when prices get high.
So it's not like it's all bad news.
There are certainly some bad news with it because it's less money in their pocket.
But on the whole we remain optimistic.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just as a follow-up to that is I don't know what inflation number -- it sounds like it might be like a mid-3s number or something like that that's baked into your LIFO charge.
But is that right? And then secondly obviously if it comes down in the back half of the year you'll end up with some significant adjustments in the second half.
Just talk about just tactically if LIFO ends up being $50 million $70 million some large number lower than you think can that be effectively reinvested in the business or it's hard to do that effective -- productively? Well a couple of things on LIFO.
I think I've proved my inability to project LIFO throughout the year this year.
And it's a very difficult thing to do.
The other thing John to keep in mind is LIFO is a noncash charge and it doesn't use cash or create cash when I book that charge.
So if it goes up or down it really doesn't affect my ability to have money to invest to reward our customers.
Does it affect earnings per share? Absolutely but it really doesn't give me any incremental dollars to invest somewhere else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last thing.
The 6 markets where you lost share or didn't gain share I guess I assume that was not a material loss of share.
And was that because you didn't comp well or because some competitors may have comped particularly well for whatever reason? Yes.
Well when you look at those 6 markets it's extremely modest.
But a 0.1 is a 0.1 because we do take it literal in terms of what the report says.
So it's not necessarily a reflection because it could actually be rounding -- but the numbers are what they are.
In every market we're very pleased with our identicals.
And as Dave said our identicals for the quarter were very broad-based across the whole country and very broad-based across all departments.
And we felt very good about where we are overall.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In the last couple of months Nielsen data food manufacturers some of your competitors they've pointed to an accelerated channel shift out of traditional into some alternatives.
And your numbers seem to be bucking this trend.
I know you touched on how you did this and I do appreciate that color.
Just one follow-up.
In your mind are you avoiding the loss of customers that some other supermarkets have seen across-the-board? Or maybe are you losing some customers in the bottom end? As they go to some limited assortment channels maybe you're making that up on the top end as you gain from some consumers finding your value proposition more attractive? I'm just hoping you can sort of add a little bit more color as to how you were able impressively frankly to do this when some of your competitors have not.
Well let me ask the question slightly differently.
We think of market share -- and we've thought about this for years now I'd say 15 years at least maybe 20.
Instead of looking at our traditional supermarkets we look at the pie as being a lot bigger than that.
We were looking as Rodney said where our customers spend their money.
And because we look at it that way our battle has been for a market share of that bigger pie.
And that attitude that viewpoint has caused us to address it I think differently than some of the other traditional supermarket operators.
There are some out there who have done it maybe similar in their thinking but our objective is to solve what the customer needs solved and not to solve maybe what is a traditional supermarket equation.
And that line of thinking actually has led us down this path of Customer 1st.
We've talked a lot about it and it sounds more like marketing words but actually we genuinely mean it.
We look at the 4 elements of Customer 1st.
We invest in those in the ways that we believe are meaningful to our customers.
We save money in places that don't matter to the customer and reinvest it in the places that do.
And I think it's that approach that has created the results that you described.
I would agree with your viewpoint we think we have not suffered the same channel changes that others have but we've had to live in the same channel changes that others have had to live with.
And we just had to address it in a different way.
The only thing Ken that I would add -- and I agree with everything that Dave said.
And I think increasingly it's probably one of the things that people look at Kroger probably incorrectly because they try to put people into channels.
And if you look at what a traditional supermarket would be and you go into our stores today it's nothing like what that traditional supermarket used to be.
And it really -- there really is a new category that we're in that we're satisfying the needs based on what customers are telling us they want that Dave outlined.
And I really do think it's one of the things where we along with our investors probably try to stick things into channels and it really is what we're trying to create with our customers a channel that's completely different than anything out there.
And I think our customers are showing it and our associates are executing against it for our customers that show that that's actually happening.
We've actually described internally what you're talking about in saying that the grocery industry as we all grew up in it really doesn't exist anymore.
And we'll occasionally use the term traditional grocery because it helps relate to things that you all will describe and that you're describing now.
But we don't think of that as our industry.
We don't have a real good name from it other than food but it is a broader industry than just that traditional food industry.
Research Division</strong> And sorry just one follow-up.
That's all very helpful.
But how would you describe the major differences between you and a traditional grocer at this point? Because to me and maybe I'm seeing this incorrectly you clearly have differences but you're still selling mostly food.
I mean the prices are cheaper and you have other offerings and you have fuel and so forth but it's more close than not.
So perhaps help me understand where I'm maybe not seeing the differences.
Well your list was right and the so forth is a longer list too.
Just contrast us with ourselves instead of looking at what you're comparing to.
Look at ourselves in the 1990s to now.
And even though we had good earnings growth during that time our sales were not strong.
We were losing our relevancy with customers.
And we were really more focused on just producing earnings.
When we moved to a point of view that says we've got to solve issues for customers putting our customers first that in effect indirectly gave us a stronger result for our shareholders.
And we felt it would and it has proven to be true.
And sometimes in life and I think it's definitely true in business if you go after something directly you may get it for a while but you won't get it forever.
But if you go at it indirectly by serving the broader goal the broader goal for us is our customer relevancy then you end up serving the shareholders as well.
And I think that's what we've seen happen.
So I would prefer to contrast us with ourselves.
And all of the things you described are true.
Each of the 4 keys has specific things about them that we have done.
We've talked about many of those over the last several years.
But we've worked hard on each of the 4.
It's not any one of them it's all of them.
So I don't know if that's help you anymore but...
Your next question will come from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital.
I'm just wondering -- a couple of questions here.
I don't know if you commented on this but what are -- I'm assuming comps are I think kind of trending in line with the fourth quarter results and the quarter-to-date.
Is that fair? Let me just give you a summary on it.
We had through last week which is 4 weeks our identical sales without fuel would be comparable to where we where in the fourth quarter.
We did not update it to this week because this week frankly is not comparable because with the leap year day that we added we now have a bigger shift in first of the month than normal.
So it's not a comparable week.
And we are still seeing this year and last year high variability from the beginning of the month to the end of the month and so that enters into it too.
But through the 4 weeks anyway I'd say the identical sales were comparable.
Okay great.
And then I guess just looking at -- I know you've veered away from talking about thi s but just directionally looking at selling gross margin.
Earlier in fiscal 2011 when you were still kind of talking about it you were discussing the cadence on a 2-year basis because there was a lot of volatility.
I guess maybe can you just give me your directional thoughts on selling gross trends into fiscal '12 same kind of level of investment in '11 a little lower any color? Well first we're not going to put it in terms of selling gross margin.
While it's still an important concept for us to think of in running our business we think it adds too much confusion to the discussion.
But directionally you've heard us say we work backwards.
We said that we expect our FIFO operating margin rate to slightly improve in 2012 so that we put it in the K and described that already -- or in the 8-K we filed today.
So you start with that and everything else works back from that.
You should expect as we've said before some additional investment in our gross margin -- FIFO gross margin.
And as we do that though you should also expect over the course of the year that we'll have savings that will offset that so that we end up with a slight gain in operating profit margin.
I don't know if that helps but we do expect some investment certainly.
Similar to last year is it fair to say that you will find the savings at the early part of the year to then spend it slightly more towards latter? I think the only comment I'd make on that is just refer back to what Mike said about the flow of the quarters through the year.
That contains -- that guidance on as you think about the quarters gives you the best feel we have for the way we currently expect it to flow.
But as we've pointed out we also make tactical adjustments as the year go on.
And if we've done that we'll try to identify that if it's meaningful.
Okay.
And then just the last question.
Looking at your share repurchases in fiscal '12 I guess obviously this is a high year.
But in '12 what do you consider kind of a more normalized cadence on the share repurchases or maybe in terms of free cash flow allocation? Yes.
If you look at it over time in years where we haven't done an aggressive buyback like '11 it's typically been in the $400 million to $600 million range.
We like to do enough to offset dilution and it's relatively steady throughout the year.
Don't have a particular target in mind as I sit here today because some of it is driven by all of the forces around us and what other opportunities we have to invest in cash.
I'm happy with my debt rating my guidance on -- our guidance on CapEx is a little bit higher because we continue to see some phenomenal store sites come our way and some technology projects that we think will be attractive returns for the long haul.
Your next question will come from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to dig in a little bit here on the OG&amp;A line.
Are there any health care and pension increases kind of embedded in that number that you're going to have to overcome throughout the year? Throughout next year? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I mean the pension -- if you look at the pension overall if you set the contracts aside where we consolidated the pension plans the remaining plans would have some increases in them and all OG&amp;A would certainly have increases in them.
If you look at UFCW pension plan expense overall because of what we did in December that contribution and expense should decline overall in 2012.
And we talked about that benefit back in December when we announced the consolidation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And moving over to your gasoline business.
Are we still seeing that effect when rising gasoline prices are occurring that you get a margin drag? Because you seemed to have a pretty good margin performance this quarter and for the year.
Mark yes that would typically be the case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so far in the first quarter do you feel like there's dramatic weather difference versus last year which might be helping? Or how does that stack up? If you look at the weather so far weather definitely was a bigger help last year than this year.
We've had very few snowstorms this year.
And obviously when there's snowstorms kids stay home and they eat at home versus at school.
So we really haven't -- we didn't have those -- very limited benefits in the fourth quarter.
We've had very little of those benefits in the first quarter also.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First just a curiosity.
I know you guys have a huge pharmacy.
Are you seeing any benefits from the Express Walgreen dispute? And do you think it's going to be additive to your first quarter EPS? If you look at the guidance that Mike outlined for the year we included some benefit for Express Script transfers to Kroger.
If you look at where we're trending right now our increases are a little bit more than what we were expecting.
So to the extent that it's better than what we had built in yes it would be a positive.
Obviously if they settled tomorrow that would also affect the number.
The other thing that we will plan to do is at the end of each quarter give you some insight in terms of what the Express business helped us by so you could have some insight and get a feel for that but we did include some.
But right now we're actually doing better than what we included.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And did you guys quantify -- and maybe Mike I missed this.
Did you quantify for the first quarter what you thought it would add to your EPS? We did not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did not.
Is it going to be -- is it meaningful or no? We did not quantify it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears a little bit because we've covered a lot on this call.
I'm just kind of curious with the acquisition strategy.
I know we talk about it every once in a while.
It seems like maybe you could do some maybe larger accretive transactions.
And I was just wondering is it time to get a little bit more aggressive? And would you ever think of deploying your capital? I know you talked about the dividends and the share repurchases more aggressively in M&amp;A.
If I had the script from the last time we answered that question I would just replay the tape for you because it's the same answer.
We're always interested always looking highly selective...
And don't need them to make the numbers...
Yes we don't need them to make our numbers.
Lots of companies that give forecasts for the year assuming they'll make acquisitions.
We never do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But no consideration right now of getting a little bit more aggressive given you guys are doing well the channel seems to be suffering? We're not opposed to them like Dave said but we're not going to change the metrics we look at and stretch to do something because of the current environment.
If it meets our metrics we would certainly look at it.
And if it doesn't we won't.
Your next question will come from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about competition.
I think everybody is saying that it's been quite rational.
And I think having positive comps for many people because of inflation helps the psychology for retailers.
But maybe you could talk a little bit about any thoughts you might have if we end up with really modest inflation at the end of the year do you think there's some risk that there's going to be a pickup in competition? Well first I would agree with you Meredith that the competition has been rational.
It doesn't mean it's not significant.
It's been quite significant.
And last year was just like we've seen in previous years lots to address and we fully expect that going forward.
I do think there's a psychological effect when identical sales are positive that cause people to be a little bit more rational than they might have otherwise been.
But actually when we saw a deflation a couple of years ago behavior was -- for the most part there were some moments but for the most part it was more rational.
We called out a few times in the quarter calls where we saw some blips and differences but generally it wasn't too bad.
And that was with deflation.
But what you described and what we certainly are forecasting is not a deflationary environment but one that's just a little less inflationary than it is currently.
And so I would not expect to see an environment that was much different than what we've been seeing fiercely competitive but certainly rational.
The only other thing I would add to that Meredith is we also expect the economy to improve a little bit and we do think the improvement in the economy would help everybody's volume go up a little bit and spend on an item a little more expensive items and those kind of things.
So I think that is also in the background.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have a question.
You clearly are doing a very good job of managing expenses.
The FIFO gross margin was up which it hasn't been for a while.
Is there any particular area of expense shrink transportation that stands out as a positive for you guys in 2011? Yes you want to comment on it Rodney? Yes.
One of the things we're really pleased about is it's really broad-based.
And there isn't just one place where you can go and say half the savings is being created by this one item.
It really is all across -- all the departments.
Shrink results were very solid our warehouse and transportation group did a nice job.
And when you adjust for fuel it's even better.
If you look at our store teams they did a very nice job of and Dave mentioned it earlier really identifying things to make work more efficiently where the customer is not -- it doesn't benefit the customer and then we reinvest some of that to help the customer other places we help to invest in lower pricing.
So it's really very broad-based which is one of the things we're very pleased about.
Research Division</strong> And that's great.
And my final question would be about the labor negotiations.
I looked at the 8-K and there was actually commentary that said there's a bunch of markets you're going to be renegotiating and the negotiations are going to be challenging.
I was just wondering if you could talk about what happened in 2011.
And in general because obviously every market is different how did the course of those conversations go between wages and health care and pension? I'll let Rodney maybe comment in a second.
But the language we used in the 8-K and that we use today is actually pretty consistent with how we've seen the world for a long time that there's lots of pressures that need to be addressed.
And on one hand as an employer we genuinely want to provide positive wages good wages that are viewed in the market as good wages and good solid benefits.
I mean those things actually matter to us that we can provide that.
At the same time we recognize we have to be cost-competitive and so we work hard on that.
But that's not a new phenomenon.
And the challenge of the negotiations is also not new because there are some structural legacy issues in contracts generally that need to be generally addressed.
So as to the specifics though I'll let Rodney comment on that.
Yes.
The only other thing when you look at '11 I don't think there's anything specific.
One of the things I've been very pleased with the union and our labor negotiators is just sticking with it.
Because the things that you've outlined obviously it's a great deal of difficulty.
Dave outlined we want to make sure that we have a very solid wage benefit and health care benefit package that's extremely competitive in the marketplace.
And I've really been impressed with everybody's commitment and persistence in just trying to keep talking about it working through it engaging our associates trying to understand what really works and allows us to stay competitively.
So that piece I would give both parties high marks on sticking with it.
But outside of that I don't think there's anything unusual to talk about on '11.
Obviously as you look forward you have the new health care laws that start changing a lot in 2013.
And how that affects and what uncertainties that creates will be a lot of the discussion I think in '12 too.
Meredith the pension agreement we reached last year is a really good example of what Rodney was describing of people sticking with it working through it trying to find a way to make that all work.
I think that took us I don't know 1.5 years...
18 months.
To work through.
Yes.
So it just illustrates that point.
That was a good question though.
Your next question will come from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we looked at Fred Meyer and your jewelry store business separately in the quarter fourth quarter can you talk about how those businesses performed? And I'm thinking about what kind of seasonal kick they had versus management's expectations? If you look on the I would say the grocery side but it's broader than just grocery at Fred Meyer it was phenomenal.
When you look at the nonfood side and jewelry I would say it was a solid year.
If you look at our performance versus the publicly reported companies we've outperformed most of those companies so it was solid but it wasn't something that was spectacular.
So overall we felt really good about it.
But it wasn't something that was just blow-away-good that it really drove the numbers in a different level.
Now when you say jewelry was solid or the nonfood side of Fred Meyer was solid I think you described both as solid was that upsales and earnings versus a year ago? Up on sales.
If you look at the 2 combined up on earnings -- not necessarily up on earning jewelry would've been not up on earnings.
All right.
And then if you -- I want to go back to comps and look at it a different way.
If you sort of took your households and divide it in 3 economic or demographic tranches how were comps between high low and middle groups? Well if you did it based upon their sensitivity to price which is one of the ways we look at it the tier that is most sensitive to price was challenged and it's suffered disproportionately.
And we think it's a direct result of retail prices on food being higher and them not having any more money in their wallet to spend.
So the units went down and those numbers were not very pretty.
All of the other segments were -- would've been good and strong and up and positive.
We ought to also comment that corporate brands had a terrific quarter and a terrific year.
We noted the 35% of grocery units that's back up to the peak that we've ever achieved and that's where we're just about 1.5 years or 2 ago.
And that does sort of detemper the identical sales number because it can be the same number of units but it's a lower retail price.
And that strong offering can actually show up in that way and it may look like the ID number in a certain category is worse than it really is and you have to factor that in.
I agree with that.
And let me add one other thing.
This might give you a little bit of color.
We've often identified a few categories or products or brands and so forth that have done well.
And let me just highlight those and maybe a few others.
We've obviously in several quarters past talked about natural foods and organic produce sushi Boar's Head Starbucks prepared foods all of those had really good results.
But we would add to that list floral -- and we had by the way a good Valentine's Day a strong Valentine's Day.
Greeting cards are actually up cosmetics are up.
Those are areas that we've seen some improvements in.
And that would give you a little sense of the optimism that we have is that we're seeing a little broader customer recovery than what we'd seen before.
But still that bottom group that is most price-sensitive is definitely a challenge right now.
Your next question will come from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I take your comments there Dave just on the broader customer recovery and the quarter-to-date comp trends that are up say 5% and with the Express Scripts benefit coming in a little bit stronger so far can you kind of help me triangulate back to that 3% to 3.5% comp guidance as we think about the full year? Sure I'd be happy to and Mike and Rodney may have some additional thoughts too.
But first when you think about 3% to 3.5% it could initially give you a feeling that we're not very optimistic about the year.
But don't think that at all.
In fact it's just the opposite.
Those numbers reflect a surprisingly high impact of moving some drugs off of patent and into the generic prescription world.
And it is quite frankly impactful on our total company numbers.
And that's the primary thing that's driving that.
And so I want to make sure you see that we feel pretty optimistic about what this future looks like.
It certainly includes our view that the economy is going to improve.
It also includes our view that the customers' world is improving.
And it includes our view that inflation will moderate a bit as we get later into the year.
You want to add anything more to that Mike? The other thing is is that the 3% to 3.5% won't be smooth throughout the year.
We expect higher numbers in the first part of the year and it will decline as the year goes on as a result of what Dave said with those generics going off-patent.
And there's a couple of reasons for that.
I don't want this to be a pharmacy call although Lincoln Lutz may like that but the first 6 months that we have -- that those drugs go on off-patent there is an exclusive generic provider so that's a step down in sales a little bit.
And then after 6 months it steps down again.
I don't mind sharing that specifically that impact that Dave talked about.
Our estimate of the effect of the drugs coming off-patent and going to generic on our total book of business is 50 basis points.
That's not 50 basis points on pharmacy sales that's the overall reduction in business for the company.
That doesn't really -- but they come at little bit of higher gross profit rate.
And that's one of the reasons I went into the detail I did on explaining how the year is.
So that's going to have a disproportionate effect in the back half of the year.
But we don't believe our profits will suffer because the gross profit rate on those is higher.
And it will stand a little counterintuitive to the model we've espoused for so long but we're just trying to give some transparency into how we see the year shaking out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's actually very helpful.
And then just if I could follow up on the first quarter guidance say a little bit better than $0.70 $0.71 for EPS.
If we think about say a high 4% comp and SG&amp;A leverage consistent with what you did -- can you just help me out on the LIFO charge for 1Q? It would really appear that there's going to be another step-down on the core FIFO in 1Q.
I just want to make sure if my view is correct.
Yes.
I don't think that's necessarily the case.
That's potentially possible.
But keep in mind last year's first quarter was just a phenomenal quarter.
Everything that could possibly go right went right.
And my comment on the LIFO when you look at where we were on LIFO early in the year last year it's that kind of in the range or close to the range that we're expecting for the full year this year.
So we had to increase our LIFO throughout the year in 2011.
And so we won't get any benefit on earnings per share from a significantly lower -- or from a potentially lower LIFO charge until later in the year when we had to catch up the full year.
Your next question will come from the line of Robby Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Kelly Bania actually in for Robby Ohmes.
I was wondering if you kind of broadly look back at the year how you would characterize the level of price investments.
Was it maybe above normal or normal? And as you think about next year you talked about the external environment improving.
What would you be planning in terms of price investments? And how could the benefit of the shift to generics possibly help fund some of that gross margin investment next year? Well let me first comment on last year.
I feel like some of our investment in gross margin certainly was on price programs.
But some of it was with a high rate of inflation.
A higher rate of inflation tends to bring the gross profit rate down just a little bit unless you try to chase the percentage which we typically have not done.
And that's a little part of it too.
So I wouldn't try to subscribe that all of the gross investment last year was purely based on our price programs and things we were trying to invest in like that.
And as for this year looking forward I think it would be very similar to that kind of thinking.
I don't see it as a big difference although I do think that the inflation's going to change a little it will moderate a little bit.
And so the impact from the inflation might be a little less pronounced during the year.
Rodney you want to add more color to it than that? Yes.
The only other thing I would add is I always think that you have to separate the grocery and drug/GM departments away from the fresh departments in terms of meat produce.
And those departments are heavily influenced by commodity prices.
And if you look at 2011 certainly from a commodity price inflation standpoint it was significantly more than normal which caused more-than-normal to get passed to the customer.
But at the same time there were times when we paid our fair share of that cost.
So I really think you have to separate it into 2 buckets.
And when you look at just the grocery departments in those it was a pretty normal year.
We would expect '12 to be pretty much staying along the same lines.
On the fresh part of the business that's much more commodity-driven.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just another question on market share.
Thanks for all the color there.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on fourth quarter market share trends versus Walmart.
I think you mentioned you were up 40 basis points for the year.
Wondering if that's changed at all in the fourth quarter? It sounds like Walmart's getting a little more price-aggressive.
I'm wondering if you saw that or if there was any change.
We really don't talk about by quarter-by-quarter because when you look at it within quarters and this has been true for the last I don't know 5 or 10 years or however long we've tracked it a lot more variability across quarter-to-quarter just because how the quality of how people report the data and all that.
So there's a lot more volatility from quarter-to-quarter so we really don't talk about it.
We felt very good about where we were across the year and by quarter.
And that's really the only thing that I would talk about.
Your last question will come from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So Rodney I think you said something really interesting with regards to -- the third quarter tonnage was essentially flat and slightly improving as you ended the year.
Was there anything unique that you did at the end of 2011 to improve the tonnage in your opinion? Nothing more than normal things that you would do.
I mean it really is trying to understand what's connecting and what's not and you modify along the way.
But I wouldn't say it was one big one item that caused it.
I really think it's just you continue to learn and just getting a little bit better about on the things you're doing.
Research Division</strong> And then also in the prepared remarks there was a comment loyal customers spend about 50% of their food dollars with Kroger and that there was opportunity to grow that.
Are there any current initiatives focused specifically on growing that dollar with the loyal customers? All of them.
Rodney do you want to add to that? Yes I mean I'm not going to be able to be any more insightful than what Dave is.
There are a lot of things that we're doing.
It really is -- if you think about a football analogy it's one play at a time.
And it's fascinating those customers would tell us they spend more than what they actually spend with us.
And it really is trying to understand each customer segment and what's important to them and delivering better against that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly there was mention with regards to answering one of the questions that there's several technology projects that you're looking at that should be attractive for the long haul.
Can you elaborate on what those might be? Probably wouldn't go into the list of them.
But as you know whenever you get into any kind of technology projects they typically consume a bit of capital.
And we want to make sure that we have the appropriate amount allocated and budgeted for that and it does affect where CapEx winds up coming in.
Thank you very much.
And so before we end the call today I would like to share some additional thoughts with our associates who are listening in today.
Because of your hard work in 2011 it was a big success.
We made solid progress in connecting more with our customers especially by offering better and faster service and making sure that we have the products our customers want in stock.
We worked hard to keep costs under control in ways that are meaningful to the business but not distracting to our customers.
And we have successfully reinvested the costs that you saved.
Our customers say that they can feel the difference.
Thank you and keep up that great work.
This week we invited 38 Kroger associates from across the entire company to join us in Cincinnati for a special celebration.
These associates live our values and leadership model in their daily work.
Together this talented group has shown remarkable leadership innovation and courage each in his or her own special way.
Our honorees this year include managers who lead strong and engaged store teams associates whose new ideas have made a big difference community service award winners the associates who have joined the I Can Do That fitness challenge and made a healthy lifestyle change.
We are inspired by their efforts to make our company better.
Please help us congratulate and thank these associates.
You can learn more about them by watching our quarterly broadcast tomorrow or reading on Great People.me in the coming weeks.
That completes the call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
Thank you all for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Kroger Co.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Fab and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Fab.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our first quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's first quarter 2012 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We're very pleased with Kroger's excellent first quarter results.
We achieved strong overall sales and solid operating performance.
Our core business is growing and we are rewarding shareholders through earnings growth increasing dividends over time and stock buybacks.
Identical supermarket sales were up for the 34th consecutive quarter growing by 4.2%.
We are able to deliver this kind of consistent performance quarter-after-quarter thanks to our associates' commitment to our Customer 1st strategy.
Here are a few highlights.
Every supermarket department had positive identical sales led by significant growth in natural food pharmacy bakery and deli.
Every supermarket division had positive identical sales.
Kroger's FIFO operating profit dollars grew both with and without fuel and it is our expectation to slightly increase our FIFO operating margin rate excluding fuel for the year.
As a result of these strong results we exceeded our expectations and as a result raised our earnings per share guidance for the year.
Mike will provide detail on our full year guidance as well as some other items that factored into earnings growth for the quarter shortly.
So before I turn it to Rodney and Mike I'd like to spend a little time discussing a question that came up during last earnings call.
The essence of the question was how is Kroger growing market share and performing well especially compared to traditional competitors? How are we different? Several years ago we took a hard look at who we were really competing against and that helped us realize we're competing against more than just traditional grocery retailers.
Also based on our research and our identical sales we were not connecting with customers as well as we needed.
In fact customers told us we weren't doing a very good job.
Their needs were changing but we had not changed with them.
These realities led us to develop our Customer 1st strategy and the 4 keys: people products shopping experience and price.
We've pushed hard to save money in places not important to customers and to reinvest -- invest it in places that are important to them.
This is the essence of the Kroger difference: solving needs for our customers sometimes in massive ways and sometimes in a very targeted personal way.
Customers tell us they notice the difference.
I believe this difference is why -- that we've had 34 consecutive quarters of positive identical sales.
Identical sales are the most visible indicator available of a retailer's relevancy to its customers.
I want to repeat that it's very important.
Identical sales are the most visible indicator available of a retailer's relevancy to its customers.
That's why we pay such close attention to the identical sales trend.
As we've grown our market share some of you have also asked who is Kroger gaining from? But since we're targeting customers and not other retailers there isn't always a clear answer.
One thing that is clear as we've grown market share our customers come from a much broader base than just supermarkets.
It is also clear that we compete very well with a broader array of food retailers and this includes restaurants.
We thought this background would be helpful to put in context our strong results and to project that at Kroger we have and will continue to separate ourselves from our traditional competitors.
In fact we are creating a new industry.
Rodney will now share some additional insight into Kroger's positive business trends in the first quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Dave talked about how we have differentiated ourselves.
One example of this is the joint venture we formed to create the consumer insight giant dunnhumbyUSA.
Years of experience with dunnhumby have made us exponentially better at personalization and individual rewards.
By deepening our focus on our customers we have redefined our business model.
It is more sustainable today than it was 5 10 or 15 years ago.
We also leverage our partnership with dunnhumby to better understand shopper behavior over time.
In the first quarter Kroger increased the total number of loyal households.
Those households are making more visits.
And while they are buying fewer items per trip the total units we sell to our loyal customers have increased.
We regularly seek customer feedback on how well we are executing in each of the 4 key areas of our Customer 1st strategy.
Our customers tell us we've improved performance in each key.
This improvement is consistent across all the keys and we are 60% of the way towards the goals we originally set.
We are happy with where we are and we are a different retailer as a result.
But there is offside to this.
We still have more work to do which is also very exciting.
Product cost inflation continued in the first quarter.
However the rate of inflation is decreasing faster than what we expected at the beginning of this year.
Identical store sales growth exceeded the rate of inflation which we estimate was 3.9% excluding fuel.
Deflation in the produce department offset somewhat the inflation in all other departments including grocery meat and bakery.
Total tonnage change was slightly better than the fourth quarter.
However it was still essentially flat.
Looking at one department with deflation produce we saw a significant growth in tonnage for the quarter.
Kroger's corporate brand share and sales grew more than national brands in the first quarter.
Corporate brands represented approximately 26% of grocery department sales dollars.
Grocery department units sold are up 60 basis points to 33.6% compared to the same quarter last year.
Our corporate brands team continues to create fresh and compelling products that fill unmet customer needs.
We recently launched Private Selection's Snack Chips in 13 new flavors including sea salt cinnamon sugar and a new gluten-free rice and bean chip made from rice and azuki beans.
And by the way they're all very good.
Finally an update on labor relations.
Our associates at King Soopers ratified a 2-year extension to the labor contract.
We also secured a new labor agreement covering associates at our Smith's and Food 4 Less stores in Las Vegas.
We have many contracts that have expired or will expire soon including contracts in Columbus Dayton Indianapolis Louisville Memphis Nashville and Portland.
Our objective at every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide good wages; a quality affordable health care; and retirement benefits for our associates.
Next Mike will share additional detail on Kroger's first quarter financial results and guidance for 2012.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Our identical supermarket sales increased 4.2% in the first quarter which contributed to net earnings totaling $439.4 million compared to $432.3 million in the same period last year.
Net earnings per diluted share showed strong growth to $0.78 from $0.70 per diluted share last year.
Our earnings per share growth was driven by EBITDA being higher than our expectations.
Additionally a tax reserve adjustment helped by about $0.015.
FIFO gross margin was 20.7% of sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 53 basis points from the same period last year.
We are pleased with this performance which was consistent with our plan for the quarter.
Last year we saw a very strong gross margin in the first quarter.
Kroger recorded a $46 million LIFO charge during the first quarters of both 2012 and 2011.
Operating general and administrative costs were 15.36% of sales.
Excluding retail fuel operations OG&amp;A declined 27 basis points from the same period last year.
Including rent depreciation it was a 40-basis-point reduction.
The benefits of leverage from productivity improvements outstanding cost control and positive sales more than offset rising health care costs and credit card fees.
Additionally the consolidation of 4 UFCW pension plans in the prior year benefited operating expenses in the first quarter as we anticipated.
Identifying and delivering sustainable operating cost reductions allows us to invest at all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy consistently over time.
The company's FIFO operating margin excluding fuel on a rolling 4-quarters basis decreased 11 basis points.
This was a little better than we expected due to the higher EBITDA versus our original expectation that I mentioned a moment ago.
We still expect FIFO operating margin excluding fuel to slightly increase for the full year of 2012.
Additionally we generated more operating margin profit dollars this year compared to last year.
Turning now to Kroger's retail fuel operations.
In the first quarter our supermarket fuel centers and convenience stores produced positive identical gallon growth.
These outlets earned approximately $0.121 per gallon compared to $0.124 in the same quarter last year.
The benefit to earnings per share was the same as last year.
Now I'll update you on our financial strategy.
During fiscal 2012 Kroger plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain its current debt rating.
Kroger repurchased 14.6 million common shares for a total investment of $345.3 million in the first quarter.
The Board of Directors have authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program that replaces the prior authorization which was exhausted on June 12 2012 just a couple of days ago.
Over the last 4 quarters Kroger has used its strong free cash flow to return more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $539.1 million for the first quarter compared with $573.1 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect full year capital expenditures to be in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range.
Net total debt was $7.8 billion an increase of $662.1 million from a year ago.
This is primarily the result of debt issued to fund our UFCW pension plan consolidation.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.91 compared with 1.79 during the same period last year.
In March we told you that we expect the external environment to be a little better in 2011.
Generally speaking this has been our experience through the first quarter.
We continue to monitor changes in gas prices and inflation.
And as the headlines continually remind us macroeconomic issues will continue to affect consumer sentiment throughout the year.
We are confident in our ability to make tactical adjustments as needed to successfully navigate these factors while continuing to deliver on our Customer 1st strategy.
Kroger's long-term business model is to generate earnings -- annual earnings per share growth averaging 6% to 8% plus a dividend of 1.5% to 2% for its shareholder return of approximately 8% to 10%.
We expect this total return to compare favorably to the S&amp;P 500 over a rolling 3- to 5-year time horizon.
We continue to expect fiscal 2012 earnings per share growth to be higher than our long-term business model and our strong first quarter positions Kroger's for an even more robust 2012 than originally expected.
Therefore we've increased our earnings guidance for the first year to -- for the fiscal year to $2.33 to $2.40 per diluted share.
The original guidance was $2.28 to $2.38 per share.
The increase reflects the strength of the company's first quarter results.
I'd like to share a little bit more about pharmacy's better-than-expected performance which helped sales as well as earnings in the first quarter.
Pharmacy achieved double-digit identical sales about half due to new Express Scripts business and half from exceptional overall pharmacy performance.
Even without Express Scripts it was an excellent quarter for our pharmacies.
Our ability to project pharmacy performance over the course of the year remains difficult when factoring in the benefit of Express Scripts and prescription drugs coming off patent.
This quarter was good and we were -- and we think we are satisfying new customers who transferred because of Express Scripts.
We continue to expect identical sales to trend down throughout the remainder of the fiscal year as prescription drugs come off patents.
For these reasons we continue to expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of 3% to 3.5%.
As we said at year end we expect second -- the second quarter growth rate to be in line with our long-term growth rate of 6% to 8% and the third and fourth quarters will be higher than that.
The fourth quarter will also benefit from the 53rd week.
Now I will turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
This was another great quarter.
We exceeded our expectations and as a result raised our earnings per share guidance for the year.
Kroger's performance this quarter like the 33 quarters of positive identical sales that preceded it was the result of our focus on our customers.
We're building relevant and personal connections with each customer and that requires fresh new ways of thinking about our markets and our competition.
That customers tell us we have significantly improved in the 4 key areas of our Customer 1st strategy lets us know that we are not the same company today that we were even 7 years ago.
We have differentiated ourselves from traditional food retailers and expect to drive loyalty cash flow and earnings growth in 2012 and beyond.
We now look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of things guys.
When you look at your expectation for comps through the remainder of the year what do you think happens to tonnage from where we are right now? Do you think we see any improvement? And it looks by the work we've done that competitive rationality continues to prevail.
People aren't doing anything dumb at this point.
Do you see the same thing? And would you expect that to continue? On the tonnage for the year we've said I think all along that as inflation comes down which is what we expect to have happen that that -- while that's not negative that doesn't mean prices are going to go down.
It just means the rate of growth would slow.
But we do think that that will in the long run be positive for tonnage.
However tonnage will be slower to recover than the rate of inflation will come down I believe.
That's a personal opinion.
We don't have any way to prove that till we actually go through it.
And the reason I think that is because the economy from a shopper's point of view is not in all that great a shape.
So it's not going to cause customers to jump back on the wagon unless they've got more money to spend.
But we do expect it to positively affect tonnage just at a slower rate that's all.
As for competition we would agree with you.
It's been a rational market.
I think everyone realizes it's a tough market out there for customers and I don't see a lot of overreacting going on.
Rodney you want to add any color to that? No.
No.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Secondly then if you think about deployment of your cash flow arguably you're in the best position you've been in in a very long time competitively.
Stock is as cheap as it's been in 10 years.
So how do you think about 2 things: one being more aggressive with your buyback effort to the point of possibly levering up a little bit to do that? And secondly how do you think about the dividend payout ratio? I know you have a target in terms of yield but where do you think you ought to be in terms of payout? I'll have Mike answer both of those in detail here in a second but I will tell you that part of the answer you can find in the fact that our board authorized stock repurchase to start back up again as we finished that earlier this week.
And that was intentional because we agree with you our stock prices is cheap.
So Mike? Yes.
Relative to the buyback we finished the quarter at 1.91x net total debt to adjusted EBITDA.
We think being in the 2 to 2.2x range is something that the rating agencies would be comfortable with and allow us to continue to be a BBB flat credit which is important to us.
It's not saying I want to be a 2.2x because you do like to have a little cushion operating cushion and not live life on the edge necessarily.
And over the last 4 quarters we've returned $1.6 billion between buybacks and dividends.
I think that's a pretty healthy return back to our shareholders.
And relative to the dividend payout ratio this will be our seventh year of paying a dividend since we've reinstituted it and we've increased it every year.
And we said at the outset and we continue to say our plan would be to: once you start a dividend you want to maintain it and not have to stop it and continue to grow it over time.
Your next question will come from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of categories I thought it was very interesting.
You talked about every supermarket had positive identical sales led by growth in natural foods pharmacy bakery and deli.
I was wondering if you could provide some more color around those particular categories.
Well obviously the pharmacy department as Mike mentioned was benefited from Express Scripts.
But even without Express Scripts pharmacy had a very strong identical sales growth.
And the team when they put together a plan on addressing -- getting the identical -- the additional Express Scripts business really did a nice job of making it broader than just trying to get that business.
And they've done a very nice job.
Obviously in natural foods it's a trend change or a continued trend of people eating more organic and natural foods.
And as we do a better and better job in that area we're able to -- for a customer to eliminate one extra shop and they can get those items from us at a price point that's very reasonable.
On produce -- well in deli bakery we've had strong results there for a while.
Produce is kind of interesting.
They had fabulous tonnage growth.
The identical sales weren't so -- it was positive but not so much but the tonnage was just outstanding.
Research Division</strong> And then Dave you had talked about this idea of kind of creating a new industry and I know that when your peers talk about your performance -- I mean they really do stand in awe.
I mean as you look into the future and I know that Kroger is always on the cutting-edge of technology what do you think continues to differentiate Kroger from the pack? Well I really think it's the way in which we've looked at the business and that was the point of the opening comments that I had is that in the past if you go back 15 years ago we kept thinking like a traditional grocer.
And we kept thinking that our competitors were traditional grocers and we kept thinking about where you get customers is by competing with traditional grocers.
The difference for us has been by focusing on customers we're defining the industry we're in by how the customers think of it not how we previously thought about it.
So as an example we used to think about it as people who buy food in supermarkets.
But today they buy food everywhere.
They go to the club stores the dollar stores the mass retailers.
They go to lots of places that are not supermarkets.
And in fact if you were to list our top competitors based on market share of the markets we operate in the top 2 or 3 would not be traditional supermarkets aside from us.
And as a result we don't really see that to be the universe that we're operating in.
We see it as totally different and we've had to approach it differently.
And I think that that's the reason we've had better results because we're swimming in a pool that's bigger -- we were thinking about it as bigger -- than simply what the market was for traditional retailers.
It's almost a classic business school case study to show how you define your market and how you think of yourself will often determine who you become.
And I think that's very true for us.
Dave the only other thing I would add Deborah to your question one of the things that we've really been working on hard and this has really been over the last several years is not having a strategy that's only dependent on one competitive advantage.
And if you look behind the strategy there's really 10 or 12 different critical pieces.
We often obviously talk about dunnhumby and that would be one of the piece.
But that isn't the only piece.
And we believe over time that creates a bigger and bigger competitive advantage because the competitor can try to get as good on one particular part but to do all the pieces is a lot harder.
And that's really -- when Dave talks about creating a new industry that's one of the things that -- we don't know quite what words to use other than we know it's a new industry because there's really not anybody else competing on such a broad level of experiences.
Obviously technology is one piece of that too.
Your next question will come from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you -- a 16-week quarter just wondered if you could shed some light on how your ID trended throughout the period? And if you could how things are going in the first few weeks here of the second quarter? Well let me answer the second part first and then I'll let Mike give you a little color on the trend and how we see it.
Currently for the quarter that we're in now -- and we're only what 3.5 weeks I guess into it -- we're down slightly from where we ran in the first quarter.
But I wouldn't read too much into that because we have seen in the last -- well even in the last year really higher volatility between weeks than what we had been -- customers experiencing maybe years back.
And as a result it would be real easy to over-read a number like that.
But after just 3.5 weeks that's really not enough to read.
But it is slightly down.
In addition to that we're seeing clearly the effect of the generics that we talked about in pharmacy.
That is some of the brand name prescription items that are going to generic which brings the price down very quickly.
And you can see it literally by week.
In fact I'm looking right now at a graph that shows by week the way in which these are coming off of patent and how it changes our sales.
So that makes a really big difference.
And I probably ought to add someone in here reminded me to make sure I emphasize the point is that when I say we're down slightly I'm saying down from the 4.2%.
We're not negative at all.
We're still quite positive.
We're still quite positive and quite pleased with where we are in sales.
I wanted to make sure that got clarified.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the trend during the quarter? Yes it's kind of hard to answer the trend during the quarter to break it down into distinct 4-week periods primarily because holidays shifted between some of those periods this year.
But when you kind of lap over those kinds of issues it was relatively consistent.
Obviously when we've reported March we said we were close to the fourth quarter numbers.
So it trended down a little bit throughout the quarter but that's kind of consistent with what Dave talked about.
As prescription drugs come off generics that's kind of the trend we expected.
So relatively stable a little bit of noise.
Clearly first of the month end of the month kind of phenomenas.
But overall fairly consistent throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just my follow-up Mike for you is your core FIFO gross profit margin compares get real easy here over the next few quarters.
Can you hold our hand on how we should think about that line item over the next 3 periods? I know you're saying total EBIT core you expect to be slightly up.
But how should we think about the components of FIFO GPM and SG&amp;A? Yes I won't give guidance on the specific lines.
Obviously the rolling 4 quarters is down 11 basis points at the end of the first quarter and our guidance is for that to be slightly better at the operating profit line.
So that means we need to make up the 11 plus a little bit throughout the rest of the year.
And to your point the first quarter was our toughest compare quarter.
A significant amount of the EBITDA we generated last year over 2010 was generated in the first quarter last year.
And that's why we're comfortable that we can continue to slightly expand that by the end of the year.
And the 11 basis points down did not alarm us.
In fact it was better than we had expected because of the stronger EBITDA in the first quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Ed Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My question for you is on the ID guidance.
You had mentioned on the call that inflation is decreasing or decelerating at a faster rate than you thought.
So what have you embedded in the guidance the ID guidance for the rest of the year on that? And since it's unchanged but there's less inflation does that mean that you changed your outlook for the way that you think tonnage is going to play out the rest of the year? I don't know that we would change the way we think tonnage is going to play out.
We ended the first quarter at just under 4% inflation.
If you look inside the grocery category which is half of our sales it actually got lower every 4-week period the way we measure it internally.
So clearly there's a decline going on at a pretty ratable measure throughout the year.
If you look at where we think it might be at the end of the year we're guessing under 3% 2% to 3%.
And when I talk about lower I mean lower inflation not lower tonnage.
We would actually expect some tonnage increase as we go throughout the year.
And Rodney's illustration in commodities like produce that are very price-sensitive and lower prices means a great crop that eats very well we saw extraordinary tonnage growth in produce in the first quarter.
So we would expect tonnage to get a little better throughout the year and inflation continue to trend down a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Just say we talk about an environment where maybe inflation in the back half of the year is -- let's just say it's not 2% to 3%.
Let's say it's something lower than that.
And for you guys it's fine that your ID goes from 5% to 3% or 2.5% or whatever it might be provided it's still a good number and that's not really in your control.
But you've got this pretty big gap with your competitors.
And under that environment it means that their sales maybe turn negative.
And what does that mean from a promotional standpoint I guess number one? And then if inflation's a little bit lighter how do you manage your business if that ID let's just say ends the year at less than 3%? I think at the end of the day it depends how you wind up getting to the 3%.
I can't speak to how a competitor may manage their business.
We spend enough time trying to figure out how to manage our own let alone worrying about how others are going to manage theirs.
Obviously we think about things would they get promotional or do something hotter if there's negative ID sales.
But at the end of the day the important component is the tonnage.
And when you look at some of the things that are elastic that have elasticity of demand inside the grocery department things like milk milk prices continue to trend down.
And the reported ID sales to the extent that the generics coming off of patent affect that that actually has a higher gross profit rate.
So I think if -- stepping back and looking at your business overall is tonnage moving in the right direction? What are your ID sales trends doing unaffected by prescriptions coming off patent? And understanding all that I think it's manageable for us.
We don't foresee deflation by the end of the year.
We foresee a little bit less inflation.
That doesn't mean -- which doesn't mean lower prices.
It probably means stable shelf prices or slightly up shelf prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly for you can you maybe give us an update on the state of the consumer as you see it now? I mean obviously volumes across the industry have been fairly weak.
Are customers just kind of getting by with buying less? Is there differences in income brackets? Just your sense as to really what you're seeing at the customer level.
Well what's going on with the customers today is much like what we described in March.
We're seeing those whose life and economic status is strong.
Feeling and acting a little bit like they're -- that the recession is over or certainly that the economy has improved.
We're seeing those who are on tight budgets and those who are more price-sensitive.
Their behavior is being affected more by the economy.
And I think overriding all of that is the fact that if you look at just generally the geopolitical world right now people are a little bit nervous.
And so there's a little bit of anxiety out there on the whole that kind of dampens their enthusiasm even for those that are on the high end.
That's how I would read it.
Rodney you want to add any more? I mean I think overall it would be pretty similar to what we said at the first year end.
We continue to see it getting a little better but boy it is very slow and bumpy from week to week.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's our understanding that the price investments you made in California recently were successful.
So 2 questions.
First is that the correct assessment that you got the tonnage response you wanted? And second if so based on that success to what extent might we expect maybe an accelerated investment in other banners down the road? Well I'll let Rodney answer the particulars but let me just remind you that what we've said about price investments for actually many years now is that it's a long fuse.
It's not the kind of thing that you invest one day and the next day you declare victory.
You invest one day and the next year you decide whether or not it was a really good move or not and you make adjustments maybe week-to-week and month-to-month.
But it's not something that you can read that quickly.
So Rodney you want to give any color to this? Just a couple of comments.
Our team at Ralphs and our -- have really done a very nice job of explaining to the customer the changes we made and the total value that we're offering versus before.
So we really think it's our associates that have done a nice job of communicating the value to the customer is the reason the customers are reacting in a positive way.
Some of the things that we did at Ralphs were things that we'd already done in other parts of the country earlier.
So it's really just from -- some of it was just from a timing standpoint that we now had the resources to do it at Ralphs.
So overall pleased with where we are.
Probably be about all the comments I'd make.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on a point you made earlier you talked about one of the reasons not to raise the payout ratio is that you wouldn't want to have to cut it once you raised it.
I'm curious one why you'd ever have to cut it.
And two if you're buying back stock you're rewarding investors for selling your stock.
And if you're paying a dividend you're rewarding investors for keeping it.
Wouldn't you want to reward the latter more than the former? And I guess just as a lower growth company versus the S&amp;P not your peers and you do throw off a lot of cash a higher payout ratio might seem somewhat befitting and you might attract more income-oriented investors.
So just curious how you do think about that if we can get any more color.
Sure.
I don't think I said I was worried about having to cut it.
I said from an overall dividend strategy a company once you start a dividend you go down that path wanting to make sure you can maintain it and grow it over time.
That's more of a textbook dividend philosophy not a Kroger worry that we're worried about cutting it.
We have grown it every year since we've instituted our dividend.
We would expect to continue to grow our yield and payout ratio over time.
We think our stock where it's been trading particularly of late is a very inexpensive buy and we think the potential return for us on buying the stock and at this point in time really rewards that share -- I think it does reward that shareholder who continues to own our stock and not sell the stock.
I'm not really rewarding the shareholder who sells the stock to me at $22 a share.
I'm rewarding the shareholder who continues to hold that and is going to enjoy the ride up from $22 with us as we continue to generate great results.
Your next question will come from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's Robbie Ohmes.
Just a couple of quick questions.
The first was if you could comment on -- is the percentage of your customer base on EBT has that continued to totally flatten out? Or is that still increasing? I was just curious.
And then the second question was just on the strength of your natural foods business and how you're approaching that.
I was just curious if you could maybe shed some light going forward how you see that area of your business linking in with dunnhumby.
Is it linked in with the dunnhumby JV already and being used to continue to drive loyal customers? Or is it an area that you merchandise that is just gaining momentum on its own? And maybe just give us some color on how you foresee that part of your business playing out over the next year or 2.
I'll comment on the EBT and then I'll ask Rodney to comment on the natural food trend and the rest of your question.
We are not seeing an increase in the EBT percent of our business.
What we are seeing though of course there's been some variations from week-to-week and even month-to-month in various markets and a lot of that has to do with the way states are paying out those benefits; often they're spreading it out now rather than all at the first of the month which is what they used to do.
And so it's a little bit hard to read but it's definitely not rising.
If anything it's settling down just a bit.
But it's just a bit so I wouldn't read a lot into that either.
Rodney you want to comment about natural food? Yes.
On the question on dunnhumby natural foods has always been tied into dunnhumby.
Now -- it would be true for natural foods and other parts of the store too.
We continue to get better at target marketing personalization for all customers to make sure that they understand what we offer in natural foods.
The biggest growth in natural foods is really regular customers that aren't just diehard natural foods or organic shoppers are finding some of the products taste better some of the items -- they just like the item it's more creative.
So you'll see customers that aren't necessarily just natural foods shoppers but shoppers that find something they like and they'll buy in that category.
And certainly my wife and I would be one that would fall into that category.
Rodney keeps bringing examples of new stuff in for us to try so he speaks from experience.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last follow-up question.
I was curious I know Wal-Mart has launched a sort of a different TV advertising campaign in a bunch of markets and I think in some cases or at least in one they've included polling someone who's shopped your store and tried to show a more competitive average basket.
And I was curious if you could comment on whether you've felt any significant impact from that approach.
Well we won't talk about any specific competitive issues I don't think.
But generally speaking I think you can see with our sales and the trends that we've identified that's probably the best way to describe where we are.
And remember that what we've said is our whole program is more than price.
We've invested a lot in price certainly but what we've tried to do is neutralize price from being the main issue to where the main issue for us is our people and our products and our shopping experience.
Your next question will come from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little bit about gross profit dollars.
It seemed -- and people kind of obsessed with comps when they look at slowing inflation but I think gross profit dollars are more important.
What happens when -- with the deflation in produce and you saw a big increase in volume would you also say that gross profit dollars were up? Mike you want to comment? Or -- we're actually going to look that up and see if we can give a more specific answer.
I don't have that at the tip of my fingers [indiscernible]...
I would agree with you though on the theme of gross profit dollars.
We think about our business in terms of dollars and not in terms of percents.
Research Division</strong> And certainly we know gross profit dollars per script are higher with generics.
Yes yes.
In fact in pharmacy it's crystal clear that while we're -- our sales change because of the generics is actually pretty radical on those items.
But the gross profit dollars is similarly radical in the other direction.
Yes.
When you look at the produce department our gross profit rate would have been down because of the deflation.
But because of the tonnage we generated a pretty good amount of incremental gross profit dollars.
Yes.
Just exactly what you were thinking Meredith.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess you had talked about moderating inflation in some other categories not outright deflation and that inflation could come down faster than tonnage would go up.
But do you think that still the net impact of all of that would be the gross profit dollars at worst would be flat? I would think -- I mean if you look at specific guidance you'll always have exceptions.
But when you look at it overall we're still expect and focused on having improving gross profit dollars when you look at it overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I can tell people who are worried about the moderating inflation to cool it just calm down.
Yes we think so.
Yes.
I would completely agree with that view.
And remember part of the change in our expected identical sales is because of the -- all the prescriptions coming off patent as Dave and Mike mentioned.
And that improves gross profit and that's something that's -- this year the number of drugs as you know coming off patent is significantly higher than any year certainly since we've been involved in this business.
Yes.
And we've overemphasized that point for a reason because we're really kind of nervous that when you see what we've forecasted for the identical sales for the year you'll -- someone will read that and conclude that things are getting worse.
But in fact the pharmacy affects most or all of that.
Research Division</strong> Just talking about pharmacy quickly first do you still think you're getting more than your fair share of Express Scripts customers the ones who are leaving Walgreen? And then also how sticky do you think they would be if there was a resolution between Express Scripts and Walgreen? To me that's a great question.
It's always tough to answer because it's one of those where I'll answer it both ways.
You never get -- unless you have 100% of something it's never your fair share.
So -- but if you look at the share that we think we're getting of the Express Scripts it's certainly higher than our market share is of pharmacy in the markets that we operate in.
So we certainly feel like we're getting more than our fair share based on that.
On the stickiness the real key for us is making sure that we're delivering great service to those customers that come to us.
Because when they come to us that's one less shop they have to go to and we should be able to save them time.
As long as we have good -- great service and the prices are right that should be the stickiness.
And we're doing an awful lot of work making sure that the customers tell us how we're doing specifically those customers and making sure any things that we can do better we're focused on doing better.
So if that did change there would be more stickiness to that customer.
Research Division</strong> And do you have tie-ins with your frequent shopper program and deals to create loyalty? I mean one of Walgreen's weaknesses in my opinion is that they don't have a frequent shopper program.
Is that something that you think helps you keep the customers? We certainly do.
And you should assume that anything that you can imagine we're trying to do those things to help improve that stickiness.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Otway in for Scott.
Just kind of in terms of a follow-up from a question earlier.
With fuel having come down pretty decently and going below that $3.50 an important $3.50 mark in some markets have you noticed a change in the consumer or in consumer spending in the last few weeks specifically? Not that I can discern.
Rodney anything you could...
No I would agree with that.
And I don't remember exactly where it was the same week last year but -- the real issue on fuel at least in the quarter was that it did not rise as much as had widely been anticipated.
It was still generally up.
The other thing I think from a consumer standpoint they're still nervous about is it a permanent decline? Or it just happens to be 2 or 3 weeks? And I think that really have behavior change customers have got to get comfortable with more than just 2 or 3 weeks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then I guess just switching over to SG&amp;A quickly.
You guys had some nice leverage there.
As inflation continues to decelerate and comps come in further at what point do you start to delever? Maybe perhaps some color around there would be great.
Yes I think we'll be fine on our ability to do that with the productivity processes we have and getting better execution on the productivity.
Also keep in mind as the sales ID sales in the back half of the year get more affected by the generics those do generate a higher gross profit.
So when you look underneath the dollars we have to spend on that OG&amp;A we should be able to get sufficient coverage of that which is the cornerstone of us guiding to a slightly improving operating profit for the year.
Your next question will come from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital.
Just quickly again on Express Scripts.
I just was wondering were you guys actually -- did you gain more share on Express Scripts than you expected to? Or can you maybe just give a little color on that? I'd say we're -- so far it's been a little bit better than we expected and we continue to stay focused on that.
So yes.
Okay.
And then looking at operating expenses I guess if I remember correctly in the first quarter of last year you seem to have a similar pattern where you got the expense savings ahead of spending which is just kind of what you plan on -- you indicated you planned on doing going forward.
So is it fair to say that that's kind of what happened this quarter? You definitely saw some expense savings ahead of the investment in price and we may see investment in price accelerate throughout the rest of the year? I wouldn't read too much into that.
I mean it's one of the reasons why we wanted to make sure that we raised the guidance so that you could see that some of the extra improvement in the first quarter we actually think it will flow through for the whole year.
If you look at our expense savings versus what we expected we're pretty in line with what we expected.
And we did a nice job of balancing between gross and OG&amp;A improvements.
And we're really focused on trying to make sure the 2 tie together.
I don't know Mike or Dave.
We have to balance it for the rest of the year because at the end of the first quarter with the operating profit margin down 11 basis points and guidance to slightly grow that by the end of the year we have to remain in balance.
Otherwise that won't be the result.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just looking at your cash flow I was just curious accrued expenses definitely was a benefit for you guys.
Is there anything to talk to there? Nothing specific.
We can talk offline on that.
Taxes are in there but nothing outlandish that I can think of.
Your next question will come from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit because you -- an earlier caller mentioned lower gasoline prices' effect on the consumer.
But what I'm interested in is when you -- first of all when you go '08 into '09 you saw some significant dis-inflation and then deflation and the tonnage went through the roof at that time.
And are there -- I guess what I'd ask is are there areas outside of produce where you believe a significant -- I know you're not calling for that this year but let's just say relief and perhaps decline in some of your costs and some of the prices you're able to offer consumers would stimulate more demand and actually drive tonnage? Because I've been hearing from some of the food manufacturers for a long time about this consumer whose got $100 to spend at the grocery store and has been having to stretch it further and further.
Do you get more discretionary buying if that $100 actually winds up going further at some point over the next 6 to 12 months? Well when I think about inflation I always separate the perishable departments from the packaged products in the center of the store.
That's important because the behavior is actually quite a little bit different.
So I would expect some inflation and deflation happening over any course of the year in both produce and meat as examples.
And we just manage that in the course of business.
And you have behavior that happens like what happened in produce last quarter which we've described.
But the essence of your question really goes to the center of the store and the packaged goods.
And normally when I'm talking about food inflation I'm usually talking about that because it behaves a little less erratic.
The deflationary times that you talked about before was where the CPG operators needed more tonnage.
Their costs were such that they needed to reinvest back in their products.
They'd let their prices get too high.
As commodity costs went up they went up and they went up a little higher plus some and then they had to overcorrect actually in the other direction.
So tonnage then did pick up.
You were right about that particular case.
I don't think we've seen quite the same overreaction so far on the upside this time although I could be wrong.
Some individual operators could have a different view of that.
And so it remains to be seen how they'll behave.
I don't know Rodney if you have any additional color.
No.
So I don't think -- we're not really thinking that there's going to be some erratic change here.
Research Division</strong> So you think a decline and -- a significant decline let's say down 1% or 2% versus let's say low-single digit we're thinking about by the end of this year now would drive additional tonnage in the center store? Well I think that's -- first it's hypothetical and I just as soon not get into all the possible scenarios that could happen.
But second is that it would be highly dependent upon individual companies.
So if a company invested in their products and sold them to us at a lower price and had them retailed as a result at a lower price it sees tonnage in those items.
But whether or not you'll see that or not is really going to be up to those individual companies.
The other thing that was going on back in '08 '09 as Dave mentioned some of the CPGs were making way too much in margin.
And part of the huge tonnage growth we experienced and saw was in our own brands.
And it's one of the values that we have because we have such a strong corporate brand program across so many categories.
When the economics of the product is different than what the CPGs are charging we can't -- we will give that benefit to the customer and we always get rewarded in huge tonnage increases.
And if you remember we had tremendous improvement in market share on our corporate brands at that point too.
Your next question will come from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike it's not that often that we hear you talking about pharmacy during the call so I wanted to ask if that was a meaningful swing in year-over-year EPS contribution for pharmacy this quarter.
Well it certainly helped the EBITDA growth in the first quarter but there were plenty of other items inside the other departments that contributed to the EBITDA growth being stronger than we expected for the quarter.
As Dave and Rodney have both said every department inside the store had positive ID sales.
So it was a pretty good broad-based improvement across the whole complex.
There's always rough spots anytime you have to do as many things as we do.
There's always things that could be better.
But we were pretty happy with the overall balance inside the quarter.
Research Division</strong> As you look at the year how big do you think the overall ID drag could be from pharmacy because of the generic effects? And do you think it makes sense to maybe call out the ID without the pharmacy in some of these future quarters? We've made a commitment to talk about the pharmacy as we go throughout the year and try to describe the effect of that.
I don't want to commit right now what I will give or not give and we'll look at that throughout the year.
There's just so many moving parts with some moderating inflation some higher gross profit rates from generics the addition of Express Scripts.
It's kind of early in the game if you will to make a decision on exactly how we'll break that out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- can you -- any way you can give us a magnitude on how big the overall drag effect could be for the whole year? We think for the whole year it could be as much as 50 basis points drag on IDs.
But it will be increasing as we go throughout the year to Dave's earlier comment.
Your next question will come from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Just to follow up on a couple of questions earlier.
The talk with the CPG companies moving into the back half of the year and how they got huge margins looking back to '08 '09 if that happens again how much leverage does Kroger have to push back on CPG companies to bring down their pricing? Well first let me comment that since it's 11:00 this will be our last question.
[Indiscernible] Oh we'll have time for one more.
Okay.
Before we get to that I wanted to make sure you had a time reference here.
But in thinking about CPG companies one of the reasons Rodney pointed out about our Kroger brands and its success and we had continuous success in the first quarter was to illustrate that we do have leverage particularly when the underlying commodity economics don't match what's happening in the market.
We of course would experience some of the same costs that other manufacturers would experience.
But when they stray from those basic economics we have pretty good leverage.
Do you want to add anything on that? No no.
I think that's how we see that and so we feel actually pretty good about it.
The other thing I actually would add and I've said this several quarters is at Kroger we have had really good success and we have partnered with a number of national brand vendors in very successful ways.
And so we have a number of places where our tonnage is up with particular vendors because of plans that we've laid.
So that actually is some leverage too on the other direction because we have the capacity to produce really good results for individual companies out there.
Your final question will come from the line of Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask you 2 questions on your sales trends.
First Dave I think you said the volatility was pretty high in weekly ID sales.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Now is that a change in trend? Is that new? Or has that been sort of the way it's been for past few quarters or so? Well it's certainly been true in the last few quarters.
It's different than it was several years back.
And the reason I called it out is it makes it hard to read individual weeks.
And when you only have 3.5 weeks in a quarter and any of that included an end of the month or first of the month which are the hardest to read and especially when you have a 2-day shift because of the leap day that is now in our numbers so the first of the year in any future month this year is 2 days removed from where it was last year you see even more erratic swings in those weeks.
So I just think it's hard to read such short periods of time and you have to take a little longer to look at it.
That's really what I meant.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And the other question is on the slowing in ID sales you're describing kind of incrementally.
Should we think of that as basically all due to inflation and volume trends are kind of sticking around flat? Is that what you're trying to tell us? I think that's fairly close.
I mean a little more positive than that actually.
Because as you know it's hard -- it's really hard to read tonnage.
It may sound like it shouldn't be but it actually is because of the mix changes and all these other things.
And we're really trying hard to give you a fair picture of what we think is happening.
And it sounds contradictory but we don't think it is to say first as we clearly saw that tonnage is mildly in the positive direction from where it was last quarter.
But it's not so great that we're trying to call that up.
We're still calling that basically flat.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay great.
So it's a positive message not really a neutral message.
Before we end the call though I would like to share a few additional thoughts with our associates who listened in today.
We encourage them to listen and so I'll take just a minute or 2 of your time still.
I want to thank all of our associates for your tireless efforts to keep food safe for our customers and their families.
The International Association for Food Protection recently named Kroger the recipient of its Black Pearl Award for 2012 which recognizes excellence in food safety and advocacy.
Rodney and I are especially proud of you for this recognition.
Only 4 other retailers have been so recognized by this association.
I'm certain that what the association saw in Kroger is our success in continually raising the bar on food safety.
Keeping food safe for millions of our customers every day is a tremendous responsibility one that reflects our deepest commitment to putting customers first.
Food safety is everyone's fight every day.
Our latest program FAST which stands for food at safe temperatures reminds us to keep products below the low limits in cases minimize stocking time on refrigerated products and keeping cooler and freezer doors closed.
These simple steps help us serve safe and delicious food every day.
Thank you for this gift to our customers.
This completes our call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janeda.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our second quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] On behalf of all of us at Kroger we thank many of you for participating in our June survey.
We strive to be exceptional listeners at Kroger whether listening to our customers our associates or our shareholders.
We appreciated your time and honest assessments.
We are also hopeful that you can join us for our 2012 investor conference on October 16 in New York.
We look forward to seeing many of you next month for this important session with Kroger leadership.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's second quarter 2012 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I am pleased with Kroger's strong performance in the second quarter.
Kroger's shareholders once again benefited from our Customer 1st strategy.
Increased customer loyalty and solid cost controls allowed us to grow sales profitability and shareholder value.
In the second quarter we reported record second quarter earnings per share.
We increased identical supermarket sales for the 35th consecutive quarter.
We increased identical sales in every operating division and every store department.
We grew the number of loyal households in all divisions.
We increased FIFO operating profit by $47 million.
We increased tonnage over last year.
And we put Kroger's strong free cash flow to work for shareholders by repurchasing 23.7 million shares.
Based on the strength of our second quarter results and the higher-than-anticipated share repurchase activity we have raised our earnings per share guidance for the year and expect to achieve toward the upper end of our identical supermarket sales growth and earnings per share guidance.
Mike will have more to say on our guidance in a few minutes.
Our associates controlled costs and improved productivity in the second quarter saving money in places not important to customers so we can reinvest in places that are.
We target investments in the 4 keys of our strategy people products shopping experience and price to increase relevance with our customers.
Greater relevance inspires customer loyalty and grows both sales and profit as our second quarter results demonstrated.
This is what makes Kroger unique among food retailers our unrelenting focus on solving our customers' needs.
That we've achieved consistent ID sales growth demonstrates that our strategy resonates with customers and our increased earnings guidance demonstrates how this creates shareholder value.
Rodney will now discuss Kroger's positive business trends in the second quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Kroger leveraged operating expenses in the second quarter as OG&amp;A costs plus rent and depreciation without fuel were down 59 basis points as a percent of sales.
On this basis and excluding one-time items we have had 7 consecutive years of reductions in this metric.
And our year-to-date results set us up to achieve our eighth consecutive year.
We do this consistently through a determined emphasis on productivity improvements.
For example we've gained efficiencies in our 1 948 pharmacy locations by utilizing new technology that helps our pharmacists to better manage workflow prioritize prescriptions and allocate work between pharmacists and pharmacy technicians.
The increased productivity reduces customer wait times and provides an enhanced pharmacy experience.
One of the most important measures of our business is loyal household growth because it lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
During the second quarter our loyal household count grew at a faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
We also achieved positive identical sales for both total households and loyal households.
Identical sales growth among loyal households was stronger than total household result.
Customers continue to visit our stores more frequently purchase fewer items on each trip and buy more on a monthly basis.
This is consistent with what we've seen for the last several quarters.
We're very pleased with the improvement in our tonnage trend for the quarter as total units sold were up compared to last year.
I'll just repeat that.
Our total units our tonnage was up compared to last year.
This is an example of how we continue to gain market share in the overall food retailing industry by focusing on our customers.
The rate of product cost inflation in the second quarter continued to flatten faster than originally anticipated.
Identical supermarket sales growth exceeded the rate of inflation which we estimate was 2.2% excluding fuel.
Every store department had inflation with the exception of produce and seafood which were deflationary.
Our market share gains are a result of our investments in all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy.
People often talk about investments we make in price but there are many ways we have invested in our nonprice keys people products and shopping experience to strengthen our connection with customers in our stores.
For example over the last several years we've set out to improve the shopping experience by reducing customer wait time at checkout.
Customers have told us they do not like waiting in long lines.
Based on that feedback we developed a solution that has reduced the average amount of time a customer waits in line to check out to about 30 seconds today compared to around 4 minutes in the past.
Our customers tell us they noticed the difference and we are delivering a shopping experience that makes them want to return.
Our people and products keys are equally important.
We want our customers to say our associates provide helpful friendly service that they can always get the products they want plus a little at our stores.
A great example of how we are strengthening these 2 keys is through our partnership with Murray's Cheese.
Our stores are home to about 51 specialty Murray's Cheese shops.
In these locations we provide associates with the opportunity training and tools to become certified Murray's Cheese master associates like Jimmy Mraz [ph] from King Soopers store 33 in Boulder.
He participated in an in-depth 5-week training program that includes a basic skills class certification and an orientation at the original Murray's Cheese shop in New York City.
Jimmy [ph] returned to his Murray's Cheese shop with new skills a passion for sharing knowledge with our customers and the distinct red jacket that signifies his status as a cheese master.
Customers love the extra service and product expertise not to mention the incredibly selection of delicious cheeses of which I've tried many of.
As a result of these efforts our customers tell us that our associates are doing an increasingly good job of providing services.
That is why we consider our nonprice investments to be as central to Kroger's strategy as the price investments.
If you look at nearly any food retailer who is succeeding right now including the regional players they are doing something unique that resonates with customers.
We know from our 35 consecutive quarters of positive identical sales and consistent market share growth that our focus on all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy is driving loyalty which creates value for shareholders.
In the second quarter Kroger's corporate brands represented approximately 26.3% of grocery department sales dollars.
Grocery department corporate brand units sold were 33.5% compared to the same quarter last year.
These results continue to show improvement since the economic downturn began.
The mix between national brands and corporate brands fluctuates in any given quarter but corporate brands continue to gain share over time.
We continue to offer our customers choices and variety and value to meet their needs.
To complement the assortment of national brand single-serve coffee products we offer beginning next week we're launching our new line of Private Selection single-serve coffee pods.
The new line is compatible with Keurig coffee machines and will include a variety of 100% Arabica roasts and blends including breakfast blend Guatemala Swiss Water decaf and Venetian Reserve.
Yogurt is another popular and high-growth category with great potential.
Kroger's self-manufactures most of our yogurt selection.
We recently added 15 new varieties including new flavors such as Blueberry Pomegranate Caramel Spice Cake and Vanilla Bean.
For toddlers our new comfort yogurt bites [ph] are great and full of vitamins A C and E.
And I can tell you on the new yogurt flavors they taste great and I've tried over half of them already.
I'm happy to share that Kroger continues to advance sustainability initiatives.
We released our sixth annual Sustainability Report earlier this week and I'd like to share a few highlights.
We are using significantly less energy today than we were just 12 years ago.
In fact we've reduced our overall energy consumption in our stores by more than 31% since the year 2000.
19 of Kroger's manufacturing plants sent 0 waste to landfills in 2011.
And Kroger increased fleet efficiency by more than 9% in the past year and by more than 25% since 2008.
These are just a few examples of how we're working to make sure the world is a better place.
We are very proud of our progress and our associates' hard work to make these results positive -- possible.
Finally an update on labor relations.
Associates in Louisville and Dayton both ratified labor agreements.
We continue negotiations on many contracts including in Arizona Columbus Indianapolis Memphis Nashville and Portland.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide good wages a quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Next Mike will share additional detail on Kroger's second quarter financial results and guidance for 2012.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Our identical supermarket sales increased 3.6% in the second quarter which contributed to net earnings totaling $279.1 million compared to $280.8 million in the same period last year.
Net earnings per diluted share showed strong growth to $0.51 from $0.46 per diluted share last year.
Prior year net earnings benefited from a 27.6% tax rate compared to a tax rate of 34.5% in the second quarter this year.
Our earnings per share growth was driven by strong performance in sales and EBITDA and higher-than-anticipated share repurchase activity.
FIFO EBITDA was up $56 million for the quarter or $55 million excluding fuel.
FIFO gross margin was 20.63% of sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Excluding retail fuel operations the FIFO gross margin decreased 43 basis points from the same period last year.
Kroger recorded a $34.7 million LIFO charge in the second quarters of both 2012 and 2011.
Operating general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation were 18.01% of sales.
Excluding retail fuel operations OG&amp;A plus rent and depreciation declined 59 basis points as a percent of sales.
And as Rodney said we accomplished this for the last 7 years.
And based on our first half results we expect to achieve our eighth year.
Identifying and delivering sustainable operating cost reductions allows us to invest in all 4 keys of our Customer 1st strategy consistently over time.
Second quarter FIFO operating margin dollars increased $47 million both with and without fuel.
Excluding fuel on a rolling 4 quarters basis the company's operating margin rate was 3 basis points lower compared to last year.
This is an 8-point improvement in the trend from the first quarter.
We expect that slightly increasing FIFO operating margin excluding fuel for the full fiscal year.
Turning now to retail fuel operations.
Our supermarket fuel centers and convenience stores produced positive identical gallon growth for the quarter.
These outlets earned approximately $0.164 per gallon compared to $0.174 in the same quarter last year.
The benefit to second quarter earnings per share was the same as last year.
Now I'll update you on our financial strategy.
During fiscal 2012 Kroger plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain its current debt rating.
During the quarter we purchased 23.7 million common shares for a total investment of $525 million.
There is approximately $476 million currently remaining of the $1 billion share repurchase program authorized on June 14 2012.
Over the last 4 quarters Kroger has used its strong free cash flow to return more than $1.9 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $447.7 million for the quarter compared with $428.5 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect full year capital expenditures to be in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range.
Net total debt was $8.1 billion for the second quarter an increase of $1.2 billion from a year ago.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.96 compared to 1.71 during the same period last year.
Our objective is to maintain a net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 2.00.
We took advantage of what we believe to be an undervalued stock price in the second quarter to buy back shares.
Our experience through the first half of this year is that the external environment has been a little better than in 2011.
We continue to monitor changes in gas prices and inflation.
And as the headlines continually remind us macroeconomic issues will continue to affect consumer sentiment throughout the year.
We are confident in our ability to make tactical adjustments as needed to successfully navigate these factors while continuing to deliver on our Customer 1st strategy.
As a result of strong first half performance and higher-than-anticipated share repurchase activity Kroger is increasing its fiscal 2012 earnings guidance to a range of $2.35 to $2.42 per diluted share.
The company continues to expect identical supermarket sales growth for the full year excluding fuel of 3% to 3.5%.
Kroger expects to achieve in the upper end of the range for both earnings per share and sales growth.
The previous earnings per share guidance was a range of $2.33 to $2.40.
We continue to expect the growth rate in the third and fourth quarters will be higher than our long-term growth rate of 6% to 8% and the fourth quarter will also benefit from the 53rd week.
Now I'll return it back to Dave.
Mike thank you.
There's no doubt that Kroger has a bright future because of our growing connection with our customers.
Since we've changed how we managed our business about 8 years ago we have seen significant success.
Every day our associates are delivering better shopping experience for our customers and our customers continue to reward us with their loyalty.
Kroger's increased earnings per share guidance for the year reflects our confidence that our Customer 1st strategy will continue to create value for our customers and shareholders alike.
Of course an ever-changing environment requires vigilance and constant evaluation.
And with that in mind we hope that you'll join us for an important discussion of our plans for continued success at the upcoming October investor conference in New York.
So now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you just help us understand the growth in tonnage this quarter maybe versus the past 3? It sounds like it's improving in terms of overall growth.
But maybe just help us understand the actual numbers.
Well the tonnage trend and growth has increased because as we said in the last 2 quarters I believe we were essentially flat and now we're seeing actual growth.
We did see a little bit more growth in national brands than we did Kroger brands but we saw growth overall.
And that's probably the extent of the color.
Rodney you want to add anything? I'll just say it's very broad-based.
Most categories had growth.
And it's really been driven by the increased loyalty from the customers with the household count flowing through to buy in more products.
That's what's really driving it.
Research Division</strong> Can you point to anything specifically that you're doing? Or what do you think at this point in the game is driving it? Well I think it's multiple things.
I think the lower inflation rate is certainly helping some.
Certainly if you look at some of our work with dunnhumby and targeted mailings there's certain segments we weren't satisfied with the result we were getting.
And we've worked real hard on making some targeted offers for those customers and they're rewarding us with increased purchases.
So it's really both of those pieces together and then just an overall improvement in household count shopping with us.
Research Division</strong> When did the queuing initiative start? And how have you been communicating that to existing customers and maybe nonexisting customers? It really started probably about 3 3.5 years ago in terms of learning how to do it.
It involves a tremendous amount of work with our associates and technology behind the scenes to support our associates.
So it's really both working together.
It probably took a year or so to get to where all of that was working together and then it took a couple of years to get it rolled out across the company.
The way we communicate it to our customers is really letting our associates in the advertising tell -- our associates tell our customers what they're doing for them.
Research Division</strong> Because I would say as somebody myself who's in your stores a lot I mean now you go in and you're like "Where is everyone?" And when you get to the front of the line it's just that they're getting to your line so quickly.
I mean that's the experience.
And so I just wondered if you thought that was having any impact on the tonnage as well.
Certainly it has to help some because the customer realizes they can come to Kroger and get out really fast so it has to help.
Everything we're doing Deb is designed to cause customers to want to shop with us more of their shopping trip.
And this is certainly one really good example.
But there's of course lots of other things we're doing.
But all of those contribute to that trend.
Research Division</strong> All right.
One last question out there.
Any plans with regards to bringing your corporate brands available to consumers outside of where you have stores through e-commerce? I was just thinking about how great that coffee pod sounded.
At this point not directly now.
From using a website I would expect sometime in not the forever future that you'll see that.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 2 things.
One if you think about the expense opportunity I assume the bulk of it is going to be in the store right where the bulk of the costs are where do you think there's still a large opportunity to take some costs down? You've done some work at the front end.
But if you think about backroom if you think about just some of the perishable departments maybe grocery if you do think about it a little more like that where do you think the 1 or 2 biggest opportunities are to continue to take labor out? Well it won't surprise you John that we won't identify the specific things going out there.
But I will identify a couple of observations.
First the best way to save in our kind of business is in lots of different ways.
They can be multiplied by the number of stores and by our volume.
And by the way it's definitely not all focused on just taking labor hours out.
In fact more of what we're trying to do is find ways to reduce the labor required for some tasks that don't matter to the customer and then spend those same labor hours on things that do matter to the customer like getting them through the front end quicker.
So it's not so much -- in fact we've grown number of employees this year.
We've end up growing hours in our stores.
All of that is on the upswing.
So really what we're trying to do is be more effective in the tasks that just simply don't matter and apply the resources in places that actually do.
We see plenty of opportunities out there not all of them have to do with things that people do.
A lot of them have to do with things that are not involving labor.
Rodney? Well if you look at the sustainability that we talked about obviously for the environment it's a tremendous improvement in sustainability and helping make the world a better place.
But it also saves a lot in cost because if you think about the 19 plants that have 0 waste to landfill well we're not taking stuff to landfill so that cost is no longer there.
So it's not just labor in the stores where we're able to find costs and we have a long list of opportunities.
And it's really prioritizing in terms of how many can you do at a time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Because I think -- tell me if I'm wrong but I would think just on a kind of normalized basis normal cost inflation in your cost items you'd be 2% to 3%.
So I guess the question is because you've done a much better job the last couple of years can 1 to 2 -- can you grow -- and then some of this will depend on the comp.
But if 2% to 3% is the right number on an ongoing basis should O&amp;A grow lower than that as you take some of these costs out? Or was that too optimistic? Well you'll see us work awfully hard not to have a 2% to 3% base inflation.
And we do an awful lot of partnering with our suppliers and vendors to try to understand how can we work together to take cost out of the system both for them and for us.
So as of right now I wouldn't -- you shouldn't assume that we'll have a 2% to 3% cost increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Then just finally just describe where do you think the M&amp;A environment is right now? I know you want to do more in-store or in-market transactions if you can.
But where's the environment? And is there any appetite for entirely new markets or not really in the economic environment we're in today? I feel like I ought to just pull out the script from speech number 47 because the same thing we've said for many quarters in a row is still true today is that we look at lots of stuff.
We find that end-market things seem to be more successful and appealing to us.
Big things are things we're going to be very selective about and that we don't comment on anything that we're taking a look at.
Now you just need to recognize that we are regularly looking at things that are out there.
I don't really see the environment any different and I don't see our strategy or plans any different than they have been for the last several quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dave just wondering if you could share with us how the ID trended during the quarter.
And if you could how quarter to date trends are looking so far.
Let's see if I remember correctly -- I'm looking for confirmation -- but I think it was gently down through the quarter.
And some of that though you should recognize and it's what I'll also say about current quarter is that one of the big effects this year has been the switch to generic from national brand on some of the prescription items.
And in prescriptions of pharmacy particularly that has a huge dollar impact.
So that swing drives not only pharmacy but it's big enough actually to show up in our numbers.
So that could actually be part of what we saw in the trend in the quarter.
If you look at the current quarter to date so far we are slightly down from where we were last quarter.
But I wouldn't read too much into that for these kinds of reasons.
One was the example I gave before is we do see the pharmacy generic shift gaining steam as the year goes by and actually every week it does.
We see volatility between weeks which is what we described last quarter.
That volatility is driven this year a little bit more than normal at the end of the month because of the 2-day shift with having an extra day in February.
That 2-day shift makes it more pronounced.
This last month end was quite similar to the things we've experienced earlier in the year.
But it does cause those volatile shifts.
And then finally we see electronic benefits in some states as shifting to smooth the way in which those benefits are paid out to the community at large and no longer headed up just to the person above.
So that tends to smooth it out a bit and give us that variability.
So that's maybe a picture for you to understand where we are so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there has been a lot of chatter throughout the past couple of months on the competitive landscape and just wondering if you could give us your sense of things.
Competitive landscape is what it always is in our business.
It's always changing in where the aggressiveness is coming from and in what markets it's in.
But it certainly is competitive just like it has been for a long time.
You've read and seen a lot of noise about some competitors who have been out there and certainly that's true.
But there are other competitors who maybe are a little less aggressive than they were.
And like I said there's just always a change over time but it's always going to be competitive.
And that's the way it is right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then one for Mike.
Just any thoughts on the dividend yields only around 2% pretty low relative to many of your peers and other CPG companies.
Any thoughts on raising that down the road? We regularly talk about the dividend with our Board of Directors and our stated policy has been that this is -- we only have been paying a dividend for 6 years and we've continued to grow it over time.
And we would expect to continue to grow our dividend over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Question about generics which you mentioned is having a negative impact on sales.
Obviously it should be having a positive impact on gross margin.
First I'd like to confirm that that's true.
That's definitely true.
Now we're talking about pharmacy.
And that is absolutely true.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering how you look at that.
It's obviously not going to continue forever.
It didn't happen as much last year.
Do you see that as a windfall and that you are happy to spend that extra gross margin to the extent that there was a lot of it in better pricing or some other investment 1 of your 4 keys? We wouldn't be as specific only looking at one item.
We would be looking at everything together along with what cost reductions we feel like we can achieve.
And then working with dunnhumby we would look at where's the most effective use of improving our pricing position for our customers.
So it's part of helping out in terms of what dollars we would have to invest.
But it's not specifically oriented just to that one item.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just a question on your labor negotiations.
I just was wondering if you could kind of talk about kind of the tone of the negotiations where the focus is.
Are there particular concerns in particular markets about health care pension? And some of the contracts you mentioned that you're still negotiating have any of those gone beyond their contract expiration? I'll let Rodney comment on any specifics he wants to add.
But let me just tell you generally that our working relationship with the unions generally continues to be good and it's something that we're committed to making sure that we have that good working relationship.
And I think a lot of that is driven by the fact that as a company our objective is to be balanced in what we end up with in our agreements.
We're not out to just cut costs and cut expenses.
Our objective is to make sure our employees our associates end up with a really good compensation package and we end up with a cost structure that makes us competitive.
And that continues to be true.
Now in individual contracts of course those end up being negotiations with the local presidents.
And often those will end up individually being different than maybe that overall trend.
And it's really up to whatever those local situations are.
Sometimes there are particular issues in the contract that are problematic.
Now overall if you look at pension and health care those have for many years and continue for many more years to be a focus of attention because that's where a lot of the growth of expense is.
And in some of those parts it's where some of our uncompetitive expenses are.
So we've paid a lot of attention in the negotiations.
So Rodney you want to add any color to that? Just a couple of small comments.
Many of the contracts are passed expiration.
The thing that all of us have been very pleased with is our associates the union and us just trying to make sure that we work through the issues on a constructive basis.
And the dialogue and discussion has been very constructive.
Obviously with health care and the changes going on there a lot of discussion in terms of how to do it right.
One other point that I would just remind everyone if you remember the pension for most of the east part of the U.S.
has been already negotiated because of the agreement that we did last year where 4 of the major plans came in and we are now managing those plans.
And as part of that change there was a 10-year agreement on the pension part of those plans.
Yes.
Of the 6 contracts that we mentioned in the prepared remarks 4 of those Columbus Indianapolis Memphis and Nashville those 4 locations have the pension benefits solved for the next 10 years.
Research Division</strong> Well that's great.
That's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could I just start off with the gross margin.
The FIFO gross margin x fuel this quarter down 43 basis points is probably a bit more than I expected it would be because your comparison is easier.
Could you maybe just talk about how that line item played out throughout the quarter and what influence for instance the cost savings you got this quarter went into that or promotional environment or just initiatives that drive tonnage and how we should be thinking about that in the second half? Well I wouldn't suggest in the numbers that there is anything particularly unusual or erratic in terms of the merchandising plans or anything.
Maybe one thing that does stand out is that we had less success and strength than we have had in the previous year.
And that will tend to hurt the gross margin and make it look like there was a greater investment than there actually was.
That was -- and that was true in the quarter something we're focused on.
So that may be important to call out.
Rodney or Mike anything else you want to add? The other thing to keep in mind at as you know we try to manage the company on what operating profit margin is not just gross.
And while you're right the FIFO gross margin without fuel was down 43 basis points the operating costs were down 59 basis points.
So we actually had a nice expansion in operating profit during the quarter which are the dollars that we actually have to take to the bottom line.
Yes.
That is something we look at a lot more closely than just in isolation what the gross margin was.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I understand.
And then just maybe related to SG&amp;A then.
And John I think kind of asked this question a little but your SG&amp;A growth this quarter in dollars was only 1.3%.
And if I go back and average the last 5 years or so right that number is more like 4%.
So the question is is there anything unusual on this quarter number one? And then second as we think about that line item going forward should we be thinking about a lower run rate than what you've had historically? Well I'll let Mike talk if there's any specifics that he had to call out.
But before he does well I like the way in which you characterized it as look at the growth of the dollars in our OG&amp;A and we look at really OG&amp;A and rent and depreciation together.
But as you look at those dollars growing -- but the only basis that that metric that percentage has any value at all is to look at it in the context of how much did the sales grow and how much did the gross profit dollars grow.
Because if you don't do that if you had a high sales growth period of time we have a lot of variable expenses.
And so that will tend to create a higher growth in expenses and make it look like we have expense issues when in fact all we had was really good sales.
Well our sales growth these last several years we've had some higher quarters in sales growth than what we had just these last couple of quarters.
And that will drive some of it.
Mike you want to add any color to the specifics? Yes.
There's always lots of things going on in the SG&amp;A line.
And obviously inside any 12-week quarter lots of things can drive it.
I will keep in -- I want to remind everybody to keep in mind going back to the pension benefit we talked about a second ago when we consolidated those 4 plans we took that charge in the fourth quarter of last year for over $900 million and we increased our guidance this year because of the benefit of the reduction on an annual basis that that was going to give us during this year.
Now as we start to lap future years that comparison goes away.
So we are benefiting this year from lower pension expense for those 14 contracts and 4 different plans that were consolidated into one.
But that was baked into our guidance.
And if you go back and see what we talked about on guidance we actually promised more than our normal growth rate because of that benefit because we made you eat the charge last year so we have to give you the benefit back this year.
Otherwise it wasn't a smart thing to do for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question for you.
With the resolution of the Walgreens and Express Scripts dispute can you maybe talk about the benefit that you saw there this year and what plans you have in order to try to retain or keep that business? I'll let Rodney comment on the plans we have there because obviously that's been an important trend for our pharmacy business.
Rodney? Yes.
Obviously I won't go into the specifics because starting September 15 it will start playing out and we won't want to share what our plans are before September 15 and the customers see it.
The one thing that you should know is that we have done a lot of research to make sure that we understand those customers what they like about Kroger what they liked about Walgreens.
And we've aggressively worked on trying to make sure the things that those customers liked better about Walgreens we've changed that.
The thing that they incredibly overwhelmingly told us they liked was the one-stop the value the pricing that we offer and those things customers are really satisfied with where we are there which we think will really help on the stickiness for those customers.
But we're working really hard.
Our pharmacy teams from the store to the folks in the divisions and general office are working really hard to make sure they have a good plan to retain that customer.
Your next question comes from the line of Karen Short with BMO Capital.
Just going back to generics for a second.
I know you've given us directional comments on the third and fourth quarter in terms of how generics will impact your ID.
I guess I just was wondering it sounds like that there will be a greater impact in the fourth quarter than there will be in the third.
So can you just talk about that? And then was there actually an impact this quarter? And can you quantify it? Well as we've said all along with our guidance we expect the effect of the generics to grow over time.
And a lot of it was going to be back end-weighted.
We talked when we gave guidance that it could be as much as a 40 to 50 basis point effect on idents for the year.
And again that could be back end-weighted.
So clearly it could be higher in the year.
I will tell you that the annual -- or the weekly effect of the generics on top line sales is a little over double almost triple on a weekly basis in terms of dollar sales now as it was earlier in the year.
So it is growing just as we expect it.
But again as Meredith's question we continue to see strong gross margin out of those.
And that 0.5% is on total identicals for the company not just pharmacy identicals.
Okay.
And then actually following on that then in terms of generics can you maybe quantify how much the benefit of the generic shift will be on gross margins how much it was this quarter and how much it might be in the back half? I don't think we want to get that granular on the pharmacy business.
We believe we've baked into our guidance and expectations for the year both the drag on the top line and what that will do to the leverage in the income statement as well as the better gross profit rate from those as we go throughout the year.
To get that specific on any one department gets really really difficult because there's all kinds of things that go on inside of a quarter in a particular department.
I would add that don't overestimate that effect.
It certainly is positive clearly positive for the pharmacy.
But the dollars themselves are not significant enough to move the total company numbers much.
Not like what happens with the sales.
Okay.
And then on your square footage growth I know you commented earlier this summer at a conference that you might look to accelerate unit growth.
And you have kind of raised your guidance just a little bit this year.
What kind of unit growth might we think of for next year? Or how do you think about that? Yes.
It's a little too early to get into what I think we may have as far as unit growth this year.
The new relocated and expanded stores we're doing it is a little more than last year.
The remodels are about the same.
One of the things that's driving that is it looks like we may have a few fewer operational closings this year.
And our mid-year look at our store count it would project us to be up slightly at year end on store count.
And if you look at the square footage our guidance in the 8-K we said we expect square footage excluding operational closings and any acquisitions to be up about 1.5%.
So we continue to invest those dollars to grow our core business while on the other hand spending some time cleaning up things that aren't producing a satisfactory return.
We've done that we haven't had any one-time charges for those.
As we've closed those stores they've just flown through normal operations.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Cullinane in for Scott.
Some of this has been touched on but kind of wanted to look at uses of cash as a whole and how you think it's best to maintain or build your business in your core or adjacent markets.
You've been buying back a lot of shares and maybe -- clearly if confidence is high in the business you could increase the dividend or also use the cash to solidify market positions in places like Southern California or add new stores into adjacent markets.
Can you give us some flavor on your thoughts on current uses for cash and your priorities given the current climate? Well I think right now we're fairly balanced in how we plan to use our free cash flow.
And keep in mind it's not necessarily just free cash flow.
I'll remind you that our net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio is at 1.96 now it was 1.71 last year.
So we've actually increased our debt level as well to the debt level we feel comfortable at maintaining.
And I think we've done a very balanced approach between paying a dividend which we've increased every year since we've had one.
We've been very active in repurchasing shares when we think there's significant weakness in the stock which we've demonstrated so far this year.
And we continue to expect to spend $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion on capital this year.
So I think we've had a very disciplined and very balanced approach to how we spend our capital and try to reward all constituents whether it's building new stores to create new jobs paying a dividend and buying in shares to reward shareholders but also making sure that our debt and leverage ratios are appropriate for our bondholders.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate it.
And then just wanted to touch on some competitive openings.
Walmart has stated they're going to open a number of new stores over the next few quarters and hinted at the possibility of kind of accelerating their small-box openings.
How do you view if there's a lot more small-box openings to come online next year? And secondly you've obviously operated for a long time very well with Walmart in your backyard.
Any change in approach if there were to be a significant acceleration in any small-box openings? I think I feel like you answered the question for us by saying we've operated quite well when Walmart has been a significant factor in our markets.
I see it exactly that way.
And sure there's some change in what their strategy is.
But it's the same issue is making sure that we stay attentive to what our customers want in those markets and respond appropriately.
Rodney you want to add anything? No.
I mean just your comment on really focusing on the customer.
And our customers tell us there's a lot of things that we do a lot better than Walmart and we have to make sure that we keep doing that and delivering against that.
Yes.
In fact I would add one other element maybe is that in this last quarter in the second quarter some of the things that you just described about Walmart planning to do they actually have already done some of that in several of our markets.
And that's reflected and contained in the overall results that we achieved in the second quarter.
So think about it in that context.
Your next question comes from the line of Robby Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick follow-ups.
One question I had was just on your fuel business and the CPG assumption that you're using in your guidance for the back half of the year.
It looks like that this was a really good CPG quarter.
And I'm assuming also if you could tell us was it above-planned CPG quarter for you against such a strong result last year.
And then also related to your gas business how does the competitive environment look? Walmart's brought back the Murphy's deal.
I think they just announced that this week.
And I think some others like Safeway are going to be aggressive again with using fuel as an offering.
And any color on that would be great.
Well on the fuel business relative to the CPG the cents per gallon were obviously down a little bit compared to last year as we said in the prepared remarks almost $0.01 or actually right at a $0.01.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But I'm assuming you were -- that was a great CPG last year.
I'm assuming that you might have been planning it down even more than what you saw.
Well I mean actually it's not dramatically different than what our expectation was for this time of the year looking at the dollars of EBITDA that the fuel centers generated during the quarter.
And earnings per share were exactly flat.
And that was really driven by the ID gallon growth as well as unit growth multiplied by the lower cents per gallon.
So it's not just that cents per gallon it's also our expectation of how we can grow identical gallons and the fact we continue to build more units.
And then your additional question related to the promotions of fuel rewards at Walmart and Safeway are the 2 that you called out.
And I would just put that in the same terms of what we talked about the competitive environment.
There are always things happening with your competitors and with you.
One of the advantages we have is over 1 000 fuel stations that are at our stores or just right down the block from our stores that are ours.
And we also have a partnership of course with Shell as you are probably aware.
And then I don't want to lose track of the fact that we've got hundreds of convenience stores around the country too many of -- most of which have gasoline.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up on the last question.
So with the Walmart Market Basket Challenge ad campaign so are you sort of saying you have seen an impact in the markets that they've run against you with those ads? Actually that's not quite what I meant to say if that's what I said.
What I meant to say was Walmart has done those activities that were being described adding new stores growing their neighborhood stores and now you'd add to the mix the advertising program on pricing and that those were out there last quarter.
And that our results as a company for the last quarter include the fact that that has happened in those markets.
I wasn't trying to describe that it had an impact I'm just trying to describe that it was included within the overall results that we achieved.
We of course have seen the same ads that you've seen.
And Walmart has as they've described been more aggressive in their advertising on those themes.
And keep in mind all of our geographies had all of our divisions had positive idents.
Yes.
I think that's important for us to call out is how broad-based our results were.
It was all divisions all departments.
And we even called out that every division grew loyal households as well which is quite important when you think about the competitive environment.
Research Division</strong> And the 55 neighborhood markets that they're opening over the next 6 months here so pretty good acceleration for them.
Do you have a sense if a lot of those are going to be targeting your markets or not? They won't tell us so I was just curious if you guys are expecting...
And so you think we'll tell you? Sorry.
But we of course watch that very closely and we know in markets what's being built and what's being planned.
We pay close attention to that.
But that's not something we're going to talk about on this call.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the inflation outlook.
You mentioned that inflation cooling had helped your volumes in the quarter.
Given the drought where do you think inflation is going in 2013? And maybe just give us a little color on the current quarter on the branded inflation versus the perishables.
I'll let Mike comment in a second about our forecast on inflation.
But I would just add a little bit of color.
Last quarter when we talked about this we commented that we did expect -- continued to expect inflation to decline during this year.
Our LIFO estimate certainly suggests that.
And we did see that in the quarter.
We also described that we expected last quarter we described that as inflation came down we expected some tonnage to improve because there would be less resistance by customers to buy the product.
But we acknowledged that it wasn't deflation that prices weren't going down.
It's just that they weren't going up at the same clip.
And I think that's proving out is that the inflation was down this quarter.
Our tonnage has gradually begun to improve a bit.
And that's all good news and in the direction that we had expected it to be.
Mike can give a little bit of color to what we expect going forward.
And you may want to add to his question about perishables and national brands if you want to add any color to that.
Yes.
It's a little early to start giving guidance for 2013.
But just relative to the drought I don't think the drought is going to have a huge effect on our inflation expectations for this year.
And if it does it would be very late in the year.
I think a lot of the things like proteins and that will probably go down before they start to go up next year.
I do think that the current situation will have some effect on inflation next year.
I would look for things like proteins to get higher mill prices will probably get higher the cost of raw milk will probably get higher as the cost of feed goes up.
But you also have to keep that in mind and balance it that the whole inflation picture isn't driven just by corn and wheat and soybeans.
You have coffee out there you have sugar out there you have orange juice out there.
You have other commodities out there all of which go into a lot of food products that are in the mix of what inflation does that have gone the other way.
So when you balance it all out and we called out the produce and seafood for example this quarter had deflation.
So when you balance it all out I don't -- I want to have a little bit more time to see what the crop actually comes in at.
But I'm not overly concerned about it at this point but it's certainly something that as we start thinking about 2013 what effect it could have in certain areas of the store and the effect on the consumer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how about any of the growing regions where your perishables are coming from and maybe color on the current quarter on perishables versus branded items? If you look at the perishables particularly in the produce department it continued to be a fairly good growing season for those products and the products were plentiful.
I'm just trying to remember what produce inflation -- actually produce continued to be deflationary in the second quarter.
So when you talk about perishables singularly in the produce category it was deflationary.
Meat was less inflation and seafood was deflation.
Milk costs today are down from where they were last year and actually below the 5-year moving average.
But as we get later this year and into next year most forecasts would have milk prices going back up above the 5-year average and probably back up above where they were last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the center store inflation is cooling? Or what's going on there in center store? Yes.
Grocery continued to decline.
Keep in mind grocery does include milk on a trend basis.
It's not deflation it's less inflation.
Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we could look at the second half of the year what are you thinking about the impact of rising fuel prices on 2 things the effectiveness of Fuel Rewards programs and a tolerance among consumers for shelf price inflation? Well as we've talked about before while I always worry about what happens with fuel pricing because of its impact on the psyche of the customer and the actual cash that they have in their wallet we actually think it's probably a net-net slight positive in our direction.
Fuel Rewards of course helps us.
And having those over 1 000 fuel stations at our stores helps us.
Our street prices on gas are quite competitive.
And as a result we are a place that customers find some reprieve really to the extent they can get any reprieve as the cost goes up.
So I think that's how we see that.
I don't think from the grocery store point of view it's pure and simple to what extent does the customer have money to spend in the grocery store.
And if it were to go up substantially a big sharp increase I think the customers would see less money in their pockets.
And I think you'd see some reaction overall in retail.
But I think we would be less affected if that were to occur.
The only other thing I would add is any time when fuel prices hit new highs that's when customer reactions change.
So if whatever the last cycle was the last cycle a lot of people had the $4 mark in their mind.
Well if fuel goes up to $4.25 or $4.50 the reaction will probably be different than just the price difference.
And then the other thing in terms of Dave mentioned overall we think it would be -- it's slightly beneficial to us that just the absolute convenience of our stores when fuel prices are high our stores are so close to most of our customers most of our customers only have to drive 1 mile 1.5 miles to get to our stores.
So it's incredibly convenient and it's a one-stop shop.
So that is also another thing that we think helps.
Switching subjects a little bit.
The tax rate versus a year ago was quite a bit higher.
Mike what kind of guidance can you give us for the full year or the second half on Kroger's tax rate? Yes.
Well what we said in the 8-K this morning is we expect it to be around 36% for the third and fourth quarter.
Your last question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on some of the questions earlier.
First on the pharmacy side last quarter you had provided some good detail on the comp rate and what was attributable to Express Scripts.
I think you had referenced double-digits and about half.
Is there any way you can give us an update on that in the second quarter? If you look in the second quarter it would be right at half again maybe just slightly higher than half.
And then I'd just remind everybody Mike's comment if you look at -- the generics obviously had a big impact and Mike mentioned that's negatively affected by 0.5% on our total identicals from the generics.
Research Division</strong> And so that was -- okay.
And then second follow-up I guess would be on the cost side.
Could you maybe quantify the percentage of your cost basis that is variable versus fixed? And is that variable on tonnage? Or is that on total sales growth? Well I remember when I took a cost accounting class that it seemed pretty simple that costs were either fixed or variable.
But in fact in our business most costs have elements of each.
And so it's really hard to describe it.
So take labor as an example.
One of our biggest cash expenses but it's also one of our most important investments.
You look at labor and there's a high variability component to it but there's also a certain fixed component to it too.
So we have to have a certain amount of staff there to open a pharmacy.
But as volume grows you don't have to add quite as much staff as it goes.
So I can't really help you with your modeling in that sense but you can almost do it just by looking over a course of years what our expenses have done.
One of the things to keep in mind -- and we've obviously been very focused on driving our sales which results in higher sales per square footage over the last several years.
Stores at a certain sales level almost all of the costs are fixed because you have to have that certain amount of labor.
Once you get sales above a certain weekly amount or a certain sales per square foot everything becomes variable.
And that's where you really start to leverage all those fixed costs just to run a store regardless of what the sales are.
And that's one of the reasons that as we continue to have more and more consecutive quarters of ID sales growth why that's been so important in being a big lever in helping us leverage those costs because a big piece of them are fixed just to turn the lights on every day.
Before we wrap up I do have a couple of closing comments.
I often like to share additional thoughts with associates because we encourage our associates to listen in.
So let me close with these thoughts.
Later this month we will begin our annual Giving Hope a Hand campaign to support the fight against breast cancer.
This year 48 of our associates shared their personal stories of survival and hope.
And that will be featured on specially marked packages of national and corporate brand products.
These items will be sold exclusively in our stores across the country from September 23 to October 10.
Since this campaign began in 2006 249 brave women have shared their experiences inspiring many others to fight breast cancer and survive.
And I'm always grateful to their courage to do so.
And in that same time we've also raised more than $20 million for breast cancer treatment research and education.
And all of the donations go to local organizations fighting breast cancer and the communities that we call home.
In 2012 with the help of key vendor partners we will raise $3 million more.
Our associates and their stories will also be featured on sharingcourage.com later this month a special website that includes a Wall of Hope where visitors can post messages of support and share their own experiences.
I encourage you each to read our coworkers' inspiring stories.
They are truly remarkable.
That completes the call today.
Thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Derek and thank you everyone for your patience while we work out these technical issues.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our third quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
If you're on the call it probably means you did not win the Powerball last night.
We do apologize for the technical phone difficulties we had earlier and thank you for sticking with us.
With me to review Kroger's third quarter 2012 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We are obviously delighted about the numbers we just released.
Both our GAAP and our adjusted earnings per share growth are the result of the powerful foundation that we have laid for our business to grow.
Our core business drove earnings per share growth by more than 20%.
This strong result excludes the 2 items identified in our earnings release and the swing in LIFO from year to year.
This was a remarkable quarter by several measures.
We achieved our 36th consecutive quarter positive ID supermarket sales growth we realized a record third quarter earnings per share we increased total FIFO operating profit dollars and we saw the highest increase in unit movement since the second quarter of 2010.
This quarter illustrates that the strength of our core business positions Kroger to accelerate our earnings per share growth.
The economy is slowly improving but value customers are still struggling.
We continue to monitor changes in gas prices and inflation.
Customer concern over fuel and energy costs lessened as gas prices declined through the quarter.
Rodney will have more to say about declining inflation shortly which contributed to the growth in our unit movement in the quarter.
Overall consumer confidence is up but it remains fragile.
Uncertainty around issues like the fiscal cliff can have a short-term impact on consumer sentiment as we saw last year during the debt ceiling debate.
Kroger is well positioned to successfully navigate through these factors.
I'd like to say thank you again for your participation in the Investor Conference in New York City last month.
The purpose of that event was to outline for you our plans to accelerate Kroger's earnings growth.
We're implementing our long-term growth strategy and we are committed to achieving fully diluted earnings per share growth of 8% to 11% plus a higher dividend over time supported by targeting capital expenditures to grow our business in new and existing markets leveraging dunnhumby insights to solve varied customer needs through both traditional and digital channels and continuing our share buyback program.
That is what we believe will grow Kroger and shareholder value and we are bullish about our future.
Rodney will now discuss how Kroger is executing our growth plans and our positive business results in the third quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
It is definitely an exciting time at Kroger.
We have aligned our senior leadership team to accelerate our growth strategy.
All across the business our associates are executing to deliver growth results.
In 2013 we plan to build expand or relocate 50 supermarkets compared to 40 expected this year.
We are making good progress adding square footage in 4 fill-in markets and others are being identified based on various metrics.
We are narrowing the list of new markets for future expansion.
Earlier this month we announced that Kroger will acquire the outstanding shares of Axium Pharmacy a leading specialty pharmacy that provides specialized drug therapies and support services for patients with complex medical conditions.
Axium has the skills Kroger doesn't have and Kroger's size can help Axium grow.
Offering specialty pharmacy services will give our customers greater access to drugs we currently can't dispense and access to additional services that we don't provide today.
We're very excited about this new partnership.
One of the most important measures of our business is loyal household growth because it lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
During the third quarter we grew the number of loyal households in all divisions.
Our loyal household count grew at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
We also achieved positive identical supermarket sales growth for all households.
ID sales growth among loyal households outpaced total household growth.
Customers continue to visit our stores more frequently and buy more on a monthly basis.
Customers also purchased more items on each trip a welcome change from what we've seen for the last several quarters.
As a result total units sold were up compared to last year.
This tonnage growth confirms our belief that we continue to make market share gains in the overall food retailing industry.
The rate of product cost inflation in the third quarter continued to flatten faster than originally anticipated.
We estimate the rate of inflation declined to 1.4% excluding fuel.
Once again every store department had inflation with the exception of produce and seafood which both were deflationary.
Now before I discuss our sales results there are a couple events that affected our pharmacy and overall identical supermarket sales results that I want to share.
The growth in generic drugs reduced total identical supermarket sales by 1% in the quarter.
Our ability to attract and retain Express Script business has largely offset this effect.
The effect of generics is consistent with what we outlined at the start of this year.
I want to congratulate and thank our pharmacy teams for managing through a difficult year.
They have done a phenomenal job and that's an understatement.
We are also very pleased with our third quarter identical supermarket sales growth of 3.2% without fuel.
The cadence of identical sales throughout the year was balanced.
We've also had consistent sales trends through the year when you look at our identical sales excluding both fuel and pharmacy.
And I realize this is a number we normally don't give but we thought this quarter you would find it helpful.
On this basis and this is without fuel and pharmacy both identical sales were a strong 3.2% in the first quarter and 3.1% in the second and third quarters.
Moving now to Kroger's corporate brands.
We recently introduced our new Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic brands which are free from 101 artificial ingredients and preservatives that some customers have said they do not want in their foods.
Together these are our fastest growing brands and we are very excited about our early results.
Corporate brands represented approximately 26% of grocery department sales dollars in the third quarter and grocery department corporate brand units sold were 32.9%.
Some of the decline in corporate brand share in grocery is due to some CPG companies getting more aggressive and promoting certain items.
While we strive to grow the corporate brand part of our business over time we have long said our goal is to give the best value to our customers.
And in this quarter some of the national brands provided a great value.
The mix between national brands and corporate brands fluctuate in any given quarter and we continue to be the market leader in corporate brands.
Kroger leveraged operating expenses in the third quarter as OG&amp;A cost plus rent and depreciation without fuel and the 2 adjustment items were down 21 basis points as a percent of sales.
On this basis we have had 7 consecutive years of improvement in this metric and we expect to achieve our eighth consecutive year in 2012.
Last quarter I provided several examples of investments we are making in non-price keys of our Customer 1st Strategy: Our people products and shopping experience.
Today I'd like to share one of our great people initiatives that is designed to improve the health and wellness of our associates and keep our health care costs down.
Earlier this year we partnered with Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield to develop an innovative program to provide our associates with access to the top-performing health care providers for several common but expensive surgeries.
Participating associates pay less out of pocket at these facilities and benefit from higher quality of care.
Kroger pays about 15% less in these hospitals than at others for the same services even including travel costs.
We're excited to be on the leading edge of this kind of program and are pleased with the results so far.
We believe it improves our connection with our associates which in turn strengthens our connection with customers.
Finally an update on labor relations.
Associates in Arizona Columbus and Memphis have ratified labor agreements.
We continue negotiations on many contracts including Indianapolis Nashville and Portland for store clerks and a distribution center in Delaware Ohio.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide good wages a quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Next Mike will share additional detail on Kroger's third quarter financial results and guidance for the rest of the year.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
I'd like to also thank you for your participation in our investors meeting last month.
At that meeting we laid out 4 key performance targets for shareholders to measure our success including ID sales growth FIFO operating margin growth a stable and growing return on invested capital and market share growth.
We believe holding ourselves accountable for these key metrics will drive shareholder value.
We will measure our progress on the first 3 on a quarterly basis and continue to report market share growth on an annual basis at year end.
Rodney went into a lot of detail about the strength of our identical supermarket sales and our ability to leverage operating costs.
We are very pleased with our strong performance in these metrics.
FIFO gross margin was 20.35% of sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 25 basis points from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the third quarter totaled $316.5 million or $0.60 per diluted share.
This includes a $0.14 benefit from a settlement with Visa and MasterCard and a reduction in the company's obligation to fund the UFCW consolidated pension fund created in January.
Excluding the benefit of these 2 items because they were not the result of our normal operations Kroger's adjusted net earnings for the third quarter totaled $242.4 million or $0.46 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $195.9 million or $0.33 per diluted share.
I want to spend just a couple of minutes on LIFO.
Many of the items we discuss are on a FIFO basis.
We manage the company without regard to our LIFO charge.
When we develop our expectations for any given year we estimate LIFO last.
The reason for this is LIFO is merely an accounting convention.
We don't believe our operation should generate more or less EBITDA because LIFO was higher or lower in a given period of time.
As a result if LIFO was lower than the prior year our EPS growth rate will be higher than our targets.
And if LIFO is higher than the prior year our EPS growth rates will be lower than our targets.
This quarter is a good example.
We reduced our LIFO charge estimate to $125 million for the year.
Previously we internally estimated the LIFO charge at $150 million.
The change in LIFO benefited the quarter by $0.02 which you saw in the earnings that we reported.
Third quarter FIFO operating profit excluding the 2 adjustment items increased approximately $29 million over the prior year.
Excluding fuel and the adjustment items on a rolling 4 quarters basis the company's FIFO operating margin was 7 basis points lower compared to last year.
Kroger expects to have a slightly higher FIFO operating margin rate excluding fuel for the full 2012 fiscal year in line with our commitment to grow the rates slightly over time on a rolling 4 quarters basis.
Return on invested capital in the third quarter was 13.3% compared to 13.5% during the same period last year.
As I said in New York we are committed to growing ROIC over time.
Turning now to retail fuel operations.
We disclosed many items with and without fuel due to its effect on operating costs and gross rates.
But we view fuel as a core department that over time is expected to contribute to earnings per share growth.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the third quarter our supermarket fuel centers margin per gallon was approximately $0.149 cents per gallon compared to $0.13 in the same quarter last year.
Our planned uses of cash remain unchanged: To fund capital expenditures repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain our current investment-grade debt rating.
Capital expenditures excluding acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $473.5 million for the third quarter compared with $497 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect full year capital expenditures to be in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range and expect 2013 to be approximately $2.4 billion.
During the third quarter Kroger repurchased 14.5 million common shares for a total investment of $333 million.
Kroger's strong financial position has allowed the company to return more than $1.7 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last 4 quarters.
As it relates to dividends you should receive the first payment since our 30% increase this coming Monday.
Net total debt was $8.7 billion an increase of $1 billion from a year ago.
On a rolling 4 quarters basis Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.08 compared to 1.89 during the same period last year.
Our objective is to maintain our current debt rating.
We believe a net total debt to EBITDA ratio of 2 to 2.2 will support this.
You may notice on our balance sheet that our current portion of our debt is up compared to what it usually is.
One of the reasons for this is we had a little over $1 billion outstanding of commercial paper and in our revolving credit facility with our banks that gets classified as short term.
Some of that was extra borrowings which you saw as cash on the balance sheet in anticipation of disruptions in the commercial paper market as a result of Sandy.
And some of it is a strategy to fund some of our cash needs on a short-term basis because we're borrowing about 45 to 50 basis points in the commercial paper market to maintain an exposure to floating rates.
Now I'll update our guidance for the fourth quarter.
As a result of solid performance in our core business Kroger raised its earnings per diluted share guidance excluding the 2 adjustment items to $2.44 to $2.46 for the full year up from the previous guidance of $2.35 to $2.42.
This implies a $0.68 to $0.70 earnings per diluted share result in the fourth quarter.
With only 1 quarter left in the year we believe fourth quarter identical sales guidance is most important.
And in the fourth quarter we expect ID sales between 3% and 3.5% excluding fuel.
We also want to remind you as you start thinking about your own estimates for 2013 that you will need to adjust 2012 results to remove the benefit of the extra week and the 2 items that totaled $0.14 from this quarter.
We will provide an estimate of the benefit of the 53rd week when we provide full guidance in March.
Now I will turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
When you look at how Kroger has strengthened our business for the last 10 years and compare us to other food retailers you'll see that we took the less -- the road less traveled.
And when you look today at our ability to deliver positive growth results you'll understand why we believe that that's made all the difference.
Kroger's proven Customer 1st Strategy continues to increase customer loyalty identical sales -- store sales and market share.
With that foundation firmly in place we're focused on deploying capital to further accelerate growth and improve ROIC.
We are committed to delivering shareholder value through stronger earnings per share growth higher dividends and stock buyback.
We now look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is coming from the line of Edward Kelly from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you to start on the MEPP benefit.
Dave talking about guidance that excludes the -- well excludes both the Visa MasterCard settlement as well as MEPP.
I don't remember you saying over prior quarters that the guidance excluded the pension benefit.
So is that new this quarter or it was always excluded? Ed just to clarify the $50 million reduction that happened this quarter back in January we took the $900 million plus charge to establish what that obligation was going to be based on the actuaries' estimate at that point in time.
The actuaries recently finished their final work on exactly what that obligation is and it wound up being $50 million less.
So it has nothing to do with what the ongoing cost of that plan is.
That was a reduction of the charge we took back in January and that won't repeat itself.
It doesn't have anything to do with the annual cost of that plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what happened this quarter is truly one time? It was an adjustment to results.
Certain people don't like the use of one time.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> I know.
But back in the fourth quarter you talked about a $0.04 to $0.06 benefit.
And we're delivering on that and that's baked into the numbers and it's our run rate.
This $50 million is above and beyond that and it was just the true-up of what that initial obligation was.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Okay that makes sense.
And then my next question for you is on the gross margin a little bit better this quarter than what I was expecting sequentially a nice improvement I think lines up pretty well is what you were talking about at the analyst day.
Could you just maybe give us a little bit of color around the gross margin? I know last quarter 45% of the decline was shrink for instance.
So how did that do? How did you do with non-selling versus selling for instance? Could you talk a little bit about that? Rodney? Yes.
As you know overall every quarter what we're trying to do is to balance our improvement in operating costs with a change in gross profit rate.
And we continue to be focused on giving our customers a better value than before.
So the change in gross profit rate really is given by lowering prices to our customers and that's what drove it.
And we were really pleased with the balance that we had in terms of expense reductions.
You specifically asked about shrink.
Shrink is an area where we weren't real pleased with our results but it actually wasn't inconsistent with what I expected.
And anytime when you have swings large swings from heavy inflation to low inflation it seems that it affects shrink.
And I think a lot of the effect this -- the last couple of quarters in shrink has been that.
I feel good about where we are overall.
As you know you never want to get so focused on shrink you hurt yourself.
And that's a balance we're always focused on maintaining.
Research Division</strong> So I mean shrink last quarter hurt you by I think it's 19 basis points if we do that 45%.
Was that impact similar this quarter? It wasn't quite that bad but it wasn't something we were pleased with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And over the next few quarters is that something that would diminish do you think? Certainly yes.
I would certainly expect it would diminish.
And what we're trying to do is to make sure we manage it on a progressive and strong basis but not do something that overreacts.
Your next question is coming from the line of Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
This is Tiffany Kanaga from Deborah Weinswig's team.
We'd like to know what are you seeing in terms of the competitive environment? And how are you thinking about price investments going forward? The competitive environment Tiffany really hasn't changed.
We still see as we've said just about every quarter robust competition.
About the biggest change we see is one market to another is one market might improve a little bit another market gets a little tougher.
But I certainly don't see it as being harder or difficult today than it was last quarter or easier today than it was last quarter.
So I'd say it'd be very similar.
Rodney you want to add anything to that? No.
I would agree completely.
And on the price area I think Rodney answered that best when he said that our interest is in having balance between what we save in terms of operating costs and what we spend in terms of gross.
We have lots of places we think additional price investment would give benefit not only to our customers but would ultimately grow the sales and help the shareholders.
But we are tempered in our approach to try to make sure we've offset those with costs.
Do you want to add anything? I'm just going to add one other thing Dave.
And as you know we work a lot with dunnhumby to understand the pricing dollars we have to invest to make sure we invest it in places that helps the customer the most.
And we've been doing that for several years.
And we would continue to work with dunnhumby to help to make sure that it benefits the customer in the best way we can for what dollars we do have to invest.
Your next question is coming from the line of John Heinbockel from Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Dave you mentioned the economy is slowly improving.
Do you see evidence in what people are buying or how they're behaving that they are actually reflecting that and opening up a little more? Or is that -- that's not yet happened? Yes I think we do.
I think that -- but the evidence is the slow gradual improvement that I described.
So you look over the last several quarters you can look at some of the categories we've described before things like Boar's Head and high-end wines and our fine cheeses and some of those continue to do pretty good and grow steadily.
Natural food is doing well.
Another good indicator and one that I'm particularly pleased with was with our loyalty data.
If you look at our loyal households while we had a big good solid increase in number of loyal households the visits of course increased.
Both of those are consistent with what we've had the last several quarters.
But we also had increase in units per visit an increase there for those loyal households.
And I think that's important.
I think that's an indication both of us filling all the needs of customers or a greater portion of the needs of customers which we've talked a lot about before.
But I also think it's an indication of people having a little bit more money in their pocket or at least the willingness to buy a little bit more so that their tentativeness has dissipated somewhat.
Now I would caution though because with value customers we think that they still are living in a very fragile world and we think that their situation is still quite difficult.
And I'm not actually sure that we've seen improvement there.
And we've used the word ourselves in describing the future as pretty fragile.
The fragile nature is that you could see high volatility with changes of events which is why I think the fiscal cliff causes people some heartburn.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I'm going to ask you as a follow-up on that how do you plan for the cliff? I guess you would assume we're not going to go over entirely but the payroll tax probably goes up and some other things happen.
So there will be less money in people's pockets come January low income and middle income as well.
How do you plan for that? And do you put programs in place? Are you doing that now designing some things that you want to hit in January to target a more frugal customer? Or do you think that's an overly negative assessment? I'll have Rodney add a little color in a minute.
But first I think it is an overly negative assessment in fact quite a bit overly negative in my view.
At Kroger I think we've built up a very strong trust with our customer.
For our customers to know that where there's value to be had they can have it with us.
And as a result I believe that whatever happens and we think we're in a great position in any of the possible outcomes we can imagine we think that our customers are going to trust us and continue to stay with us.
Now our business is a day-to-day business.
We make choices every day as merchants what we're going to do.
So we read the environment where we are we make these choices and we move through current events as we always have done.
And I expect that that will be how we would operate through whatever happens in this situation.
I think it's going to be -- whatever happens I think it's going to be overplayed in the press and so will cause a lot of people a lot of chatter in the outfield but the actual effect will be less than that.
Rodney you may want to add some...
Well I was just going to say that the uncertainty of things I think is what creates the most pain.
And the things that we've been doing for the last several years is really focused on giving the customer a better total value package and price obviously gets a lot of discussion.
But we've improved the shopping experience in the products that the customers get just as much as what we've improved pricing on.
And when a customer decides where to shop they're going to look at the total thing.
But the uncertainty of it will affect you.
But I don't think there's too much that you can do to anticipate a different strategy for that.
We just think long term that it's important to give the customer better total value.
And John we don't often get into the public policy arena.
And so I'm not certainly trying to forecast what happens.
But I do think the one message that's clear from our vantage point is that Congress and the executive branch and the press frankly need to look at this responsibly to try to solve the issues and to try not to create undue uncertainty.
It's that uncertainty that serves the public really poorly.
And we think that there's a lot everyone can do if they make up their mind that they're going to purchase in a responsible way.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just finally one last thing.
Do you think that your market share has accelerated -- market share growth or gains have accelerated during 2012? It looks that way looking at the data that we can see.
Do you think that's right? I don't know that I'd use the word accelerate.
Although it may have I certainly think it has continued to increase.
And we think that that's been a fairly steady increase over time.
Rodney I don't know if you...
I would -- yes I don't know that I would so much word it as accelerate I think I agree completely with Dave that we see it pretty consistent improving as it has for the last 5 or 6 years.
Your next question is coming from the line of Meredith Adler Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about you said you're sort of finalizing the criteria for new markets that you might be considering opening stores in.
Could you talk a little bit about what those criteria are – criterion are and maybe give us a sense of how you expect to proceed? Well I'll give you a little sense.
We obviously won't tell you a lot.
And I'm not sure that what I'm going to tell you would be much more than what we said in New York.
But our interest is in being able to use our existing infrastructure warehouses and support and merchandising and so forth.
And so that would tend to say that we're not going to go to some markets that are further away and I think that's probably an accurate reflection.
And we're interested in being able to over time grow our overall business.
We think we've developed a model that the customers really like.
And we think that the customers -- and particularly if you look around most of the markets we operate in and a bunch of markets we don't operate in the places that the people are winning in food retailing today actually are mostly in supermarkets.
Now you don't see that as much because a lot of those supermarkets are private markets are not publicly owned so you don't see the data.
But many of the winners are supermarkets.
And as a result we think there's a lot of places that would actually benefit from our kind of store as a supermarket.
And we see that as a real plus.
Now other than that I'm not sure that we're going to go out and describe much more.
Our objective is to narrow it down to the markets that we think are important and then to do investigation in the real estate side of it and then to proceed through actually operating an action plan which we would do in almost anything we do really.
So that's really the basic plan but I don't think that adds anything to what I've told you.
Research Division</strong> Well this may be a follow-on with that.
You had opened a few Food 4 Less stores in Chicago a number of years ago.
Do you see the move into new markets or even the fill-in being different kinds of formats than a traditional Kroger? Would it be a marketplace store more likely to be Food 4 Less or some other discount-oriented store or it'll be a little bit of everything? We see all of those as on the table.
We like the Food 4 Less format.
We like the marketplace format.
We like our traditional supermarket format.
We like our convenience store format.
So we see all of those as having high potential and it would be based upon the specific market.
Rodney you want to add anything to that? Anything else Meredith? Research Division</strong> Well I guess I wanted to go back to the question about competition which you -- I understand is pretty stable.
Do you see any risk that rapidly moderating inflation and maybe not everybody's tonnage is recovering as nicely as yours that that will get -- sort of freak out some of your competitors and we will see more price aggressiveness from them? No I don't expect to see that.
And of course you'll always have some individual markets and some individual settings where that might occur.
But on the whole I view that the competitors that we compete with whether they're supermarkets whether they're publicly owned or not whatever they are we view it as quite rational.
We think people are making rational choices what they view to be in their best long-term interest and we certainly are doing the same.
Your next question is coming from the line of Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious what you would do if you were in a vendors' shoes right now in center store? And the reason I'm asking is across all of food center store seems to continue to lag.
Are you happy with the level and quality of innovation and marketing you're getting from your vendors? You talked about national brands promoting heavily.
Is that something you want to see? Or would you rather get fewer dollars from deal backs and just have your vendors spend more money kind of investing in their brands and driving the categories higher that way? I'm just curious how you think about that balance there in the long term.
I think Rodney will answer that.
Yes.
Your question on innovation if you talk to any of us we would say that no one can ever have enough innovation.
It's what makes it fun.
And I can tell you every time we have a top-to-top meeting we're always pushing our CPG partners to have more innovation.
It's something that causes the shopping experience to be more fun.
It causes the customer to look at somebody's product and obviously we sell more.
From our perspective we're really kind of indifferent in terms of how a vendor spends their money.
Because if they get to where their pricing is too high that's the reason why we think our corporate brand our strong corporate brand program is so positive is because it gives a great value at great quality for our customers.
So if a vendor CPG gets to where their price is too high and they spend 20 times as much as they spent before marketing that balance won't work for them.
So we really are focused on how do we work with our CPG partners how do we grow their business together.
And if they get to the point where they get out of balance we find our corporate brands always picks up share.
And as I mentioned in the call obviously our grocery tonnage was up very nicely in the quarter and in fact the best since the second quarter of 2010.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick one maybe I missed it.
Can you give us some help on what quarter-to-date comps have been? We haven't described that yet but we'd be happy to tell you that.
At the moment quarter-to-date and the fourth quarter were a little bit higher than what we ran in the third quarter.
But I would not read too much into that because we expect as we have seen in the last year or 2 high volatility from 1 week to the next particularly as the payments for the food stamps for the staff payments how that has been smoothed out over some of the months.
We've seen even higher volatility compared to the previous year.
We do expect to have a good holiday selling season with Christmas 2 days later from when Thanksgiving falls than last year.
We think that actually works well.
But a couple of the weeks will be pretty soft weeks.
So we're giving you the reading as of today as through yesterday.
But if you look at today's sales they're going to be pretty sloppy as an example because last year was the first of the month where today it's 2 days before the end of the month.
So that's why I urge caution don't read too much into that.
But we're running currently a little bit better than the third quarter.
The other thing -- Dave mentioned it but the swings within a month is a lot more than we had before.
And John's earlier question about which customer segments are improving and which ones aren't if you look at the mainstream and upscale customers it's pretty consistent and it's solid throughout a month.
But a value customer we see a tremendous amount of more swing today than we would have seen even last year or 2 years ago.
And Dave mentioned that before.
Your next question is coming from the line of Charles Grom Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Shane Higgins on for Chuck.
First of all I thought it was really interesting that you guys laid out that the nonfuel non-pharmacy IDs and obviously they looked pretty nice and remarkably stable.
How does that compare to the growth in your markets? I know you guys have been picking up share pretty consistently.
Would 2% to 3% kind of growth or how should we think about that? Yes I'm not sure what you mean by growth in the markets if you're asking about population growth and the like.
But overall it's really the result of a combination of things Dave and Rodney have already described.
Dave described increased visits and increased units per visit and Rodney has described that our tonnage was the strongest since second quarter of 2010.
And it's really a combination of all those factors that has allowed us to continue to grow.
We don't want to speculate on exactly where our market share is today.
It's a calculation we do once a year and we'll describe that in March when we release full year results.
But it's been pretty broad-based.
As Rodney said all of the departments have had positive identical food store sales again this quarter.
And we continue to be very pleased with the broad-based performance.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I guess as inflation has moderated and you guys touched on -- so tonnage has actually been steadily improving over the past 3 quarters has been driving more that ID sales.
It actually has -- inflation has come in a little faster than we would have originally predicted which was reflected in the reduction of our LIFO reserve.
And the effect on the tonnage picking up it's actually picked up a little faster than we expected.
I don't want to say it's all just because there's less inflation.
Certainly a lot of it is the value equation we give to our customers and the way we go to market every day continues to resonate with the customer.
So it's a combination of factors.
But bottom line that's -- your comment is true.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And how should we think about the inflation over the next couple of months? Are you hearing -- sorry if you guys already talked about this but are you hearing anything from vendors in terms of prices going up any impact from the drought? Well there are certainly some of the futures out there that would indicate higher costs.
Some of those they're off their peaks when you look at the corn and soybeans and things like that.
Certainly portions of the protein complex continue to have a lot of inflation.
The beef side has a lot inflation.
That's offset right now by some deflation in the pork side and the seafood right now is deflationary.
So we really look at it of what item is out there that has the right price points that's going to resonate with the customer.
I don't want to speculate on 2013 inflation at this point.
But I think the year is playing out to end a little bit lower inflation level than we originally predicted.
And there are commodities out there that are the other way; things like sugar hasn't had nearly the same effect orange juice is below the 5-year average.
So there are those categories out there that have some positive influence.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just one last question on your ID sales you guys refer on the outlook for the year.
It does imply kind of a 1% to 3% type number for the fourth quarter.
And based on your earlier comments about recent trends being actually slightly better than third quarter what -- are you guys just being conservative in kind of leaving the guidance unchanged? Is there concern about the impact of the fiscal cliff? How should we think about that? Yes.
I was worried when we used the same number in the press release that it could be read that we reaffirm 3% to 3.5% as our annual number.
That's actually just specific fourth quarter guidance.
And we wanted to make sure people -- I didn't want to use the annual guidance because there's only 12 weeks left in the quarter and you would have gotten a number like that.
So the 3% to 3.5% we described is actually just for the fourth quarter.
Your next question is coming from the line of Chuck Cerankosky Northcoast Research.
Can you give us a sense Dave on how the consumer behaved around the Thanksgiving buying period and how it compared to last year? We were very pleased with the Thanksgiving selling this year thought it went quite well.
And both pleased from an operational point of view and a merchandising point of view.
But the customer reaction was solid and improving just like we've been improving all year on other things.
Okay.
And how about the gas profitability? Up nicely year-over-year.
Mike what are sort of the dynamics around that? Is it increased traffic or less competition from fuel merchants? What's happening there? Well you can see that the gas prices during the quarter were volatile.
And anytime gas prices are volatile you get things that change one way or the other.
And this particular quarter had a bit higher margins and had even higher margins towards the end of the quarter as the gas prices came down.
And in fact that helped the quarter as you could see in the numbers and as Mike I think described.
We saw identical gallons up so we're good solid there.
And I think that's a bit of a countertrend compared to where the industry is.
And that's we believe because we're adding fuel stations because we are connecting with the customers and they like having gas right at the grocery store and because of our fuel rewards program.
Yes ID gallons were up in both the C-store offering and in the supermarket fuel offering.
And on the supermarkets I think should have -- I want to comment just a little bit more only because to have the strong identical fuel gallons we've had is pretty impressive as we continue to add fuel markets to our existing stores.
And that could potentially cause sister store impact from one fuel center to another.
Our total gallons sold into supermarket fuel centers was up a lot more than our IDs were.
But we still maintain that strong solid ID even with the growing number of outlets for consumers to go to.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mark Wiltamuth Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Mark Wiltamuth Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask about the credit card settlement.
You've got a pretty good gain there.
There have been periods in the past when you've taken big windfalls and plowed it back into reinvesting into price.
Is that the intention here? Or is this just separate from your overall strategy on pricing? Well you got to think about this a little bit different.
This settlement included a cash component which obviously is in our financials but also a change of the rules under which you could take the cards and deal with the cards with your customers.
So on one hand the amount that we've described and adjusted our earnings for that went to the shareholders.
But the rules change we think there's some benefits there for our customers that can incentivize the customer to use the lower form of payment and that of course goes to them.
So we'd see it as a really big win.
It's a win for the customer it's a win for the shareholder.
All around we think it works well.
So I think that's how we expect to play it out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at your rolling 4 quarter EBIT down 7 basis points and you're still looking for it to be up for the year once you're finished with the fourth quarter.
Is there something rolling off on fourth quarter last year that really kind of helps you get to positive? And where do you kind of stand on the 3 quarters to date so far? Yes I'm actually glad you asked that question Mark because we resisted the temptation to put that metric in our prepared comments because we don't like to shift how we measure ourselves.
One of the things that gives us comfort with our ability to increase that for the full year when you look at year-to-date without fuel and the 2 adjustment items we're actually down 1 basis point year-to-date.
So it's not like we have to -- from where we are at year-to-date we only have to go up a few to get it to be positive.
But the rolling 4 quarters has -- last year's third quarter actually was very strong and that's one of the things that caused the comparison to be a little off.
And that is on a 52-week basis not a -- we're not using the extra week to cause that to be the outcome.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that does imply some better margin here coming up in the fourth quarter? It implies a little bit better.
Keep in mind it only has to go -- it only has to be 2 or 3 basis points better to get me positive for the year.
Your next question is coming from the line of Karen Short BMO Capital.
Just to clarify on inflation for the fourth quarter.
Your full year LIFO guidance implies kind of $30 million in LIFO expense for the fourth quarter.
Is that -- is this quarter just a true-up because it sounds like you're saying that you think the fourth quarter inflation is going to be similar to the third? Well we reduced our annual estimate by $25 million based on what we see today.
And to get the year-to-date rate you have to take 10/13 of that reduction into this quarter and then the fourth quarter winds up just being 3/13 of $125 million.
So that's how you ought to wind up thinking about what the numbers are.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I'm just curious on your shrink can you kind of maybe elaborate a little bit on what your strategy is to tackle shrink and what you think the timing might be on seeing some improvement? Well it should be a little each quarter.
The detail in terms of how you accomplish it it's all the basics.
Some of it is driven by actual theft.
There's all kinds of things that you work on in terms of trying to reduce the actual theft.
One of the things that's constantly surprising is how much more sophisticated some of the theft rings are today than they were even 2 or 3 years ago.
And it's just making sure that we put even more focus on some of those some of it's basic operations.
And that's blocking and tackling.
It's nothing really very fancy.
It's making sure you get deliveries into the store at the right time i.e.
take market downs appropriately and those things.
So it's not fancy.
Our expectation of ourselves would be to gradually improve and get it back to where we're satisfied again.
How much of it is actually theft versus say...
Well you never know for sure.
Internally we would probably really tell you.
We think it's about half and half but that is a wild guess because you really don't know for sure.
With all this conversation about shrink I ought to at least add my own thought is that as shrink goes we actually are in pretty good shape.
I don't want to give anybody the impression we think we have a big shrink problem.
And by 2 questions like that on that could give you that impression.
But we see improvement to be made.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess last question is just a few years ago when you really had very very strong tonnage growth it was so strong it kind of became hard to manage from kind of an expense perspective.
I guess I was just wondering if tonnage does continue to improve what kind of changes you've made to prevent this from happening again or what you think your expenses are going to look like? I recall those issues were really more because of the volatile nature from one quarter to the next and what we were seeing there.
And I think what we've seen now is more steady.
Plus I think we've given a lot of thought to what we went through that period and I think we're being very intelligent about the way in which we're operating our store.
Rodney if you want to add any color...
Well the only other thing that when tonnage was so strong before and this would happen in any situation the actual work and the number of hours that we schedule on our stores is driven by the tonnage that goes through it.
So at that point in time we had almost -- I mean basic identical sales were only 1% to 2% positive but we were growing our tonnage by 5% or 6%.
So anytime you grow tonnage by that much you're going to have more hours to actually do the physical work.
Yes I'm glad Rodney added that.
Because frankly if I look back over the last 10 years one of the things that I'm most proud of us doing in this company is that point is that as you experience inflation but not have tonnage growth we modify our hours to do the work not to handle the dollar sales.
And so as you have deflation or low periods of inflation and tonnage growth we still have the hours in to do the work so the customers don't end up suffering.
We said all along that our Customer 1st Strategy is making sure we run our stores in a way that connects really well with customers.
And in the past we ran it with the dollars and today we run it with the cases.
And it's a much more effective way to do it.
And that's one of the reasons because we've done it for so long now our customers really trust us and appreciate us.
Your next question is coming from the line of Scott Mushkin Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my questions have been answered so I just want to do some housekeeping items.
Did you guys actually give the tonnage number? I know you said it was the best since the second quarter of '10 or something like that.
But did you give the actual number? We did not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you want to? I'll defer to Rodney and Dave.
Scott I don't think it's helpful to do that.
We're happy with it.
In prior quarters we described it as marginally positive and we're happier with it than that.
It was a very strong quarter for tonnage.
And actually the reason we don't want to give it is that it doesn't have the kind of precision that giving a number might imply it would have.
And because it doesn't we're trying to make a rational judgment as to what the number really says and we're interpreting it and telling you what that number says.
We try to do that really with this whole call as our objective here is to let you see this business through our eyes and give you the weight of what we think is actually happening.
Yes if you just want to get a rough calculation Scott just take our identical sales less the inflation estimate we provided.
I mean it's not exactly right but it's roughly close.
And certainly directionally correct true.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that goes back to kind of a second housekeeping item.
I know you guys answered this a little bit.
But it seems to me that the delta your volume delta between you and the industry or the delta volume between you and the industry better way to say it has been widening out which is very suggestive of share gains accelerating.
Yet you didn't want to commit to that on the call and I'm kind of a little surprised about that.
I don't know if you have any further comments on that.
I think we're quite clear that we believe we've picked up share.
We just don't think it's been dramatic or sudden.
We think it's been gradual over time.
And it does -- what you just said does help describe what we think is happening in the industry overall where people buy food.
The industry has widened to places not just supermarkets.
So you've seen a lot of the mass operators and the dollar stores and the drugstores and club stores all those places sell food and so now the market is a much wider market.
But the winners and losers in that market it's always been true in food retailing.
There's people who are being more successful than others.
And a lot of the success today comes a few of the public companies are ones that are outside of the supermarket industry except for Kroger.
You add Kroger into that mix.
And then you have some private companies and you don't see their numbers.
But we happen to know that those private companies based on what we see in the markets that they have been improving too.
So we think that we are separating ourselves from many in the industry.
We are among the winners in the industry and we think that there are other winners in the industry as well.
The only thing Dave I would add -- and Scott as you know we really focus more on market share on an annual basis rather than quarter-to-quarter.
We're certainly pleased with where we think we are.
But really once a year is when we step back and really dig into the numbers in a very detailed way.
So to answer the question it isn't so much we're trying to avoid it.
It's just that during the year we wouldn't focus as much energy on trying to understand it as long as directionally the numbers look like they're tracking in a good way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Perfect.
I have 2 more quick ones I'll just roll them together.
So really excited about the ROIC focus as I think you guys know.
But I was hoping for an update on when we can see ROIC as part of the long-term executive incentive plan.
I think Dave indicated at the analyst day that that change would likely be forthcoming.
And then the second housekeeping item is x fuel EBIT dollars were they up or not? So those 2 and then I'll yield.
On the first one yes x fuel EBIT operating profit dollars just so I'm talking to my terms versus how you may calculate it x fuel operating profit dollars were up in the quarter yes.
And then to your question about ROIC and the long-term incentive plan we actually have a board meeting next week with our comp committee.
And one of the areas that we plan to explore with them and to suggest to them is to add a component along those lines.
But it's our comp committee that makes that decision ultimately and -- so stay tuned.
But it's not going to happen instantly.
You'll probably hear -- be able to hear about it on the next call.
Your next question is from the line of Andrew Wolf BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you on the turnaround or the turn-up in the unit count.
Using dunnhumby and other ways to look at it can you kind of differentiate between how much of that is kind of sold on promotion? I think last quarter you'd mentioned you were sending out more direct mail coupons to increase penetrations or in categories with certain customers.
So much is sort of on promotion and maybe something that maybe only Kroger can pull off versus how much of it is maybe the environment? If you look at the mix the growth is pretty balanced between everyday-type items and promotional-type items.
So we felt really good about it because a lot of the growth is from new customers and those are more sustainable.
So a nice balance between the 2 and it really didn't change versus earlier in the year.
Research Division</strong> That's exactly what I was getting at.
And my housekeeping question is on the extra week.
I think you indicated you can't tell us what that might affect EPS and earnings for until -- or did you already say what it is and I missed that? And what I'm getting at is if I'm trying to adjust EBITDA to a calendarized basis let's say -- or EBIT FIFO EBIT can I just straight-line it? Or are there some expenses that are treated where you get a benefit because it doesn't have the extra week? You cannot straight-line it.
This isn't the first time we've had a 53rd week year and we've always described what the effect of that is and what items you cannot straight line.
So that's out there historically.
The only reason -- certainly we have an estimate internally of what we think the benefit of that extra week will be.
At the end of the day it'll be driven by how many sales dollars fall into that week.
It will be one of those weeks that falls in crossing the calendar into the first of the month has a couple fewer days at the first of the month than the prior year's week it's going to be comparing to add.
So that's the only reason we've had any hesitancy about saying exactly what that benefit is going to be.
We have a good feel for it.
But we'll let you know when we see exactly where sales were and when we release full year numbers in March.
Research Division</strong> And my last question actually I want to get to digital marketing because I think Dave mentioned that in his preamble.
And just looking at the website corporate website to me at least it looks like a complete makeover into a really digital-driven platform.
And so my questions are twofold.
First is it too early to -- if I'm right is it too early to -- or do you have any sort of preliminary information on what that's doing for the business? And secondly just overall where do you see digital marketing going? I mean some folks think it's going to slowly or maybe even rapidly replace print media for distributing coupons on a mass basis and so forth.
Andy I'm so glad you noticed because that's true.
We've done a lot of work on our website and we continue to do updates to our app that's available too for mobile devices.
And we're very excited about that.
And I think what we've seen is that gradual interest by our customers in connecting with us both in the traditional ways that really has continued to be strong but also in digital ways.
And the more we have improved the more we see those customers engaged.
So we're seeing a gradual improvement there.
It's not some sudden improvement.
And in terms of the business we certainly are getting a lot of digital coupons that we take as an example.
That number is quite high.
And so we see a lot of activity.
But it's hard really to measure the specific results that would be derived from digital marketing versus the specific results in traditional marketing.
We see it as blended together and we see that the customer who responds to one also responds to the other.
You have some people who are just digital and others who are just traditional but many people fall into the camp of both.
And so it's really hard to read what caused their activity and what caused their emotion.
Rodney you want to add anything to that? I think that would be it Andy.
What else? Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up.
Just on the development side some companies I follow have gone outside the company to folks who have been doing digital marketing maybe for longer in other industries some have done it internally.
Could you comment on how the development in terms of personnel has been? Yes it's a good question.
We actually have a mix of both and the team is probably about half and half.
And if you look at who's helping us we're partnering with several different outside companies.
So -- and right now we like the balance because we think it's the best of both.
Obviously dunnhumby is helping us with that as well.
Your final question is coming from the line of Stephen Grambling Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question actually looks out towards actually 2014 with changes to the broader health care and policy there.
I'm wondering if you can maybe talk about how you're thinking about the potential impact from those changes how you might be trying to mitigate those costs going forward? Well there's a lot of dimensions to the health care costs.
But I would start with first which is we believe very strongly that our associates need good health care and that we want whatever plan we do to give them a health care program that we can be proud of.
And we think we've consistently done that for many years.
And so I don't really see what we'll be doing in the next couple of years as radically different than what we've been doing in the last several and that is looking for ways in which we can improve the way in which we handle health care.
The biggest change in health care over the last 3 or 4 or 5 years has been instead of trying to cost shift that is move the cost from an employer to the associate we've tried to find ways to actually reduce the overall cost.
So that if the associate pays say a 70% or so of the health care cost just as an example if they pay that -- or 30% rather and the company pays 70% as an example if we're in that situation and we can reduce the overall cost of the health care the associate can save and we can save.
And it tends to flatten the increased cost that you might otherwise experience.
Now with the new health care law taking effect that certainly changes some of those dimensions and it will increase some of our costs and will increase some of our associates' costs.
But the overall objective still remains.
Rodney you want to add anything? Yes just one small addition and Dave briefly mentioned it.
I mean we really are focused on trying to help our associates have a healthier lifestyle and doing things to help support them.
And we invest a lot of dollars for our associates to get preventive-type care or physicals those kind of things because we really want our associates to be able to be the healthiest they can be.
And that will help lower everybody's cost but it'll also help our associates have a better lifestyle.
Before we end the call though I do want to share some additional thoughts particularly with the associates that are listening.
We appreciate everybody sticking with us today given the technical difficulties at the beginning.
I have 2 special messages for our associates today.
First is we take time to honor our veterans this month in November and I'm pleased that we support our veterans and military families in so many ways at Kroger.
And want I want to thank you for your support in launching honoring our heroes our company-wide partnership with the USO.
Since 2010 Kroger has raised more than $5 million to assist service members and their families.
This has been because of you our customers and our vendor partners.
Your generous support helps fund the USO's variety of programs that benefit our troops and their families.
In addition Kroger announced Hiring Our Heroes a renewed commitment to hiring veterans.
More than 17 000 veterans have joined Kroger's ranks since 2009.
By the end of this year our human resource team will attend 15 military -- recruit military veterans career fairs and they plan to attend even more in 2013.
As always we are pleased to welcome veterans to our Kroger family and we continue to support our active duty military associates who work for us.
My other message for associates is about this holiday season.
Because of you Kroger is the trusted and preferred store for millions of families at this special time of the year.
Your enthusiasm and creativity clearly show us -- clearly shows as we visit our stores across the country and we appreciate everything you do to delight our customers and keep our stores running smoothly.
Today our busy shoppers have more retail choices than ever before.
Offering to help somebody find something keeping items in stock on the shelves making checkout fast and easy these are all ways that you can make their day a little more pleasant.
So thank you for the hard work during this holiday season.
And while this completes our call today thank you everybody for joining us.
To all of you Merry Christmas.
Happy holidays to you and your families.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kirstie and I'll be your operator for this -- for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Kirstie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our fourth quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at www.thekrogerco.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger had an outstanding fourth quarter and an outstanding year.
We accomplished a lot in fiscal 2012.
We delivered on ID sales growth we exceeded expected earnings per share growth we increased FIFO operating margin and we increased our dividend 30%.
Kroger's unique value offering of better service great products and enjoyable shopping experience and lower prices continues to resonate with a full range of customers.
The result is an industry-leading 37 consecutive quarters of positive identical sales growth.
In this morning's press release we provided you with details to make it easier for you to do an apples-to-apples comparison and understand how we look at our business internally.
Table 6 in our press release was designed to help you understand the details behind the growth figures we reported.
We delivered value to shareholders by increasing our dividend and exceeding our own earnings per share guidance through the combination of solid operating results and share buyback.
We returned more than $1.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and stock buyback in 2012.
Our associates delivered an outstanding year that underscores Kroger's growing connection with customers remains the key to shareholder value creation.
In a moment Rodney will outline how we got there and Mike will discuss the numbers.
First I'd like to give you some insight into what our customers are facing today.
Consumer confidence was fragile throughout the year and it hit its lowest point this January as customers voiced heightened concern over taxes.
We believe 4 factors will continue to affect consumer confidence: the overall state of the economy fluctuating gas prices payroll taxes and government policy uncertainty.
These factors are causing sales comparisons between days and weeks to be highly variable.
But overall we continue to have strong ID sales trends.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver growth despite the economic uncertainty.
Our team has delivered strong results by executing our Customer 1st Strategy over the last 5 years.
And as you know the last 5 years has been highly volatile and we have continued to consistently deliver through that time.
A cornerstone of our Customer 1st Strategy is the value our associates deliver to our customers.
Our customers are stressed at the pump they look to our Fuel Points program for meaningful savings.
And when families have less to spend in restaurants our ready-to-heat and ready-to-eat meals help them eat well at home.
When you want convenience of finding everything you need plus a little in one place and save time at the checkout nobody does it better than our family of stores.
So whatever the economic and operating environment Kroger is situated to deliver on our growth targets for 2013 and beyond.
Our ability to do this is what makes Kroger a compelling investment.
Rodney will now provide deeper insight into our business performance and share our year-end market share statistics with you.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
We exceeded our expectations for the quarter and the year thanks to our associates performing to deliver growth.
We are implementing our long-term growth strategy which includes: targeting capital to grow our business in new and existing markets leveraging dunnhumby insights to solve varied customer needs through both traditional and digital channels and continuing our share buyback program.
We continue to make good progress adding square footage in 4 fill-in markets and we've identified others based on various metrics.
We have narrowed the list of new markets for future expansions.
In 2013 we plan to build expand or relocate 45 to 50 supermarkets compared to 44 in fiscal 2012.
At our Investors Meeting in October we identified 4 key performance targets for shareholders to measure our success.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the results of each metric.
On identical sales we are very pleased with our fourth quarter identical supermarket sales growth of 3% without fuel.
We focus on identical sales because it provides the strongest measure of our relevance with customers over time.
Our identical sales without fuel and pharmacy were consistent throughout the year.
We are very pleased with our identical sales trends through the year given the fact that inflation declined during the year and tonnage growth improved throughout the year.
Consistent with our guidance at the start of 2012 pharmacy sales benefited overall sales in the first half of the year.
This was due to strong growth in our pharmacy business including attracting and retaining Express Scripts business.
As also in line with our guidance at the start of the year identical sales trended down as prescription drugs came off patent.
These events will be important to keep in mind as you estimate our quarterly sales expectations for 2013.
Mike will provide our guidance shortly.
Rolling 4 quarters adjusted FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and the extra week increased by 6 basis points compared to the adjusted fiscal 2011 result.
This is in line with our commitment to grow the rate slightly over time on our rolling 4-quarters basis.
The third target metric is return on invested capital or ROIC.
ROIC in the fourth quarter held steady at 13.4% the same as last year.
We are committed to growing our ROIC over time even with the higher level of capital spending.
Our fourth target metric is market share growth which we report on annually.
We look at market share the way customers would look at it where they spend their money.
According to Nielsen Homescan data Kroger's overall dollar share of products we sell in markets where we operate grew approximately 20 basis points during fiscal 2012.
The pace of our market share growth accelerated in the back half of the year.
This mirrors our tonnage growth during the year.
This data also indicates that our share increased in 10 of the 19 marketing areas outlined by the Nielsen report and declined in 9 areas.
Walmart Supercenters our primary competitor in 17 of the 19 marketing areas outlined by the Nielsen report.
Kroger's share increased to 9 of those 17 markets and declined in 8 markets and overall market share slightly increased.
This Nielsen Homescan Data is generated by customers who self-report their grocery purchases to Nielsen.
This includes all retail outlets that sell the same products that we sell.
Strong identical sales and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses for our eighth consecutive year.
In fiscal 2012 OG&amp;A plus cost plus rent and depreciation without fuel and the extra week were down 48 basis points as a percent of sales.
Sales growth in the fourth quarter was driven by an increase in visits per household loyal household growth and slight increases in units per basket and per month.
As a result total units sold were up solidly compared to last year as I mentioned before.
For the full year customer visits and monthly purchases were up while items purchased each trip were down.
The number of loyal households continued to increase as did the number of loyal household store visits.
We estimate the rate of product cost inflation declined to 1.7% excluding fuel.
Once again every store department had inflation with the exception of seafood which had deflation.
Corporate brands represented approximately 27% of grocery department sales dollars in the fourth quarter and grocery department corporate brands units sold were 33.5%.
The mix between national brands and corporate brands fluctuates in any given quarter.
Our goal is to give the best value to our customers and we continue to be a market leader in corporate brands.
Corporate brands introduced 588 new items in the grocery department in 2012.
Many of these were sold under our new Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic brands which had fiscal 2012 sales that exceeded our internal goal by 33%.
Obviously this has been a huge home run.
We plan to continue developing innovative products that solve for unmet needs and that our customers won't find anywhere else in 2013.
Our practice has been to disclose our corporate brands' share in grocery category only.
The reason for not using a broader base was the introduction of new items in categories where we previously had not been broadly represented.
We felt this would have portrayed our growth in a too-favorable light.
With this behind us we plan to begin giving a view of our share across a broader portion of the store in future quarters.
As you know our commitment to improving the 4 keys of our Customer 1st Strategy our people products prices and shopping experience sets us apart from many of our other food retailers.
While many of our competitors do well in one or more of these areas very very few excel in all 4 of them.
I'd like to share a couple of examples how we are seeking to improve our connection to customers through the non-price key of our Customer 1st Strategy.
An important area of focus for us is improving our digital connection with customers through our mobile phone app and on the web at kroger.com.
We offer Kroger customers the ability to check their fuel points download coupons instantly to their shopper cart create a shopping list and order pharmacy prescription refills virtually wherever they are.
We know that customers who are digitally engaged with Kroger are more loyal than those customers who aren't which is why we recently began promoting our digital offering to connect with more customers on our digital platforms.
In a short period of time we've seen visits to our mobile app increase by more than 120% and a 45% increase in traffic to kroger.com and growth in the number of customers who have signed up for online and mobile accounts with Kroger.
Another measure of our growing digital connection is the total number of digital coupons that have been downloaded.
In December we hit a milestone of more than 500 million digital coupons downloaded by our customers.
We see only opportunity by improving our offering in the digital arena particularly as we leverage our world-class loyalty program with dunnhumbyUSA.
Our customers are also eating more seafood as part of their weekly diet making seafood one of the fastest-growing commodities we sell.
To meet this growing demand today and in the future we support both wild-caught and farm-raised fishery improvement projects around the world so customers can know with confidence that the seafood they buy at Kroger is always fresh high quality and sustainably sourced.
Just last month we helped launch the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative or GSSI to ensure that certification programs continue to successfully evaluate and validate our suppliers' best-in-class sustainability efforts.
Kroger is proud to be the only U.S.-based retailer to hold a seat on the GSSI steering board and we are also a founding member.
Finally I'd like to give you an update on labor relations.
Our associates play a big part in building customer loyalty.
Kroger's commitment to our associates include our dedication to safety significant investments in training solid wages and good quality affordable health care.
We have to deliver on this in ways that allow us to operate competitively with the non-union retailers in each of the markets that we serve.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates have a shared objective.
Growing Kroger's business and profitability will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
We were pleased that our associates ratified a series of new labor agreements covering stores in Portland and throughout Oregon and Southwest Washington.
Currently negotiations are underway with the UFCW for store associates in the Indianapolis area.
In 2013 we have labor contracts expiring in Michigan Houston Dallas Cincinnati and Seattle.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's 2012 financial results and our guidance for 2013.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Obviously our numbers are a little difficult to dissect this quarter.
As I go through our results there are 3 important comparisons that we want to make sure you understand: first how we performed compared to our guidance in 2012; second how we compare our fiscal 2012 results to fiscal 2011; and third to show you how we calculated our growth rate for 2013.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter totaled $461.5 million or $0.88 per diluted share.
LIFO was $0.09 per diluted share lower than estimated and a discrete tax item added $0.02 per diluted share to the results for the quarter.
These 2 items were not contemplated in our guidance.
Excluding the benefit of these items we exceeded earnings per diluted share expectations by $0.07.
Comparing our fourth quarter results to the prior year net earnings per diluted share in the fourth quarter grew 22%.
To calculate this we excluded the extra week from the fourth quarter of 2012 and adjusted fourth quarter 2011 for the UFCW pension plan consolidation charge and to make LIFO comparable between the 2 quarters.
This is illustrated in Table 6 of our press release.
We recorded a $41.2 million LIFO credit during the quarter compared to a $73.4 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
We reminded you in the third quarter that we manage the company without regard to our LIFO charge and many of the items we discuss are on a FIFO basis.
So when we develop our expectations for any given year we estimate LIFO last.
The reason for this is LIFO is merely an accounting convention.
If LIFO is lower than the prior year our EPS growth rate will be higher than our targets.
And if LIFO is higher than the prior year our EPS growth rate will be lower than our targets.
This is why we excluded the benefit of our lower-than-expected LIFO charge when comparing to guidance and calculating growth rates.
FIFO gross margin excluded retail fuel operations and the extra week decreased 43 basis points from the same period last year.
Operating general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation excluding retail fuel operations and the extra week declined 70 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year's adjusted fourth quarter.
Before I move on to discuss Kroger's full year 2012 results I'll share some data on our retail fuel operations.
We disclosed many items with and without fuel due to its effect on operating costs and gross rates but we view fuel as a core department that over time is expected to contribute to earnings per share growth.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the fourth quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.127 compared to $0.121 in the same quarter last year after adjusting 2 000 -- after adjusting for the additional week.
For the full year the cents per gallon fuel margin was roughly $0.139 compared to $0.138 after adjusting for an additional week.
Turning now to Kroger's full year 2012 results.
For the full year 2012 total sales increased $96.8 billion or -- to $96.8 billion or 7.1% compared with the prior fiscal year.
After adjusting for the extra week in fiscal 2012 total sales increased to $94.8 billion or 4.9% compared with the prior fiscal year.
Excluding fuel total sales increased 6% over that same time period.
And further adjusting for the extra week total sales excluding fuel increased 4%.
Identical supermarket sales without fuel increased 3.5% in fiscal 2012 compared with the prior year.
Net earnings for fiscal year 2012 totaled $1.5 billion or $2.77 per diluted share.
These results include LIFO being lower than our guidance by $0.08 per diluted share and the discrete tax item that added $0.02 per diluted share in the fourth quarter and the $0.14 per diluted share effect from the credit card settlement and a reduction in the UFCW pension accrual in the third quarter.
Collectively these totaled $0.24 per diluted share and were not contemplated in our guidance of $2.44 to $2.46 per diluted share.
So comparing our performance without these items to guidance we exceeded the high end of our range by $0.07 per diluted share.
Comparing our 2012 results to the prior year net earnings per diluted share in 2012 grew 16%.
In order to calculate this we believe adjustments to 2012 and 2011 are required.
Adjustments for 2012 included the benefits gained from the pension accrual and credit card settlement in the third quarter and excluding the extra week.
In 2011 adjustments included the UFC pension plan consolidation charge in the fourth quarter and making LIFO comparable to 2012.
This calculation is illustrated in Table 6 of our press release.
The fact that we beat our own earnings guidance for the year even after raising it upwards several times throughout the year demonstrates the underlying strength of our core business and the bit of our -- benefit of our share buybacks to increase shareholder value.
Kroger recorded a full year LIFO charge of approximately $55 million.
The company's fiscal 2011 full year LIFO charge was $216 million.
As Dave and Rodney said earlier we expect -- currently expect a slightly expanded FIFO operating margin on a rolling 4-quarters basis.
On this basis FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and the extra week increased by 6 basis points.
This also excludes the benefits of the credit card settlement and the reduction in UFC pension accrual both of which incurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
We are pleased that we were able to deliver on our commitment and it remains our goal to continue to slightly improve Kroger's non-fuel operating margin rate over time.
For 2013 our planned uses of cash remain unchanged.
We're going to fund capital investments repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and maintain our current investment grade debt rating.
Capital investments excluding acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $2 billion for the year compared to $1.9 billion in 2011.
For 2013 we expect capital investments to be in the $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range for the year.
During the fourth quarter Kroger repurchased 2.2 million common shares for an investment of $57 million.
Since the end of the fourth quarter and through the close of the market yesterday Kroger has $466 million remaining under the $500 million stock repurchase program announced in October of 2012.
Net total debt was $8.6 billion an increase of $470.6 million from a year ago.
Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.04 compared to 2 during the same period last year.
Our objective is maintain our current debt rating and we believe a net total debt to EBITDA ratio of 2x to 2.2x will support this objective.
Now I would like to outline our specific growth objectives for fiscal 2013.
Kroger anticipates identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 2.5% to 3.5% for fiscal 2013.
We expect identical sales to trend up during the year as we lap higher inflation early in the year and the effect of generics in the second half of the year.
Full year net earnings for fiscal 2013 are expected to range from $2.71 to $2.79 per diluted share.
This equates to the company's long-term growth rate of 8% to 11% from the adjusted fiscal 2012 earnings per diluted share of $2.52 as shown in Table 6 of our press release.
To calculate our base we excluded the benefits gained from the pension accrual and credit card settlement in the third quarter and the extra week and we also normalized LIFO.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend of 2% to 2.5% for a total shareholder return of approximately 10% to 13.5%.
When looking at our cadence by quarter we expect the following: the low end of our growth rate -- we expect quarter 1 to be at the low end of our growth rate inflation is expected to be lower in the first quarter of 2013 and the growth of our pharmacy business won't be as substantial as last year's first quarter.
We expect the second and third quarters to be at the high end to above our growth rate expectations as inflation is expected to become more comparable between the years and we expect our ID sales to be trending up.
For the fourth quarter we expect lower than the prior year on a 12-week to 12-week basis due primarily to a budgeted LIFO charge of $13 million versus a credit of $41 million for the fourth quarter of 2012.
We expect our full year LIFO charge to be approximately $55 million for 2013.
This is the same as our LIFO charge for fiscal 2012.
Where it ultimately ends up could be one of the factors that will determine where we land in the $2.71 to $2.79 EPS range.
A higher LIFO charge would move us down in the range and a lower LIFO charge would move us up in the range.
As I said earlier we expect Kroger's full year FIFO operating margin rate in 2013 excluding fuel to expand slightly compared to fiscal 2012 results.
This morning we filed an 8-K summarizing the guidance and financial strategy that I just discussed and some additional items including pension contributions and expense and our tax rate expectations.
Now I will turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
And as you can tell we're very pleased with our financial results for the quarter and the year.
Kroger's performance is the result of our associates' hard work and commitment to make each day better for our customers.
We grew our business in 2012.
And building on that momentum we expect to deliver the growth in 2013 that we outlined at our investor meeting in October.
Now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I remember at the Analyst Day you had referenced the incremental CapEx would be a pressure to your SG&amp;A in the near term yet you still held that 8% to 11% range.
Is there something as you look out to 2013 that gives you greater confidence than the long-term range and maybe if you can just give us a little more color? Well the increased capital it'll have an effect on holding down our ROIC ability to grow that in the short term.
We do expect to continue to not have that go down but as Rodney said grow it in the near term.
As we open the stores if you look at our guidance we opened up 44 stores in 2012 and we're projecting 45 to 50 in 2013.
So that's not a dramatic increase year-on-year that would have any kind of material effect on -- or from a preopening cost standpoint or the ramp-up of those new stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one other quick detail.
On the pharmacy business how should we be thinking about the generic shift impact in the quarter? And I know you referenced that it'll be a little bit less next year but maybe if you can help us quantify that? Let me make a comment first and then I'll ask Rodney to answer the specific question.
But I wanted to make the broad observation that our pharmacy business this past year was outstanding.
And I want to make sure that anybody who's touched our pharmacy business in our organization knows how we feel about that.
We were absolutely thrilled.
So Rodney you want to comment about the generic effect? Yes.
The generic effect kept getting bigger and bigger as we went through the year and we're just now starting to cycle the beginning parts of that.
So the heavy -- the largest effect will be in the first and second quarters.
It'll get a little smaller in the third and fourth but not tremendously smaller.
And we also obviously have a few more drugs going to generic.
So we believe it will be a headwind from a sales standpoint throughout the year.
One of the things that's very positive as Dave mentioned we had a great year on pharmacy.
And so far this year we've continued to have a strong script count growth in pharmacy as well.
Your next question comes from Andrew Wolf from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask you Dave when you mentioned the variability in sales I'm not surprised to hear that given all that's going on in the macro environment.
But has that increased a lot compare -- I think you had mentioned it last quarter too and I asked you about it.
But is that something that's -- the amplitude the amount of variability is increasing.
Or is that something to call out that we should think about? I think we've seen it more amplified in the last 6 months or so than it had been and that's why I called it out last quarter.
And I think what we saw this last quarter was much of the same.
Now last year was also hampered by the fact that there was a 2-day swing in the calendar because of leap day a year ago and when you come to the first of month or end of the month.
And we've now rounded that so we don't have that issue to contend with.
But the issues that I was referring to really is the fragile nature of the consumer and I think that they ended up swinging with -- almost with that day's news.
Now that may be a little bit of an exaggeration but you can see as we do our polling you can see heightened awareness.
In January for instance on taxes -- I mean that just shows crystal clear that it was on their minds.
And I think it's things like that that caused them to have that swing in how they approach their own daily living.
Research Division</strong> So that polling information that's correlating somewhat with sale -- behavior and people...
Well actually we're calling out specifically in this case because sometimes we can see behavior in sales as we did actually see it a couple years ago when the debt ceiling was been debated.
But this time when you look at the payroll tax lots was written about the payroll tax and lots of people were assuming.
Of course it's early in that process so I don't know that we'll feel differently -- could feel differently down the road.
But right now what we see is taxes and the payroll tax and other issues like that on people's minds in a very noticeable way and we see the variability from day to day week to week.
But we do not see what we think is a dollar sales impact in total on what's happening from the payroll tax.
The other thing on top of that is in some states government transfer payments the way those payments are made have changed and we haven't yet cycled a year with the new schedule on transfer payments being made to recipients.
So that creates some of the volatility as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One follow-up then I'll cede because of your one-question rule.
Did the delay in tax payments do you think that also affected the cadence and the variability in the sales results? It certainly could have.
It wasn't a big enough factor that we would be able to -- that we were able to discern it specifically in our minds.
But it's one of the factors that I think we would list and it's what was going on in the consumer's world.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Mark Wiltamuth.
We saw a number of other retailers show some holiday cautiousness on the part of consumers.
Did you see any of that across the demographic cuts that you do as you look at your data? Well of course there were some signs of caution.
But on the other hand actually we were pleased with our holiday selling period and the weeks that followed actually too.
So I would say nothing that should be called out at this point.
Rodney you want to add anything to that? No.
No.
Research Division</strong> And Mike if you could maybe quantify your health care and pension headwinds because you still have a strong earnings growth story here but it sounds like there are some headwinds we just can't see behind the scenes.
Well health care and pension headwinds are always out there.
We -- in the 8-K we filed what we expect our contributions to the union funds to be for pensions and that dollar for dollar is an expense item.
Whatever we contribute is an expense.
The other item that's out there is the amount of expense we expect for the company-sponsored pension plan.
And that's actually a little lower next year than we would have originally expected.
But those items are always out there.
It's one of the reasons why our identical sales performance is so important.
And our goal is to be able to grow identical sales faster than our underlying costs are going so we can make the operating profit margin growth be what we expect.
Your next question comes from the line of Ajay Jain from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll address this to Mike Schlotman.
I noticed your D&amp;A was lower compared to last year and I think it was down more materially if you account for the calendar shift.
So just wondering is there any change in your schedule? Can you just talk about what's driving that decrease? And what's implicit in your 2013 guidance for D&amp;A expense? I wouldn't say there's anything specific that winds up being in there.
Some of it's just reflective of some older stuff becoming fully depreciated.
As you know when you look at our CapEx keep in mind not everything we spend capital on gets depreciated because we like owning our properties.
So therefore we buy the land and that doesn't wind up in depreciation.
So it doesn't affect that.
We would expect the depreciation to be up a little bit in 2013 compared to 2012 on an apples-to-apples basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up maybe you guys mentioned it earlier and I might have missed it but I just wanted to ask if you could comment on the intra-quarter ID trends? Yes.
The ID trends grew.
By the 13th period they were the strongest of the quarter which is our last period of that quarter.
And in fact you didn't ask about it but I'll add the additional 4 quarter -- or 4 weeks rather 4.5 weeks that we've had since that time.
If you take the 13th period and the 4.5 weeks since that time they both were about the same and they both exceeded actually slightly above what our sales range guidance is for the year 2013.
So we're pleased with that.
We did have some weather in the last few weeks that has positively helped our sales.
But even if you take that out I think we were solidly -- certainly above the midpoint of what the guidance is that we gave.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel from Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill down a little bit on sort of the market share performance.
So if I'm right the share gains have moderated a little bit say from '11 and '10.
Is that just because the prior gains were unsustainable and where we are now is more sustainable? Or I don't know how you've dove into that and taken a look at that.
And then as part of that if you then looked at loyal households you looked at different customer groups and/or different competitors is there something where as you dice it the market share gains are actually stronger or accelerating with certain customers and again certain competitors? Let me take a shot at the market share question and then I'll see if Rodney wants to bring that and the loyal households together.
But on the market share I would encourage you not to think of it as an accounting number and with precision.
I would think of it as more a directional picture.
It's a very helpful indicator of where things are headed but I think it's more important really to look at it in combination with other things.
So the first thing we noted on our market share was that it has been growing in the second half of the year so that you can assume that  the comparison for the year that we're -- we may have had -- we had some -- we did have.
In fact we talked about some of the struggles we had with tonnage early last year and that's changed.
Our tonnage through the last half of this past year was strong.
And in fact as I indicated on the sales so far in the 4.5 weeks we've had it in this quarter our tonnage continued strong too.
So if you combine the sales trends we've experienced the tonnage we have experienced with what the ACNielsen material shows us it's certainly directionally strong.
Yes it may be a little bit less than what it had been but I don't -- in terms of market share.
But I don't think it's a meaningful variance.
I don't think that the numbers are that accurate that we can see that kind of variance in them.
Rodney you may want to add to that and feel free to comment on the households.
Yes.
I would -- I agree completely.
And as Dave and I both mentioned and I mentioned earlier we've improved during the year.
So actually the last half of the year the gains were better than the overall year.
When you look at customer segments the value customer early in the year we were very soft on share with that type of customer and it's improved nicely.
But that would have been the -- earlier in the year that would have been a very soft area of our share by segment.
If you look at more a traditional and upscale customer those customer gains were really across the year and continue to be very nice.
LLC Research Division</strong> And when you guys look at -- to Dave's point you think it's -- share and comp together is probably a good matrix to use.
And the levels we're at today you're comfortable with.
I would also think as the capital program picks up share will pick up.
Maybe there's some cannibalization but share should pick up as you roll out more stores correct? I would agree with all of that.
I would add to the metric.
I would add tonnage too.
So I'd look at ID sales tonnage and then what the ACNielsen material shows.
And I'd look for the intersection of what those 3 things together are telling us.
That's how we look at it.
And there's not one single number that gives you all the answers and that's one of the things that your comment really highlights is you really need to look across more than one to get a feel overall.
But at the end of the day we felt very good about the progress we made on share gain last year in all markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I would like to actually talk a little bit more about tonnage.
I thought there were comments that you were making last year that the tonnage weakness was to some extent a result of high inflation at the beginning of the year.
And then produce was deflationary so you started to see some tonnage improvement.
Is it fair to think about it in that sort of broad sense about the consumer and pricing? Or do think that whatever happens with tonnage is just based on what you guys do? Meredith I think it's actually both personally.
We were -- I think we admitted a little surprise in how quickly tonnage returned when inflation subsided.
I thought it would take longer than it did.
And so obviously that has -- it has something to do with the fact that inflation subsided.
But I also would like to think that we positioned ourselves really well to take advantage of that situation by the investments we've made in price and with the improvements that we continue to make in the other 3 keys in our stores.
So I really think it ends up being both.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I wanted to -- you had great success in terms of controlling expenses in the fourth quarter and congratulations on that.
I know there's always a whole lot of different things you're working on but is there anything that particularly stood out in the fourth quarter? And did the extra week which we had guessed would benefit $0.07 and it benefited by $0.11 did the extra week contribute particularly much to that improvement in SG&amp;A -- or OG&amp;A? Yes.
Thanks Meredith for the comment.
And on the OG&amp;A improvement that I mentioned on the call it was adjusted for the extra week so we did not get any benefit in the number that I shared.
In terms of specifics to call out it was really broad based.
It's almost every division of the company and it's really core operations.
Obviously having good tonnage growth and identical sales gives you some tailwind so we had that across the whole company which was helpful but just very good execution on our strategy and the things that we've identified.
I wouldn't highlight one Mike or Dave.
I...
No I agree with you.
It's actually refreshing that there's not one to highlight.
That means there's a lot of things contributed to it and the fact that it's broad based can make it sustainable.
And I do tend to look at that number over a longer period.
One quarter is good.
The number Rodney used in his -- in the prepared comments was the full year number and I think that's a better reflection of how we did.
Now that's still pretty darn good.
But I tend to look over a long haul because the longer the period the more likely that what you did is sustainable.
And the things we did were really process-oriented.
And changes that our customers actually either prefer or don't notice either one.
Research Division</strong> And then my final question would just be about labor and maybe you could talk about -- you don't have to talk about any individual contract but in terms of generally the negotiation are you able to stick with kind of the total numbers you want to get in terms of labor cost increases balancing the health care pension and wages? Well there's 2 balances we actually -- probably more that we try to make each time.
First -- or probably second is the one you mentioned is balancing the health care costs pension costs and so forth and those are going to continue to be issues that need to be addressed.
But the first balance that we actually try to address is on one hand we do have the natural tension of wanting and needing to keep our expenses down low as a company.
On the other hand we genuinely want our associates to be fairly paid certainly paid based on what the market rates are and so forth.
We have a workforce that we've very proud of and we don't look at this as something that is some opposition argument.
We're trying to actually work on their side on this argument.
We're trying to find a way to balance the business needs with what our associates need.
So that's how we think of the labor.
Now Rodney you may have some specifics.
No.
That's it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason DeRise from USB (sic) [UBS].
Research Division</strong> It's Jason DeRise at UBS.
I wanted to ask a question on guidance and I guess it's multipart and so I'm going to put them all together and then what you're able to share will be great in terms of the color.
So obviously we have the square footage piece of that but it's not a net.
So I'm wondering if you can share what you're planning in terms of closures.
Obviously you're not going to be able to share what acquisitions you're planning on doing unless you want to.
Feel free to.
And then in terms of the FIFO x-fuel gross margin if you can share some thoughts on what you think between the gross margin element and the SG&amp;A leverage? And then I guess the other ones that aren't mentioned directly but are going to be important in understanding this is the fuel contribution expected and the buybacks expected.
So basically the question is asking for more color on the guidance.
The square footage at this point in time we always give what we expect gross square footage to do.
Our model is not built needing any acquisitions to make our numbers so that's why we always say excluding acquisitions.
If there were something out there that worked it would be something that's additive to our results because we don't need to do anything to have -- to reach our growth expectations.
Relative to the closures while there are certainly a handful that are out there that's something that occurs throughout the year as we constantly look at our portfolio of assets and look at what stores may need to close.
I don't have a specific number for that at this point that we would -- that I would be willing to disclose.
Relative to...
Research Division</strong> Can I ask if it would be a -- we would expect a net positive number? Because I mean I guess last year there was a positive gross number out there but it...
It's been a net positive for the last several years.
Sometimes what happens is we -- there have been occasions where we've closed a couple smaller stores and opened up one bigger store.
And it looks like our store count goes down but that bigger store is actually more square footage than the 2 stores we closed on a combined basis.
So that certainly helps.
When you look at the FIFO fuel gross margin and without fuel gross margin and SG&amp;A leverage we don't give specific guidance on those line items.
We always expect to get SG&amp;A savings that we'll invest back on our 4 keys whatever line that key might fall in the income statement.
And our overall goal was to grow our operating margin for the year slightly from the prior year and that would remain our goal for this year.
And relative to fuel contribution I would say typically when we go into a year and when you for instance when you look at the fourth quarter of the year it was only $0.01 difference without the extra week between the 2 years' fourth quarters.
So the growth in that is not something that's a huge driver of the 8% to 11% earnings per share growth rate.
Usually we just use what Mike a 3-year rolling average in terms of the actual results and use that as a base point.
Right.
Look at gross margin per gallon over the last 3 years and that's about where we start.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All of that's useful.
I guess in terms -- just to follow-up on the gross margin element.
Within this last quarter that you talked about I guess it's your inflation cost that you're talking about at 1.7% but your large national competitor was talking about how their basket inflation was 0.8%.
So I mean if you're passing through that most of that 1.7% there's a gap there.
I know a lot of people in the market are trying to interpret how the new 8% to 11% guidance -- what that means in terms of your aggressiveness in price or if you're pulling back.
So if you can share some thoughts on that if maybe your pricing isn't as aggressive in the quarter as it has been relative to your competition? It's really a little bit of apples and oranges.
What we measure is our estimated inflation based on using government statistics on inflation by category at the mix of business we have.
If you look at the actual basket that customers are buying from us it would have a completely different inflation rate and it would actually be meaningfully less especially if the customer has pharmacy in their basket it's substantially less.
So it's -- those 2 are really apples and oranges.
And what we try to give on an inflation rate is more based on our sales mix and some of the government statistics out there.
Research Division</strong> Do you feel that you maintained or improved your price position during the quarter? Our internal measures would all show that we've improved our relative price position versus all our major competitors not just the one that you mentioned.
And we have no expectation that that will change.
Your next question comes from the line of Karen Short of firm BMO Capital.
Back on the inflation and the LIFO for a minute.
When you guys gave your guidance for the LIFO charge for the full year in your third quarter call it seemed like you kind of expected inflation to come in where it came in for the year.
So I guess I'm confused about the credit this quarter.
And then looking to next year I guess what are your expectations on inflation for next year? Because given the LIFO charge for this year just kind of going back to your P&amp;L in prior years it would look like you're kind of expecting like 1-ish percent.
Yes.
In the -- at the end of the third quarter when we gave our expectation for LIFO our expectation at that time was that our full year LIFO charge would be $125 million.
So through 10 periods we had expensed enough to have 10/13 of $125 million behind us.
So when the year wound up at only $55 million by the time we got to the end of the year we had almost $95 million a little over $95 million accrued.
So we had to reduce that number down to the $55 million which led to the credit in the fourth quarter.
That make sense? Yes that makes sense.
Okay.
And then for next year your inflation expectations? Relative to next year at this point in time we're estimating LIFO to be at $55 million for next year just like this year.
As we sit here today with inflation in the 1 percentage kind of range maybe a little over depending how pharmacy winds up affecting that we think that's the best guess at this time.
The other thing to keep in mind is inflation throughout the year has no effect on LIFO.
So the fact that last year was very high early in the year and then it trended down throughout the year doesn't really affect LIFO.
It is a single day point in time calculation of how many products do I have this year what was last year's price and this year's price on that particular day.
Now that's a little bit of a Reader's Digest version of how the calculation works but it gets you close.
Okay that's helpful.
And then wondering if you'd be prepared to give CapEx allocation for next year? You mean how much capital investment we plan to make? Or...
No the allocation in -- I mean you gave the dollars in your 8-K but wondering if you could give the allocation? You mean allocation by what we're sort of spending on stores and things like that? Category.
Yes.
Well I wouldn't get into the exact dollar amount of allocation but we also gave guidance that we expect to do one -- a few more stores new relocate and expands in 2013 compared to 2012 and probably a comparable number of remodels.
Most of the dollar increase would be driven by the store-in program that we've outlined incrementally.
And the other thing to keep in mind is as we're increasing our capital spend to focus on existing and some new fill-in markets as well as exploring new markets it takes a while for those stores to open.
So we'll be spending dollars in 2013 that wind up being 2014 store openings.
So the growth in that store count takes a while because the spending happens so far in advance of that.
So it'll be a slow growth or a slow build into the higher store count.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a last question maybe if you could give some color on both the competitive and the acquisition environment? It seems like on the acquisition side there may be some assets coming up or presenting themselves shortly? And then comments on the competitive environment? Well on the acquisition environment I would just give you the comments we've made before.
We don't generally comment.
What we've tried to do is share with you our philosophy how we approach that and that really hasn't changed at all from the past.
As to the competitive environment I would characterize it as we have recently it's still a hotly contested market a very competitive kind of a business.
That's the nature of our business.
But I see people making rational choices.
I don't see it as performing irrationally which is a good thing in our minds and I presume in yours too.
Rodney anything else you want to add to that? No.
No.
No.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping we could dig into the gross margin the FIFO gross margin a little bit this quarter.
It was a little bit lighter than what I thought it was going to be.
And I think if you were to look at it and remove the generic benefit my guess and this is where I'm hoping you could help but my guess is the selling gross margin this quarter is probably weaker than what we've seen otherwise this year.
So could you maybe just give us some more detail on selling what's going on on the shrink side maybe the non-selling side and how this -- how the margin played out versus what you were expecting? It really played out very close to what we were expecting.
And as you know one of the things that we always work on is making sure we balance with our expense improvements.
And any given quarter you can't always get a balance perfectly.
But for the year we work really hard to get those 2 balanced.
And it's driven as much by balancing those 2 pieces.
If you look at it versus what we were expecting it was very close to what we were expecting.
Obviously the generics improved gross margin selling gross margins for the quarter.
But overall we were pleased with where it ended up and felt good about the balance.
And we felt good about our relative price position in the market from a competitive standpoint.
Rodney I agree.
And when you look at operating profit margin which is what we always focus on the fact we grew it by 6 basis points when really through 3 quarters year-to-date we were slightly negative demonstrates the strong cost control.
And the fact that we really -- as Rodney said our -- we executed the plan we had and it came to fruition in the fourth quarter because a lot of what occurred was somewhat planned.
It was planned.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the repo front share repurchase how should we think about '13? I mean it's obvious that you're not probably going to buy back nearly as much stock this upcoming year as you did in the past.
Will you still be borrowing to maintain a leverage ratio and then using that to buy stock? Again the use of our cash flow including maintaining our net total debt to EBITDA ratio in our 2x to 2.2x range will really be used for all 4 of the things we laid out and that's to fund our capital investments; to repurchase shares; maintain and hopefully over time grow our dividend; as well as maintaining our current credit rating.
So we'll balance all of those needs.
Relative to the stock share buyback we would expect to continue to buy in shares.
We obviously didn't buy as much in the fourth quarter as we had throughout the course of the year.
That was not any kind of a statement on where our share price was in the fourth quarter relative to the rest of the year.
It was really based on the fact that we were cognizant of where our debt levels were going into the fourth quarter and the fact of the way the rating agencies look at our debt level things like our $250 million contribution to our EBIT [ph] at the end of the year it's a very smart thing to do from a tax standpoint because we accelerate the tax deduction.
But even though that burns off in the first few months of the next fiscal year they treat it as debt at the end of the year.
So I would have -- it made great return sense to make that contribution and get the tax deduction this year versus next year and balance that with how much free cash flow that leaves me to buy in shares.
So we try to balance all of our needs on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Kelly Bania from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could go back to some comments you made a little earlier about the value and the traditional and upscale consumers and how the value kind of improves through the year.
I was wondering one what do you think has driven that? Have you been catering to that a little bit better as we move through the year? And two how do you think the volatility -- the mild volatility that you saw in January how did that impact those different customer segments? Yes in terms of -- it would definitely have been targeted things that we did looking at the customer.
It's one of the things that's such a wonderful benefit of our partnership with dunnhumby.
That example was on a value customer but we'd really look at it on every customer segment.
We're constantly testing marketing direct marketing with different customers and different methods of direct marketing.
And when something connects we do more of it.
When it doesn't connect we don't do it as much.
And when we're not satisfied with our performance we will work and put some extra focus there.
So it really was something that we weren't pleased with we weren't connecting as well as we liked and made some changes to make sure that we did and that improvement happened.
In January it's really hard -- as Dave mentioned before it's really hard to see some of the external numbers affecting -- the external things that went on we don't really see it in our numbers.
We believe some of that is probably really driven because we had connected better with some of those customer segments for some of the things we had put in place.
What happened at other companies we really don't have insight into that.
But we really didn't see the -- in total the variability as we mentioned from a day-to-day basis we do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I can just squeeze in one more follow-up.
Can you give any color on the tonnage trends? As you look back over the year between the core grocery categories and the fresh you mentioned kind of the seafood being strong.
But any more color there you can give us? It improved throughout the year and it was broad based on the improvement in all categories.
So it really would be difficult to call out one area being stronger than the other.
The only area that I would probably specifically call out is obviously pharmacy had great script count growth throughout the year and our natural foods area had a phenomenal year as well.
And it was strong throughout the year.
Your final question comes from the line of Greg Hessler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize I missed a little bit of the beginning of the call.
I was just wondering if you could talk about the upcoming maturity the $400 million maturity in April? Do you plan to turn that out into debt capital markets? Yes.
We've talked -- we have not talked about that yet on the call.
We actually had a maturity right at the beginning of this fiscal year that we drew down -- that we actually have refinanced with commercial paper on a temporary basis.
And then as you said we have the other maturity in April.
Our expectation would be that sometime in April that we would term those out.
If you look at our SEC filings we already have a significant amount of that kind of an issuance contemplated and hedged out from an interest rate standpoint and that coverage goes out until April.
So it may not be the exact day.
But dependent on market conditions I would expect somewhere around that time we will wind up terming those out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that could be maybe up to $1 billion in size.
Any thoughts on tenor there? Do you have any preference for shorter-dated stuff? Or should we be thinking about 10s or 30s? Or what are your thoughts there? We'll let the market tell us where the sweet spot is.
Sometimes we may start out with a particular idea.
And then we find out as you start to look at the market on that particular day that there's a hole on our maturity chart that fits with what the market has an appetite for on that particular day.
So rather than lock myself in when we go to market we'll let the market tells us what makes the most sense.
And before we end the call today I would like to share a few additional thoughts with our associates who we encouraged to listen in today.
2013 marks the 130th anniversary when Barney Kroger opened his first store in Cincinnati Ohio.
This is an amazing accomplishment and yet 2 of our banners have been in business even longer: Ralph's division which is 140 years old; and the Jay C Foods division which celebrates its 150th anniversary this year.
Our heritage of enduring growth and reinvention gives us great confidence for the future.
Each of you played a big part in the success in 2012.
Working together as a team we made shopping more easy and efficient for our customers and they're giving us credit for all of our hard work.
We also helped keep costs under control so that we could invest the savings and lower prices.
A special thanks to each of you for your contributions.
This week we also thank 36 special Kroger associates for their extraordinary efforts for our company and our communities.
We honor these associates because they represent strong leadership courage and character.
They live our leadership model and our values by leading effective teams serving local community organizations making healthy lifestyle changes and more.
You can find more about each of our honorees by watching our live quarterly broadcast tomorrow or reading their inspiring stories at the greatpeople.me website in the coming weeks.
That completes our call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2013 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Colby and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Colby.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our first quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
We are hopeful that you can join us for our 2013 investor conference to be held in New York in October.
We will provide details later this year and look forward to seeing many of you then.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's first quarter 2013 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The year is off to a great start.
In the first quarter we achieved strong sales and record earnings per share.
In our investor conference last October we outlined our long-term strategy and strategic and capital investment plans which included expanding into new markets and adding square footage in markets where we currently operate.
Based upon these plans our positive identical store sales growth for the last 9 years plus and our strong earnings per share results in 2011 and 2012 we raised our long-term earnings per share growth rate guidance to 8% to 11% plus an increasing dividend.
These first quarter results give us continued confidence that we will achieve our long-term guidance again this year.
Our ability to achieve earnings per share growth of this magnitude puts Kroger in an exclusive class of companies capable of delivering...
[Technical Difficulty] I'm sure we're live.
Are we back on? We must be.
Okay so let me continue.
Our ability to achieve earnings per share growth of this magnitude puts Kroger in an exclusive class of companies capable of delivering this level of growth on a consistent basis.
I am very proud of our associates for delivering another quarter of inspired Customer 1st performance.
We're connecting with our customers better than ever before and their positive view of Kroger continues to improve.
Our associates also did an outstanding job of keeping costs down this quarter.
We continue to find our cost savings in places that do not negatively impact our customer shopping experience so that we can reinvest those savings in ways that create lasting customer loyalty.
As a result of this cycle we achieved our 38th consecutive quarter of positive identical store sales growth.
Our solid operating performance continues to support our plans to increase capital investment to grow our business over time.
We continue to monitor how 4 factors are affecting consumer confidence: the overall state of the economy fluctuating gas prices payroll taxes and government policy uncertainty.
While there are signs of a better economy the improvement is not robust.
Customer sentiment is gradually improving but remains fragile.
We continue to see high variability in sales comparisons between days and weeks.
Overall we are confident that we will meet the targets we committed to in October both now and in the future.
We've raised our fiscal 2013 earnings per share guidance to reflect this confidence.
Rodney will now provide additional details about our first quarter business performance.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results demonstrate the progress we are making on our long-term growth strategy.
We continue to narrow our focus on new markets for future expansion and to add square footage in several fill-in markets.
Fort Wayne Indiana is a good example of where we've done this successfully.
Over the last several years we've upgraded our position in the market by investing in new stores and remodels completing an acquisition and making incremental investments in our people through training and leadership development.
As a result we have doubled our market share in Fort Wayne over the last 5 years.
We view this as a successful pilot and are well underway with similar strategies in several other markets.
A key growth metric of our business is identical sales because it provides the best measure of our growing relevance with customers over time.
We are very pleased with our first quarter identical supermarket sales growth of 3.3% without fuel.
This is even better when you look at identical sales without fuel and pharmacy.
On this basis our identical sales grew to 4% versus 3.2% on a comparable basis last year.
Sales growth in the first quarter was driven by loyal household growth more visits per household and increases in prices per unit.
In addition to visiting our stores more frequently customers continue to buy more on a monthly basis.
Items per basket were slightly up on a per trip basis and a monthly basis.
As a result total units sold was up solidly compared to last year.
During the first quarter we grew the number of loyal households in all divisions.
Our loyal household growth count grew at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
The product cost inflation is estimated at 1.7% excluding fuel.
Every store department had inflation with the exception of seafood which had deflation.
Our pharmacy business has undergone a lot of change in the last 18 months and we are thrilled with where we are.
The amount of Express Scripts volume that we have -- the amount of Express Scripts volume we retained.
As expected the effect of generics continued in the first quarter which I described earlier affected identical sales by 70 basis points.
Even with these headwinds our pharmacy team continues to deliver outstanding performance including solidly positive script count growth.
I want to echo Dave's earlier comment that our associates did a great job controlling costs in the first quarter.
OG&amp;A costs plus rent and depreciation without fuel were down 21 basis points as a percent of sales.
Now I'd like to update you on the progress in corporate brand.
As we said last quarter our practice had been to disclose our corporate brand share in the grocery category only.
Given the breadth of our corporate brand offerings we are now comfortable to give you a view of our share across the whole store excluding fuel and pharmacy.
On this broader basis corporate brands represented approximately 26% of total units sold up 30 basis points compared to the first quarter last year.
Total corporate brand sales dollars were 23.7% also up 30 basis points compared to the same period last year.
We continue to see impressive growth in our Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic brands.
We are regularly adding new items.
In fact we plan to launch 75 new items between now and the end of this year and today offer 450 honest easy and affordable Simple Truth options for our customers.
And by the way they're great.
We also continue to make progress to integrate sustainable practices into our everyday business operation.
Next week we will publish our seventh Annual Sustainability Report.
As a preview I'd like to highlight some of the -- our most successful initiatives of 2012.
We have reduced total store energy usage by 32.7% since the year 2000.
We also reduced our carbon footprint and made significant progress toward our goal of 0 waste.
21 of our 37 manufacturing plants have now achieved the impressive goal of sending 0 waste to landfills.
I'd like to thank our associates for bringing all these initiatives to life through their individual actions each and every day.
Their efforts are helping make each community we serve a better place to live.
Finally an update on labor relations.
Our store associates ratified a series of new labor agreements covering stores in Michigan Houston Indianapolis plus Fred Meyer and QFC stores in Oregon.
We have many contracts that have expired or will expire soon including contracts in Roanoke Seattle and later this year in Cincinnati and Dallas.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive cost and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates have a shared objective.
Growing Kroger's business and profitability will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for all of our associates.
In fact over the last 5 years we've added 33 000 jobs.
Now Mike will provide more detail on Kroger's first quarter financial results and our guidance for the rest of the year.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Total sales increased 3.4% to $30 billion in the first quarter compared with $29.1 billion for the same period last year.
Total sales excluding fuel increased 3.8% in the first quarter over the same period last year.
Net earnings for the first quarter totaled $481 million or $0.92 per diluted share.
Net earnings for the first quarter of last year were $439 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
Several factors contributed to this great result including strong operations lower LIFO expense lower share count and partially offset by our higher effective tax rate this year.
FIFO gross margin was 20.65% of sales for the first quarter.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 15 basis points from the same period last year.
The company recorded a $17 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $46 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
We were pleased to deliver on our goal to grow FIFO operating margin in the first quarter.
First quarter FIFO operating profit excluding fuel increased approximately $47 million over the prior year.
Excluding fuel and the extra week in fiscal 2012 on a rolling 4 quarters basis FIFO operating margin increased 11 basis points.
On a rolling 4 quarter 52-week basis return on invested capital was 13.5% compared to 13.4% during the same period last year.
We are committed to growing our ROIC over time even with the higher level of capital spending.
Turning now to retail fuel operations.
We disclosed many items with and without fuel due to its effect on operating costs and gross rates but we view fuel as a core department that over time is expected to contribute to earnings per share growth.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the first quarter our supermarket fuel centers margin per gallon was approximately $0.116 compared to $0.121 in the same quarter last year.
As it relates to retails per gallon in all fuel outlets they averaged $3.52 in this quarter compared to $3.65 last year.
Total gallons sold showed solid growth.
Our planned uses of cash remain unchanged: Maintain our current investment grade debt rating repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and fund capital investments.
You will notice on our balance sheet that the current portion of long-term debt has increased and our net total-debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio has declined to 1.85.
As it relates to the current portion of long-term debt we made the conscious decision to fund out our first quarter maturities using the historically low interest rates available in the commercial paper market.
Since we have hedged the expected financings our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates has been mitigated.
The lower-than-expected net total-debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was primarily a result of our stock's recent performance which took us out of the market for share repurchases based on the 10b5-1 we had [ph] in place at the time.
As you know we modify our grid from time to time.
We currently have $447 million remaining on our board authorization and believe that repurchases in the current range are attractive.
During the first quarter Kroger repurchased 4.5 million common shares for a total investment of $146 million.
Kroger's strong financial position has allowed the company to return more than $1.3 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last 4 quarters.
Capital investment totaled $646 million for the first quarter compared to $557 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect full-year capital investments to be in the $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range.
Now I'll update our growth objectives for fiscal 2013.
Based on the first quarter results we increased our net earnings guidance range to $2.73 to $2.80 per diluted share for the year.
Our original guidance was $2.71 to $2.79 per diluted share.
The company's long-term growth rate guidance is 8% to 11% and shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend that we expect to grow over time.
The calculation of our growth rate for fiscal 2013 is based on our fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per share of $2.52 as was shown in Table 6 of the fourth quarter press release.
Adjustments include the UFCW consolidated pension plan lability the credit card settlement and the extra week.
As you look at our expectations for the year please keep in mind the guidance we gave in March for the fourth quarter.
On a 12-week basis we still expect this year's fourth quarter to be behind the fourth quarter last year.
This is because we currently expect a $13 million LIFO charge in the fourth quarter this year compared to a credit of $41 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Kroger continues to expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 2.5% to 3.5% for fiscal year 2013.
Now I will turn it back to Dave.
Thank you Mike.
I understand that at the beginning of the call several of you were not able to hear our opening comments.
And so I know that a lot of the purpose of this call is to give you a sense of how we felt about the quarter.
So I'm going to go back and repeat just a little bit of what I think you may have missed.
The most important part you missed was the stunning oratory that Cindy offered of the forward-looking statement caution.
But that rather than read that you I just want to you know that is posted online so you can find that there.
But the other paragraph that you missed was my initial comments about how I felt about the quarter and so I want to read those to you they're important.
I said that this year is off to a great start.
And in the first quarter we achieved strong sales and record earnings per share.
In our investor conference this last October we outlined our long-term strategy our strategic and capital investment plans which include expanding into new markets and adding square footage in markets where we currently operate.
Based upon these plans our positive identical sales growth for more than 9 years and our strong earnings per share results in 2011 and '12 we raised our long-term earnings per share growth rate guidance from 8% to 11% plus an increasing dividend.
These first quarter results that we're here to talk about today give us continued confidence that we will achieve our long-term earnings guidance again this year.
Our ability to achieve earnings per share growth of this magnitude puts Kroger in an exclusive class of companies capable of delivering this level of growth on a consistent basis.
So with that background before I turn to questions I want to close with these observations.
I'm very proud of the Kroger team's relentless focus on delivering on our Customer 1st strategy quarter after quarter.
It's what sets us apart from competition.
Our customers' positive view of Kroger continues to improve and they are rewarding us with their loyalty.
We achieved strong sales and record earnings per share for the quarter controlled costs and delivered on our goal to improve FIFO operating margin.
The momentum coming out of the first quarter will continue to drive growth and greater shareholder value.
So now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First did the first quarter come in a little bit better than you guys had planned in light of sort of the quarterly breakdown Mike had given on the last call? If that's true what may have driven the upside in your mind? And then I know on the last call Mike you'd also -- you'd talked about the second and third quarter being up toward the high end of your long-term range.
Are those still about right or has anything changed there? Yes the second and third quarter guidance would remain unchanged and we didn't call that out in the prepared comments.
I focused only on the fourth quarter.
Just to make sure everybody remembered that's what we said about the fourth quarter.
Relative to the first quarter yes it came out a little better than we expected.
Sales were a little stronger than we had anticipated at the beginning of the year so I would say it was primarily a sales-driven beat in the first quarter and just as well was great execution at store level from a cost control standpoint as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as you think about market share maybe for Dave and Rodney when you think about market share and we give the Fort Wayne example have you yet had a market and I'm not sure if it would be Cincinnati or Denver or one of those a market where you've not been able to increase share you've hit a natural ceiling.
And then when you think about the incremental margin attached to that does that -- as you get to certain points of share whether it be 30 or 35 or whatever does the incremental margin sort of step up up to a certain point and then flatten out or how do you think about the economics of that? Well I'm sure there's some point of diminishing returns but I don't think we found it yet.
And I think we're pleased that at any of the historical references we would have to look at market share we're not going talk about specific markets in that regard but we have plenty of examples some of which you've already listed that illustrate well how that strategy will work.
Rodney you want to add anything to that? The only thing I would add is one of the things that we continue to expand some of the things we offer in a market too.
So if you look at the core grocery business you may start getting a cap there or a diminishing return.
But one of the things that we've had and we've had very good results that help our return on investment is expanding some of the things we're offering.
So in some of the markets that you gave examples of if you look at our marketplace store we're finding we are getting good returns by expanding what we offer to the customer.
That's a really good point because it is a dynamic marketplace and things will change over time and even when you think you've hit a peak you just push yourself to find additional either products or services or remodel the stores or approach the stores differently.
It's just a dynamic place.
And we do -- every time we do an investment project we look at the incremental effect that it has on surrounding stores to make sure that their incremental return is there.
And so it becomes store specific on each individual investment decision.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess you haven't hit a peak yet in share as far as you can tell in any market right? Not that we can tell.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I would like to just understand a little bit your sales guidance.
You're still maintaining the 2.5% to 3.5% although you hit close to the high end.
And I would have thought that generics would have been a particularly negative impact on the first quarter probably even through the whole first half and then I think fuel prices were down a little bit.
So are you being just very conservative or is there something about sales for the next 3 quarters that make you believe that you'll stay no more than this range? It's really just so early in the year and it's just having 1/4 of the year over with.
Obviously so far we're very pleased with our sales.
We continue to strive to be in the top part of that range.
We continue to strive to be there.
But I would say the biggest thing is it's just early in the year and it felt too early to change guidance on that given all the uncertainty that's going on in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand that.
I guess I just would like to ask a little bit about inflation.
1.7% is not an excessively moderate number.
I don't know what the trends have looked like.
And a concern often is that if inflation gets to be moderate enough some retailers could end up with negative comps and you could see a heightening of the competitive environment.
Are you seeing anything like that anywhere or is there any reason to be concerned about that? Meredith I'll have Mike maybe comment on inflation and then Rodney on the competitive environment.
But the inflation we saw in the first quarter was very similar to what you saw in the fourth quarter.
And while there's a little push and take in what department it fell in it was very similar and quite moderate.
So you want to comment on where you see inflation anything else you want to add Mike? No I think inflation in the first quarter is about where we expected it to be and it's essentially in line with what we baked in to our expectations for the year.
And certainly from a competitive standpoint we don't see huge changes.
As you know we always try to make sure we stay flexible to deal with competitive changes as they happen.
But so far we haven't seen really any change going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
I guess my just one other question would be about your investments in new stores in maybe new markets or adjacent markets.
Is there anything in terms of what's happening with competitors or the real estate market that make you feel better or worse about the ability to generate a good return from those new investments? I think the decision more rides upon our confidence in what we're doing.
And I think it's somewhat independent.
I mean I suppose there's some outside factors that could cause you to go a different direction.
But more than anything it's really focused on what we do well and what we have confidence that we can continue to do well.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Krueger.
Research Division</strong> I'm with Crédit Suisse.
Dave could you discuss the cadence of your IDs throughout the quarter what you're seeing so far in Q2 and how underlying -- I guess underlying volume is probably the same since inflation is the same but could you just give a little bit color there? Sure.
I'll describe what I think I recall and Beth will correct me if I'm wrong because she's sitting here with me.
But earlier in the quarter let's say through the first half or even 2/3 of the way through the quarter was a little stronger than at the tail end of the quarter.
But we still ended up happy and strong at the end of the quarter.
And then so far after 3.5 weeks we've seen IDs without fuel to be very similar to what they were in the first quarter.
The other thing worth mentioning is just Easter.
Yes that's true.
The comment early in the quarter is certainly true.
Then when you look midway through the quarter it's a little harder to see because Easter was earlier this year than last year.
So some of the cycling of the change in Easter also affected the cadence during the quarter.
Yes I think we -- I'd tell you the same caution I tell ourselves is don't try to overread it because -- the first quarter in particular because of that Easter phenomenon.
Every year we're in this no man's land of trying to read are you happy or not happy with your sales? And the week before Easter the week after Easter and a few of the days surrounding either direction of that have a big impact on how you're going to feel.
So I wouldn't overread it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My next question for you is on the gross margin.
Historically there seems like our perception at least into the markets is there has been more volatility in your gross margin quarter-to-quarter.
Whereas you may see an opportunity to make an investment it's probably hurt sort of investor perception of the company historically.
But more recently it felt a little bit more consistent.
And I guess the question really is has there been any change in the way you sort of think about running the company in terms of the investments that you're making in margin and the volatility around that in terms of you trying to take advantage of different opportunities? Well I think you're well aware that we try to look at this on an annual basis.
However we have also tried to be a little more consistent and conscious of the way in which a quarter might appear so that we don't end up doing something abrupt in 1 quarter and wishing we hadn't done that and then the next quarter have to go the other direction.
So we have been a little bit more careful ourselves.
We also have learned a little bit better how to pace ourselves on those kinds of investments so that's helped.
Rodney you may want to comment a little bit on just how you see gross generally in the quarter.
Yes I would agree with the comments Dave made.
One of the things that over the last several years we've worked really hard to make sure that we understand what cost reductions we're getting and trying to make sure that we manage our gross investments tying in and getting costs out.
I would say that probably our internal estimation systems we feel they're of a little higher quality in terms of giving us really better estimates in terms of what we're seeing on taking costs out because of our operations team and our finance team working together which then in turn makes it a little easier to balance that with selling gross changes too.
Now one thing you ought to recognize too is that the moderation you saw in the first quarter was at least in part helped by the gross margin in pharmacy.
Rodney commented on that in his prepared remarks that pharmacy because of the change to generics has -- the sales dollars are down our script count is terrific but the effect on gross it tends to flip it a little bit because the gross margin has been improved.
Rodney you want to comment...
Well yes I was just going to say the change in pharmacy made a huge effect in the total numbers.
So if you look at the individual pieces it would have actually been a little more than what it appears on the total.
And I thought that's important for you to know but that was still on a very planned basis.
I mean we knew exactly where pharmacy was headed and I could see that completely coming.
So it wasn't a surprise to us at all.
Research Division</strong> And one very quick follow-up for Mike.
Mike is your SG&amp;A comparison in the second quarter as difficult as it looks? Dollars weren't -- not up much last year.
Should we consider that in the model? Yes I don't think it's something you should be overly concerned with.
I can't think of anything that we're facing right now as compared to the prior year.
And it's -- our expectations for the quarter are certainly baked into our guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A few quarters ago you had such I guess intense promotional spending from your vendors who sell branded food that your share of private label actually went down temporarily.
I'm curious I guess if you can update us on the promotional dynamic today among your branded vendors in general.
And the reason I'm asking is we're seeing some data today from Nielsen that would suggest maybe a broader number of grocery items sold on promotion today but we're not seeing either way how deep some of those discounts are.
So I guess I'm just curious for any color on the promotional dynamic overall among your grocery vendors.
I'll see if Rodney wants to give you specifics but before he does I would just say the keyword you used was dynamic.
And you should think of this as changing all the time I mean every month every quarter.
So I don't know that we're going to be able to identify a clear pattern for you.
But Rodney you have any comments on that? I mean if you just look at over a long period of time private label or corporate brands have continued to gain share.
Usually what happens is some CPGs will make more money than they should be because the raw material costs haven't increased.
And that always provides a huge umbrella for corporate brands to gain share which happens.
Then the CPGs will get a little more aggressive with promotional dollars which will bring it back down.
But what we find is very seldom does the share ever go back to where it was before.
There is a permanent loss when CPGs do that.
So it is as Dave mentioned it's a dynamic process but we -- overall we think that's one of the really important reasons and critical for us to have such a strong corporate brand program that connects with customers.
Your next question comes from Shane Higgins with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you guys just talk about I mean obviously there's been a lot of focus on rates.
If rates -- and I guess Mike you could -- maybe you can answer this.
If rates back up another 50 or 100 basis points what's going to be the overall impact on your expenses say over the next year or 2? Will that actually be a net positive since it could take certain expenses such as pensions down a little bit? It'll have some marginal effect on the funded status of my corporate plan.
Keep in mind that all the UFCW funds that we participate in actually present value their lability at the expected rate of return not current interest rate so it really won't have any affect on my UFCW funded status.
And the contributions to those funds are dictated by a contractual obligation anyway not necessarily an exact funded status.
So I don't really see any effect on my operating expenses as it relates to the backup in rates.
Even the -- it's interesting to talk about a 2.4% 10-year treasury or so as the backup in rates because it's still a historically low treasury rate.
And even if I had to refinance the debt I have coming due at these rates I still wind up leveraging down the weighted average cost of my debt portfolio.
So I'm still comfortable we're going to be able to execute the financial strategy we have.
Plus as I said earlier in my prepared comments we've actually been utilizing the -- our commercial paper availability rather than accessing the market because we've been able to borrow at such low rates.
And it helped the first quarter probably by $0.005.
So I don't really see a huge positive or negative at this point from where rates are.
Research Division</strong> And just a question on the fuel rewards program.
Have you guys made any significant changes to the fuel rewards promotions particularly as more and more competitors roll out these similar programs? We would continually offer different promotions on fuel rewards things like that.
But it -- it's one of the nice things about being first in the market.
It continues to connect extremely well with our customers and especially our oil customers.
But there's always different offers that you'll do in a specific market from time to time.
Your next question comes from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Dave I think I've asked you this before but when you mentioned the variability of sales not too surprising given some changes in payroll taxes and so on but has -- or are you trying to tell us the amplitude? Or has that gotten worse better or stayed the same? I'd say it's about like it had been that in short-term periods for like a day or a week often unpredictable but there's a reasonably clear pattern we've seen once you extend the time period to go to a period or a quarter.
So yes I'd say it's pretty much like what we've been seeing.
Rodney? The only thing that I would add and this is if you look at electronic benefit transfers states continue to change the days that the dollars go out on benefits which also causes some of the variability.
And you don't know how much of that variability is just because of that change or how much of it is broader than just that change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So obviously when it's smoothed out over a quarter or what have you things are fine.
Your IDs are excellent.
But how about operationally? I mean are you trying to say it's harder to set store hours because it's harder to predict who's coming in what day? It certainly is harder to make sure you stay in stock.
And I think our teams are doing a great job doing that but it does -- any type of variability obviously makes it a little more complicated to manage against.
Research Division</strong> And I also wanted to follow up just on the guidance.
You were above your internal expectations and then raised guidance a little bit.
So is that -- I just want to underline this or ask you to underline this.
Is that more what you're seeing out there either with the consumer or with pricing and competition? Or is it -- it just it -- is it just it's early yet and you just don't want to raise guidance more than you might want -- at this juncture raise guidance more than you did? No I think we're comfortable with the guidance we gave and it's where we believe we'll wind up on the year.
Obviously we raised the low end a little more than the high end and that's because of the strength of the first quarter.
We think that the low the potential low end will be better than we originally thought.
And I do want to remind folks that the fourth quarter we do as we sit here today on a 12-week 12-week basis expect that to be behind because of the LIFO swing.
And that's in our numbers but not necessarily in everybody else's numbers.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And I understand about the guidance.
I guess your guidance is your guidance.
But I guess I'm trying to say is -- was there any change during the quarter or now competitively or with the consumer that has changed your thinking on the year? I think relative to what we see for the rest of the year we remain committed to what our original guidance was.
And we tried to compare to our original expectations.
And we flowed that through our annual expectations and we're comfortable what we -- with what we see from our original expectations for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> And this is probably for Rodney.
Rodney in the past when you -- people ask you about M&amp;A you said a lot of the chains don't pencil out because their pricing in the market's too high.
Now as I think about the portfolio of banners at Kroger you actually run some high end and low end such as Food 4 Less and Quality Foods one which goes at a discount versus conventionals one that goes at a premium.
So how do you view -- when things come up in the marketplace that are either discount or premium type banners that are for sale how do you view looking at their relative pricing? Do you still want it to be in line with the market which you would I guess for typical conventional? Or do you adjust that thinking for the type of banner that you're -- that is out there in the marketplace? Yes.
I won't give any insight into how we actually analyze any opportunity that comes up.
We -- as we've said historically we look at a lot of things when they come up act on a very little of that and actually when I say act make an offer on very little of that and have a deal come to fruition even on less assets than that.
If you look at our pattern over the last several years we continue to be very happy with the fill-in acquisitions we've done.
But to give specifics on how we might look at a particular group of stores I just don't see any upside in going down that path.
Your next question comes from the line of Kelly Bania with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on private label now.
You mentioned some changes into how you're measuring the units and the dollars in that category.
Can you remind us or let us know what categories are now in there? And then I guess related to that how do you think about the Simple Truth line and shelf space there? I guess what I'm wondering is there opportunity to add more? It sounds like it still continues to go very well.
Yes.
If you look at the private label share that I outlined it includes all the departments except for fuel and pharmacy so it would include produce meat seafood drug/GM plus the grocery categories that we've always done in the past.
So it's the complete store excluding pharmacy and fuel.
Those things we thought would be a little complicated because we're not -- the generic drugs do you put it as private label or not and then obviously fuel we sell all our fuel unbranded.
So that's what's included in the market share and the unit share that I talked about.
I'm going to broaden your question a little bit in terms of if you look at shelf space the model that we use to determine whether an item gets on the shelf is exactly the same for our corporate brands as it is for national brands because we don't want -- we want to make sure from a customer standpoint the same dynamic is driving the location on a shelf and the item itself whether it even gets on the shelf.
The accountability for that has to be the same for our corporate brands just like a national brand.
In terms of Simple Truth it's been obviously a huge home run.
It's connected really well with our customers.
Because of that it -- the brand itself is earning more shelf space and we continue to find new items that will fit nicely into that Free From 101 different ingredients and Simple Truth Organic.
So it's working really well but it's earning its way there because of the connection with our customer.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then if I could just follow up with one more question on gas.
It looks like your gas margin came in a little bit lower for the quarter year-over-year and I'm just wondering if you can remind us how you're planning that segment for the year in terms of profitability.
And then just remind us you mentioned that half of your stores roughly half your stores have the gas offering.
Is there much trend -- difference in trend in traffic or IDs right now particularly with gas prices a little bit lower right now year-over-year? Mike you want to address that? Well when you look at fuel any one quarter can be somewhat volatile on fuel margins in retails which is why we talked about that.
Relative to what we saw in the first quarter compared to our expectations for the year I would say the first quarter wasn't that far out of the ballpark when you look at the comparisons of the numbers that we talked about at the supermarkets.
They weren't wildly different and it's clearly something that as I said we expect fuel to be a contributor to the overall growth of the company.
Fuel earned a little bit less in the first quarter than it earned last year in the first quarter but we experience that from time to time and my guess is there'll be a period of time this year where it earns more from year-to-year.
Relative to the -- why we put them at the fuels -- at our supermarkets essentially it's just one more thing that we can solve a convenience for and offer a value to the customer where when they're already at our store and they come to -- our most loyal customers come to our stores 2 3 or 4 times a week and they have the availability of fuel there along with the fuel rewards it's an incremental reason for them to want to come to Kroger versus a competitor.
And it's clearly part of the overall value proposition our customers see.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason DeRise with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if there's background noise here.
I'm on the road and once I ask it I'll mute.
Could you quantify the gross margin impact from the pharmacy? Could you also talk about the impact on gross margins from ending the double couponing in many of your banners? And then actually the follow-up to the last question if you could actually quantify the difference in same-store sales for your stores with and without fuel stations? In terms of the gross margin effect from pharmacy I won't break it out separately.
It was a meaningful number but I won't break it out separately.
On double coupons we invested the monies that were saved from double coupons into lower everyday pricing.
So if you look in total it actually had no effect on gross margin.
Because what we found was there wasn't very many customers actually engaged with double coupons and we felt like it was better to give lower prices to all customers so all customers could get the benefit of that.
So it really didn't affect much.
And then identical sales with and without fuel locations that obviously for competitive reasons we have not shared and wouldn't think it's appropriate to share at this point either.
Research Division</strong> On the gross margin for the pharmacy the impact if I put out a number will you say if that makes sense or not? Kind of in the 20- to 30-basis-point range as a positive in that result? I won't.
I don't know whether Dave or Mike if there's any insights that you can help -- that you would think Jason could find helpful.
No I don't think there's anything else to add other than I don't think you would find the quarter and the variations and stuff to be unusual.
The only thing that was unusual here is and you can see with the 15-basis-point investment in our gross margin that that's a little smaller than where we ran in any of the quarters last year.
And we've just identified that the reason it was as moderate as it was was in large part because it was helped from the pharmacy.
Now we knew that going in and had that expectation.
So it was part of a planned program but that's about as far as I think we're going to be able to go.
Your next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could provide a little bit more color around how we should think about your long-term debt market needs for the duration of this year.
We appreciate the commentary around your shift to CP usage.
Should we expect that to continue or is there a potential need for you to come back into the long-term debt markets this year? At some point in time this year we will access the fixed income markets and term out some of the debt.
We just made the strategic decision early on in the year because we have plenty of capacity on our revolver.
Our exposure to floating rates over the last several years has actually been relatively modest.
So to try to adjust for that we've termed out in the short -- in the short run on work -- on our commercial -- well it's the commercial paper that we issued backstopped by our bank revolver.
The -- if you look at that trend since then the balance of that has come in some because this is really the point in time of the year where we generate a lot of cash flow.
And that also gave us the comfort to have it out there on the commercial paper markets.
When we think about issuing it at let's say between 40 and 45 basis points on a regular basis as compared even to historically low rates...
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Sorry can you hear us? We can now.
Somehow we lost the connection.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think you got cut off right after you talked about issuing on a regular basis at about 40 to 45 basis points.
Okay.
I appreciate you telling me how much of my wonderful answer I gave.
See if I can repeat it now.
So Cindy will look at the transcript to see how close the 2 of them compare.
But we've been very successful with being able to issue that debt as I said in the 40- to 45-basis-point range.
The fact of the matter is this part of the year is when we generate a lot of free cash flow.
So we felt taking a little bit of risk of terming that -- putting that out on a working capital line made sense.
We don't have historically a lot of floating rate exposure and it was really an attempt to gain a little bit more exposure to floating rates.
The amount of commercial paper we have outstanding has come in since then.
But as you may or may not have heard me say we do expect at some point this year to term out some of our longer-term debt needs.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any sense or could you give us any guidance on potential size or part of the curve that you might look at? I don't want to give too much insight to it.
You can look at our 10-Q or 10-K and you can see how many dollars we've had hedged to give you some insight to what we think we -- our expectations and needs may be.
But as far as the exact amount and what duration those may be we'll wait and see what the markets are like when we actually access the markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Tiffany Kanaga with Citi.
Can we get an update on how online retail and home delivery is going at King Soopers? And are there any thoughts around expanding it to other markets? As you know we've been experimenting with Denver for several years.
It continues to grow at a modest rate.
We're working on it as much in terms of understanding the economics and trying to get a model that actually is profitable.
So it's one of those things where you should see us continue to work on it to improve it.
We've actually changed our team -- our complete digital team in terms of bringing some high talent from the outside to help us accelerate our growth.
We feel very good about where we are headed.
And as you know from a digital standpoint it's broader than just what you sell online.
We also are very aggressive on making sure we use our strength and insights we already have on our digital strategy based on customer needs.
We're having huge growth in terms of the use of our website the use and download of our apps and we're also partnering with dunnhumby to improve those from a relevancy standpoint.
So we actually are looking at digital much broader than just what you sell online and we're making huge progress in terms of connecting with the customer digitally and partnering with dunnhumby to do that in a way that uses our strengths and insights.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Feldman of Telsey Advisory Group.
Wanted to ask sort of a bigger picture question.
Just with the recent launch of like AmazonFresh and there's more talk of delivery and e-commerce shopping for groceries and I was just wondering if you could provide us with kind of your latest updates and thoughts on I guess e-commerce strategies or digital strategies within the grocery business.
The -- I'll give a little bit -- just in terms of -- tied in and talked -- some of the comments I just made to Tiffany.
As you know we've had where we deliver in Denver for several years and -- a website where we sell through.
As I mentioned a couple of minutes ago we continue to work on how to get that to scale and profitability.
But we think it's important to look at it more than just what you sell on the web and how do you connect with a customer on an overall digital basis and making sure we use some of the strengths and insights we have.
We're having huge growth with people downloading our apps using our apps on almost a daily type basis.
And we partnered with dunnhumby in terms of making that relevant for each customer using each customer in terms of setting the prioritization.
We feel really good about where we're headed and it's something we continue to work on and we continue to get better and better at.
And selling is just one piece of that connection with the customer digitally.
Got you.
Got you.
I mean do you envision like a store pickup type of program? Or are you testing that anywhere? The -- we would be testing almost everything that you can imagine but I think at the end of the day there will be something that will be a combination of a lot of different pieces together.
And we actually think that that's one of the strengths that will play to us just because we have so many convenient stores located close to customers' houses that it'll be left up to customer in terms of how they want to engage with us.
Got it.
And then one last one and I apologize for repeating that question but with -- the Affordable Care Act and how are you guys thinking about that? What kind of impact do you think it might have on you guys and your business on the labor negotiations that you have? Just any thoughts and more color on that would be helpful.
Well it certainly affects in one way or another everything you do that touches health care.
So in all of our union negotiations whether it's at the trust fund level or in the negotiations themselves you have to make sure that the health care plans work their way to complying with and actually working together with what the Affordable Health Care Act requires.
So we've been going through that process in negotiations and it certainly adds some degree of tension in the negotiations.
But we have a good really solid working relationship with the locals that we work with and as you've seen the contracts get settled over the last really couple of years.
All of those have had some implications from the Affordable Health Care Act.
As to the company plan we have done the same thing within our own organization of making sure that we've worked through understanding those requirements and including them in our own plans.
In terms of costs sure we think they will go up a little.
We're not -- I don't think we've publicly quantified that and nor do we intend to today.
But I think it's all been -- so far been workable and we've been happy with the way things have worked out so far.
Rodney you want to add anything? No no.
Okay.
So you -- I mean I guess maybe deeper into the year we'll get a better sense of what you're thinking as far as -- I mean I guess I'm trying to understand like will there be any kind of an EPS impact.
Really it's more a 2014 thing.
And I know you don't want to quantify it today but just should we expect that maybe at the October meeting or...
Well what you should expect is that we took into account what we know about health care costs when we gave you the guidance in March and when we updated the guidance today for this year.
And we also have in mind and have a sense of what we see in health care trends when we gave you the long-term guidance of our earnings growth of the 8% to 11% plus a growing dividend.
So we're knowledgeable of that when we made those decisions.
So to that extent it's been included in what we've told you.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Jason DeRise.
Research Division</strong> I just thought that -- again sorry for the background noise but I thought the comment about the convenience stores as they fit into this omni-channel Kroger was really interesting.
And I wanted to get a sense of how far into the future do you think that would be a reality of the omni-channel Kroger using all the points in online and pickups.
I know in the past it's been said that Kroger is a slow Midwest-moving company but some of these other retailers are thinking about this more aggressively.
So if you can comment on that that would be great.
Well it's really -- I mean our strategy is really built around letting the customers decide digitally how they want to connect with us.
And we spent a ton of effort and energy making sure that we do an awful lot of research and testing things enough to understand the economics of what we're doing.
So it's really taking all the pieces and tying them together.
And when -- you should expect to see us when we find something that makes money we'll move very aggressively.
And until then you'll see us continuing to test to make sure we're involved and aware but we don't see a benefit of rolling something out that doesn't create value for our customers and our investors as well.
Research Division</strong> Hopefully we hear more about this during the Investor Day.
And I think that's our last question.
Given that we had disruption a couple of times on the call I thought it would be best to run a little longer and make sure we got all the questions in and we appreciate all of those.
We apologize for the 2 interruptions that we had.
And as I usually do before we end the call today I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates who are listening in today.
We encourage them to do that.
First I want to thank each of the 400 -- or 4 800 leaders around the country who joined us for the first-ever Kroger Leadership Summit in Louisville recently.
Because of you this event was a big success.
Taking the next steps in our Customer 1st journey together is important and we're inspired by the enthusiasm and the passion that you show for leading our associates and serving our customers.
We know you will continue to make a difference everyday for our customers and our communities.
Also this month we celebrate community service in a special way at Kroger.
Through widespread volunteer activities our associates help strengthen the communities where we live and work.
We're pleased to recognize in our Annual Report 29 associates across the company for their outstanding service as recipients of Kroger's 2012 Community Service Award.
These women and men give their time and talent to feed the homeless raise money to fight cancer and coach at-risk teens among many other causes and we are grateful for their commitment.
I want to personally thank all our associates from coast to coast who volunteer in so many ways.
Rodney and I are touched by the work you do.
You make a big difference for so many others in all the places around America that we call home.
That completes our call today.
We thank you all for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Kroger Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Derek.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our second quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We are hopeful that you can join us for our 2013 Investor Conference in New York on October 30.
We look forward to seeing many of you then.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's second quarter 2013 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I am very pleased with our strong second quarter results which puts us on target to deliver the identical supermarket sales and earnings per share growth we promised for the year.
Kroger's second quarter operating performance and financial results show that the common thread in our story is consistency.
We achieved our 39th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales maintained return on invested capital and expanded FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling 4-quarter basis.
Every supermarket division and every department had positive ID sales.
We controlled costs throughout the business.
As you know we announced a merger agreement with Harris Teeter a company we have admired for a long time which will expand Kroger's footprint into new exciting growth markets.
And customers continue to tell us our associates are improving their shopping experience.
As we've shown quarter after quarter our consistent execution of the Customer 1st Strategy deepens customer loyalty increases sales and creates sustainable shareholder value.
As you know the list that I've just covered was prepared in advance so that we could formally review the quarter that we just finished.
I'm not sure it does the quarter justice so let me depart from our normal script and describe our results this way.
We've just completed what is nearly 10 years of positive identical sales growth.
We have invested in price for each of those 10 years when compared to the year before.
At the same time we focused on lowering our costs.
We've actually lowered our costs now for over 8 consecutive years.
Last year in our investor meeting we raised the guidance for our long-term earnings performance expectations.
In fact for the past 2 years and our guidance suggests that this 2013 would be the third year we've been performing within this new higher earnings per share growth range already.
Plus don't forget the dividends.
Also last October we offered a number of other keys to our successful growth plans for future years.
Everything you're hearing today in our quarter suggests we're on the path to successfully achieve all of those goals that we set out for you last year in October.
Maybe even more important the progress we've achieved these past 10 years sets a wonderful foundation on which to build for an even brighter future.
And the most important part of all is that the team at Kroger is large broad-based with dedicated associates team Kroger who have collectively come together to achieve these results.
And it is that combination that I think is unmatched in the industry today.
The results achieved by our team team Kroger make me most proud.
I don't use words lightly this quarter especially when I say we are very proud of the quarter we have just delivered.
Now I'd like Rodney to cover some more details about the second quarter.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
As you know we regularly seek customer feedback on how well we are executing in each of the 4 key areas of our Customer 1st Strategy.
We continue to improve our performance in each area and our efforts are being noticed.
Customers are telling us that our associates continue to connect with them by showing them that our people are great our product selection and quality is improving we are making the shopping experience faster and easier and we continue to give our customers better value for their money.
Doing the 4 keys together is what separates us from our competitors competitors of both the past and the future because the hard part is doing all 4 and doing them reliably.
We are also more agile in balancing our investments in the 4 keys with the savings we realize and we are consistently improving the efficiency of those investments on a rolling 4-quarter basis.
Our lower gross profit rate today means customers are saving nearly $3 billion a year compared to when we started this journey.
I want to echo Dave's appreciation and also thank our associates for keeping their focus on our customers and delivering shareholder value.
We are very proud of reaching a merger agreement with Harris Teeter and we are especially pleased it has not diverted our associates' efforts to achieve a good quarter and continuing -- continue to driving the business.
One of the most important measures of our business is loyal household growth.
It lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
And our loyal customers on average spend about half of every $1 with Kroger which means we have tremendous opportunity to increase their spending across our family of stores.
During the second quarter we grew the number of loyal households.
Our loyal household count grew at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
Overall customers continue to visit our stores more frequently purchase fewer items per trip and buy more on a monthly basis.
Total units sold were up compared to last year.
We estimate the rate of product cost inflation at 1.6% excluding fuel and pharmacy.
As we've discussed throughout the year and in fact for the last several years consumer confidence continues to improve but at a slow and steady pace.
Factors that affect consumer confidence at any given time include fluctuating gas prices payroll taxes and government policy uncertainty along with the overall state of the economy.
We continue to monitor these factors closely.
Overall we would characterize the economy as continue to improve but fragile.
Kroger leveraged operating expenses in the second quarter as associates did a good job controlling costs and driving positive identical sales.
Our OG&amp;A costs plus rent and depreciation without fuel were down 17 basis points as a percent of sales.
On this basis and excluding one-time items as Dave mentioned before we've improved this metric for 8 consecutive years and our year-to-date results have set us up to achieve our ninth consecutive year.
Now I'd like to update you on our corporate brands offering which is one of our key differentiators for Kroger versus our competition.
Our focus is on new products which we are continually evolving as customer tastes change.
We have modeled our team to facilitate a culture of innovation.
This year alone we will have introduced more than 650 new items by the end of the year.
In the second quarter corporate brands represented approximately 24.5% of total units sold and sales dollars were 23.8% excluding fuel and pharmacy.
Finally an update on labor relations.
Our store associates ratified new labor agreements covering stores in Indianapolis Roanoke and Little Rock.
We have several contracts that have expired or will expire soon including contracts in Seattle Cincinnati and Dallas.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages; good quality affordable health care; and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates have a shared objective: growing Kroger's business and profitability which will in turn help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
In fact over the last 5 years we've added 33 000 jobs.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's second quarter financial results and our guidance for the year.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
Total sales increased 4.6% to $22.7 billion in the second quarter compared with $21.7 billion for the same period last year.
Total sales excluding fuel increased 3.9% in the second quarter over the same period last year.
Net earnings for the second quarter totaled $317 million or $0.60 per diluted share.
Net earnings for the second quarter of last year were $279 million or $0.51 per diluted share.
FIFO gross margin including fuel was 20.6 -- 20.46% of sales for the second quarter.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 11 basis points from the same period last year.
The company recorded a $13 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $35 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
This is consistent with our original expectations.
FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and the extra week in fiscal 2012 on a rolling 4 quarters basis increased 9 basis points.
Turning now to retail fuel operations.
We disclosed many items with and without fuel due to its effect on operating cost and gross profit rates but we view fuel as a core department that over time is expected to contribute to earnings per share growth.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the second quarter our supermarket centers -- our supermarket fuel center's rolling 4-quarter margin per gallon was approximately $0.14 compared to $0.136 a year ago excluding the 53rd week.
Total gallons sold showed solid growth.
On a rolling 52-week basis return on invested capital grew slightly to 13.49% compared to 13.44% during the same period last year.
As we increase capital it will be more difficult to grow ROIC in the near term.
However as these investments mature we expect them to be accretive to return on invested capital.
Our planned uses of cash remain unchanged: maintain our current investment grade debt rating repurchase shares pay dividends to shareholders and fund capital investments.
You will see on our balance sheet that our current portion of long-term debt has decreased because of our recent financings and our net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio has declined to 1.77.
We have not been repurchasing as many shares as we originally expected at the beginning of the year.
This is purely because of our work to prepare for the Harris Teeter merger.
This lower ratio gives us the flexibility to finance the Harris Teeter transaction and we are now well positioned to reestablish and maintain our targeted 2x to 2.2x net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio in line with our long-term financial strategy within 18 months after the Harris Teeter transaction closes.
In fact this puts us in a better position than we originally expected from a debt standpoint.
We are committed to executing our financial strategy including maintaining our current investment grade rating and repurchasing shares.
During the quarter Kroger repurchased 2.4 million common shares for a total investment of $90 million.
Kroger's strong financial position has allowed the company to return more than $920 million to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last 4 quarters.
Capital investment excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased property totaled $507 million for the quarter compared to $444 million for the same period last year.
Year-to-date we have spent $1.1 billion.
We continue to expect full year capital investments to be in the $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range.
Now I'll update our growth objectives for fiscal 2013.
We are maintaining our net earnings guidance to a range of $2.73 to $2.80 per diluted share for the year.
This is consistent with our long-term growth rate guidance of 8% to 11% based on fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per share of $2.52.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend that we expect to grow over time.
Keep in mind our long-term growth rate assumes no effect from year-over-year LIFO swings.
A higher LIFO charge in any given quarter or year will lower the growth and a lower LIFO charge will increase the growth.
As you look at our guidance for the year please note that we expect an EPS growth rate in the third quarter similar to what we reported today for the second quarter.
We still expect this year's fourth quarter to be behind the third -- fourth quarter of last year on a 12-week basis.
This is because we currently assume a $13 million LIFO charge in the fourth quarter compared to a $41 million credit in the fourth quarter of last year.
The bottom line of this is we think current estimates for the third quarter are a little low and for the fourth quarter they're a little high but by offsetting amounts.
This is why we continue to be comfortable with the $2.73 to $2.80 per share level for the year.
We are increasing our identical supermarket sales growth expectations excluding fuel to approximately 3% to 3.5% for fiscal 2013.
The original guidance was 2.5% to 3.5%.
And now I'll turn it back to Dave.
Thanks Mike.
I'm really proud of what we are accomplishing.
We're growing in such a consistent way that it may seem deceptively simple.
But the truth is that our hard work over the past 10 years since we began our Customer 1st journey has created a platform for sustainable growth.
We are improving our connection with customers and associates creating new jobs and strengthening job security and rewarding shareholders with consistent earnings per share and dividend growth.
Now we are happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of John Heinbockel Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So guys 2 things.
One when you look at the 50% share of loyal households when you talk to those customers and get a sense why they're not spending the other -- a larger piece with you what do you typically hear from them? And then secondly I know you want to -- you don't want to give too much detail here but where do you think there are particular opportunities where you're way under-indexing with those loyal customers in certain product categories? Well thanks John.
If you look at why they're not shopping with us it's kind of interesting.
When we talk to them they'll tell us they're actually giving us more business than they give us.
And it's really a mixture of 2 things: one things that they don't put on their Kroger list and they just for the last several years just put it on another retailer list; and the other part would be when they're out taking their kids to soccer practice or some other type of event they'll just stop by and pick up a few items somewhere else.
And most times people will pick up a few extra things.
The big opportunities the easiest way to answer it there are certain categories where we've significantly improved what we offer from a variety and a price standpoint that those customers don't realize that we've changed.
And it really is trying to make sure the customers realize the improvements that we've made would be the biggest opportunities that I could answer your question without giving a tremendous amount of detail.
Obviously there's a lot of detail behind that statement.
LLC Research Division</strong> But it's safe to say that the things that they might think of first in another retailer whether it be paper cleaning HBA I would think those are all areas where you probably under-indexed as opposed to food.
Correct? That would be correct.
Anything that's not food-related we would probably under-index on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly because I know you guys like to kind of peer around the corner a little bit what's the current take? Because I know you've been a little bit skeptical about the whole food e-commerce channel.
Do you think that will ultimately be maybe not 2 years from now but 5 or 10 years something people will -- it'll be more mainstream and something you want to start noodling around with? And if so do you still think it would be more store-level pickup a better option for the consumer ultimately than home delivery as you think about it? Well we continue to experiment with it as you know in Denver Colorado we have for the last several years.
We have a few customers that are very loyal to it but it's modestly growing and it has modestly grown for a long period of time.
We think over time it'll just be one part of the way a customer shops along with physical assets too.
So we don't think it's "in place of " we think it's "part of." And we're really focused on trying to deliver something along those lines.
One of the things -- we're looking forward to merging with Harris Teeter.
Harris Teeter has a pickup model in a lot of their stores.
We don't have too much -- we have a little bit of insight but it's very little at this point until we merge because obviously in some markets we're in the same markets together.
So you don't have the complete understanding of how successful it is but we want to make sure we understand that and what pieces of that make sense to use in other places.
And John I would add that we're thrilled in the meantime at the development of the whole digital world and how our customers are engaging with us.
Everything from the Kroger app to the online work we do to the downloading of digital coupons has all been very successful for us.
Yes.
It's kind of exciting but if you look at our digital app now it's one of the top 2% -- it's in the top 2% of downloads off of -- from Apple.
Your next question is from the line of Scott Mushkin Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I had a kind of housekeeping one to start off with.
I know you gave us the 4-quarter rolling on fuel.
Did you have it for just this quarter on fuel penny profit? It was higher than the rolling 4 quarters.
Go ahead and ask your second question and I'll get -- I don't have that exact number in front of me but we'll get it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then kind of along what John was asking but maybe asking it a little bit different way it's a more strategic question.
Kroger's probably been the biggest share gainer in the industry for a long time I think partly because you've just driven the price gaps down with Walmart and then also widened them with some of your conventional guise.
But you also did a huge amount on service and perishables and merchandising.
But I guess the question is going forward how do you envision share gains? Can you -- do you think you can keep up the same pace? And what's going to be the biggest mechanism to drive it? Well it's -- as I mentioned in my own comments we see this as a sustainable model that continues to build on itself.
And I think the most important fact that demonstrates that we believe this can continue for a very long time is the fact that roughly half of the business our best customers can give us they are giving someplace else.
And Rodney addressed that in his comments earlier.
I think that's the best evidence.
Now there's plenty of other evidence too.
Just the fact that we have 39 quarters in a row of positive identical sales illustrates that there's -- continues to be room to grow.
And so we think that the future is still bright and that we see very good opportunity to grow our market share ahead.
Hey Scott [indiscernible] in the quarter was $0.17 versus $0.164 last year.
So while higher the spread was about the same.
So the profit margin per gallon in the quarter was 6/10 higher and the rolling fourth quarter was 4/10 higher.
So the incremental was not that significantly different even though the absolute number was higher.
LLC</strong> I appreciate that.
And then my last question goes to kind of the current environment.
Are you seeing anything different out there as far as your current trends go? But also I wanted to talk about there has been a lot of talk of some changes to the food stamp program.
Some of those are just going to happen and then maybe there's going to be some further adjustments as we go forward into the fall.
So both current environment and then how you're thinking about the current environment vis-à-vis some of these changes that may roll through the food stamp program.
I'm not sure I followed the first part of your question about current trends.
You're just talking about generally in the economy? LLC</strong> Yes generally in the economy and your -- I guess your trends.
I mean are you seeing anything different out of the consumer that you've been -- that lifts your comps that you've produced this quarter? And then as we go forward how are you thinking of your business particularly on the sales line with the pending cuts? Well first as you saw we moved the lower end of our sales guidance up which should tell you that we are reasonably confident in what the second half of this year looks like.
Sales so far we have 3.5 weeks in this quarter.
And while that's hard to predict it's a whole quarter from that.
But they are slightly ahead of where we were for the second quarter.
So we're good -- we're comfortable with that picture.
Rodney described the economy.
The way we're thinking about it is it's still quite fragile but continues to improve and those signs of improvement are many.
So there's lots of categories and items and areas that you would say are more kind of discretionary items that people are buying more of today than they were before.
And the growth in areas like apparel and cosmetics and toys and greeting cards Starbucks sushi all of those areas natural food Boar's Head cheese prepared meals all of those are doing really well and growing at good pace.
Food stamps are still at a reasonably high level.
They did kind of plateau for a while.
And you could argue right now in the last few weeks anyway that there's been a slight softening but it's still at a very high level.
And so I wouldn't read too much into that.
Your question about food stamps is what happens if those get cut substantially.
And I know there's lots of conversations in the Congress on that topic.
We of course don't know how Congress comes out on that.
We don't know how the states will come out on that.
We do know that there's a reasonably high demand for food stamps.
But remember that food stamp customers also spend some of their own cash on food.
That's not their only source to pay for food with us.
And while we have a lot of households that use food stamps just the fact that we've seen some little softening in these last few weeks and yet the sales through the 3.5 weeks I've just mentioned is a little stronger than last quarter that's a good sign too.
That even in a case where food stamps might get a little softer we still think we can do quite well in sales.
Rodney do you want to add anything to that? No I mean it's something that we certainly look at and we work every day trying to make sure that we give all customers a better value for their money.
And if you look at our digital app and everything that we're doing we're trying to make sure that we continue to take costs out of the business so we can give the customers a better value for their money.
So hopefully the customer that's on food stamps would be able to take advantage of many of those opportunities as well.
Your next question is from the line of Deborah Weinswig Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So if you look back to the beginning of the year when you had a 2.5% to 3.5% projection and now raising the bottom end of that to 3% to 3.5% what have been the biggest differences in terms of -- whether it be consumer behavior but just in terms of increasing confidence et cetera? Actually the -- I think the answer is a silly answer but it's a 6 months passage of time that before we were looking at a whole 4 quarters trying to predict where it was going to be and now we've seen 2 of the quarters and we just have 6 months left in front of us to try to predict.
And I think we feel more confident of that.
But the factors are the same that I listed with Scott that helped get us to a confident level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- if you look at the general merchandise sales that you've seen so far could you just maybe give us some color in terms of what you've seen in the quarter? And will you also see pockets of opportunity as well? Well we certainly see pockets of opportunity.
But in the GM -- I listed several GM categories that I've noted have improved and GM on the whole has improved.
One of the points I made earlier was that all of our departments had positive identical sales and GM did have reasonably good improvement.
But it had been for a long time it had been more of a laggard.
So we're glad to see some improvements there.
You want to add anything Rodney? Well I was just going to say it was a little embarrassing but in terms of the opportunity I think we're really -- the Fred Meyer team is really having a tremendous amount of success working deeper with all their divisions across the company and picking up some good new items across the company.
We're having very good success on identifying the right items to add in our stores.
We're starting to reduce some of our marketplace stores with categories different than what we initially did and very pleased with the success there.
You could -- if you looked at it half empty you would have said "Well why didn't that happen 10 years ago?" The half full is "At least it's happening now." Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question obviously with all the work that you've done with dunnhumby et cetera and with the relationship that you have with the customer can you talk about how aggressive you are in terms of pushing mobile coupons what you've seen in terms of customer response and just what the opportunity lies ahead? Wait.
What? You said coupons but I couldn't quite Deborah hear what you said right before coupons.
Did you say mobile coupons? Research Division</strong> Just in terms of where are you right now in terms of pushing mobile coupons with your relationship that you've had with dunnhumby? And where are you in terms of working with the consumer? And what has been the customer response? Yes.
If you look at -- the usage of digital coupons is significantly higher than the percentage improvement in the download of our apps.
We're working with dunnhumby in terms of making sure those coupons are targeted for each customer.
And it's -- it's some are at the segment level some are at the individual customer level.
And those would be some of the things that we continually work with and trying to improve.
dunnhumby is putting a lot of resources on R&amp;D today to get better and better at that in terms of targeting overall.
And obviously we're partnering with them to make sure that we continue to improve that.
The percentage increases are so big that it really doesn't mean much because it's triple digits but it's huge triple-digit increases.
And Deborah just to illustrate a point one of my favorite things on our Kroger app when I go to my own list and I'm starting to make my shopping list and I want to download some coupons it used to be I would just get a long long laundry list of coupons that were available to download.
And now they're in the order of priority based on my actual shopping.
And that would be true for any of our loyal customers that would have enough of a pattern to give us that.
In that way I don't have to go through 100 coupons to find the 4 or 5 or 6 that I want.
And it's a terrific feature as an example.
So we keep making improvements.
About every 6 weeks or so we make improvements in the app which often is focused on the digital coupons and improving that experience.
And overall we communicate with about 9 million households on a regular basis and all 9 million have unique offers based on their behavior.
Your next question is from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mike I was hoping you could just provide a little bit of an update on your thoughts around through the timing of issuance related to Harris Teeter whether that's changed at all given the current market trends? And then as we think about what you could potentially issue across the curve you've previously talked about wanting some varied exposure and given that you just came with 10s and 30s should we expect more front-end issuance around that? Yes thanks.
Relative to the timing obviously their shareholder meeting's October 3 and then we'll still be waiting on final FTC approval after that.
So we'll gauge where we are in the FTC process post the shareholder meeting and try to time it relatively close to when the transaction would close so we don't have a lot of negative carry.
As we said back when we did the 10s and 30s a couple of months ago we had several calls during that time and we were very open about the fact that if you wanted 10s and 30s from Kroger you needed to be in this deal because the next issuance was going to be at the front end of the yield curve.
It does 2 things.
One it does what you said gives us exposure across the yield curve but it also gives us a better maturity smoothing so that we have some debt coming due every year so as we need to have the opportunity to pay off some debt to get our ratios at that 2x to 2.2x we can do that by actually having some debt maturing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just around your desire to maintain some floating rate exposure how should we think about that? Do you have a targeted percentage or amount that you look at? Don't necessarily have a set amount.
We currently today are extremely fixed.
We were floating for a lot of this year until we did the bond issuance.
In fact post that bond issuance you can see in our balance sheet we have cash invested which is some of that will go towards financing the Harris Teeter transaction.
But I would expect our exposure of floating rates would be either -- it will probably be some combination of commercial paper issuances plus potentially a floating rate note issuance as part of the financing for the Harris Teeter transaction.
Your next question is from the line of Karen Short Deutsche Bank.
I just -- I wanted to focus a little bit on inflation and deflation.
Looking back the last time when you saw a deflation it also happened to coincide with a pretty challenging economic and competitive environment.
And if I remember you were investing pretty heavily in price so selling gross margin was down pretty materially in that particular time frame.
I guess looking into 2014 commodity costs appear to be coming down quite a bit and it looks like there is a potential for deflation.
So I guess my first question is what's your outlook for inflation into next year? And then the second question would be how do you think about pushing the vendors kind of in the face of the potential for deflation and input costs because I'm assuming you don't really want to be in a deflationary environment in the center stores? I guess your question on don't want to be in an inflationary environment I can't do anything to change that so our job is to make sure we can operate in whatever the environment gives us.
At this point I think there'll still be some slight inflation next year from everything we can see.
Don't forget while there are some -- certainly some commodities that are down things like meat and some of the other categories continue to have some pressures out there relative to herd size and things like that.
Now the chicken complex may come in as the corn crop gets harvested.
And if it's as strong as it sounds like that could help.
But when you look at the grocery category which is in my mind the one that's most important we've actually had more inflation in the first half of this year than we had in the back half of last year.
On the back half of last year grocery inflation was under 1%.
It was still inflationary but slightly.
And so far this year it's north of 1% in the grocery category in both the first and second quarter.
So I don't think -- I'm not really overly concerned about actual deflation.
There could be less inflation but that's still prices going up.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then I guess the second question I had was just ROIC.
Obviously now that your compensation is tied to ROIC you commented that ROIC might take a hit near term.
And I guess the first question is why because Harris Teeter's ROIC was fairly respectable.
But maybe a little color there just on that comment.
Yes I don't know that the comment said that it was going to take a hit.
I said that what we're trying to describe is the fact that -- of the metrics we gave last October it's going to be the one that takes the longest to have upward momentum on because we are increasing CapEx as we do it.
And keep in mind all the numbers we gave today and our expectations and our predictions and thoughts about the rest of the year are exclusive of Harris Teeter.
Once that transaction closes we'll obviously update our expectations as a combined company.
But today we just can't do that.
Your next question is from the line of Chuck Cerankosky Northcoast Research.
Taking a look at your increased comps guidance which is great to see in a generally tamer inflation outlook for the second half of the year than maybe we were talking about on the last call are you suggesting better volume growth? Certainly -- Chuck this is Rodney.
Certainly based on what we see today and Dave mentioned earlier what we're seeing the last 3 weeks or so and a little bit of the last part of the second quarter we would feel a little bit better volume growth in terms of what our expectations are.
What implications does that have for mix? Well as Dave mentioned the -- we're having extremely good growth in the perishable departments in those areas of the store and grocery is improving a little bit.
So when you look at mix we would expect it to probably be more driven by the center of the store than the perishables just because of the way we're starting out.
So that would suggest customers doing more of their shopping at your stores? Well as I mentioned in the prepared comments we're seeing good growth in loyal households.
And that growth as -- and we have total growth as well.
So we would believe we're continuing to pick up a meaningful market share.
And it's both in terms of new customers and loyal shoppers spending more with us.
We've seen some of the marketplace stores in our travels including some with the apparel in them.
Can you comment on that group of stores? Well the marketplace is one of our many formats in terms of driving our growth.
What we're finding is the Fred Meyer folks are helping us identify the right apparel items to have in.
And customers are -- it's one more reason to come to one of our stores.
Obviously it's not typically on your Kroger list.
But once you're in the store you can get a great value for some reasonably trendy apparel at a reasonable price.
So so far we're pleased.
And we continue to add it in our new marketplace stores and as we remodel our marketplace stores.
Well the one in -- maybe it's even open will the new marketplace in Hilton Head have apparel? That one I don't know.
Mike actually probably knows that one better than me.
You're right it gives me grief that I'm the construction manager for that project.
It's actually not a marketplace store.
It's about a 90 000-square-foot supermarket.
So it will be a big supermarket kind of like when you think -- if you've been to our Anderson store here in Cincinnati or the Fort Mitchell store it'll be more along those lines than a marketplace store.
The site just wouldn't accommodate a 123 000-square foot footprint.
Your next question is from the line of Todd Duvick Wells Fargo Securities.
Just filling in for Todd here.
Most of our questions were answered.
But just kind of wanted to circle back financial policy and just more of a confirming question I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
So ultimately I guess everything kind of flushes through over the next couple of years you'd like to be at 2x to 2.2x on a net debt-to-EBITDA basis is that correct? That's always been our long-term target.
We typically over the past several quarters have been right around 2x.
We were just under 2x at the second quarter.
And just in anticipation of the Harris Teeter transaction we were a little conservative from July 8 when we announced that until now on the use of cash to try to pre-lower that ratio a bit if you will.
We're actually a little bit ahead of where we are.
And we feel comfortable we're going to be able to execute on all prongs of our financial strategy going forward including the 2x to 2.2x.
We think that's a good proxy for what it takes to maintain a BBB flat credit rating.
Got you.
And markets are hard to gauge a couple of months out and I know you have a meeting coming up.
But can you talk to where that ratio would be maybe in '14 in terms of kind of a max or any type of range how you think...
Yes I wouldn't -- I'm not going to speculate on where it will be immediately post the transaction.
But if you assume a $2.4 billion $2.5 billion acquisition price and all that debt goes on day 1 it's going to take a full year to add in any Harris Teeter EBITDA.
Though the ratio is going to look pretty high on day 1 but by the end of year 1 and you have all of that EBITDA if you just assume the EBITDA they've been generating you'll probably get pretty close to a range of what we would expect by the end of the first full year post the transaction.
Your next question is from the line of Stephen Grambling Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know you don't like to give a quarter-by-quarter guidance but since you did make some references there is there anything in the fourth quarter that we should be thinking about? It looks like even as you strip out some of the timing shifts it looks like it embeds a little bit of a change in trend.
I'm not sure what you mean by change in trend.
I mean if you look at purely the swing in LIFO it's a $0.09 or $0.10 per share effect just the swing of what last year's LIFO credit was and what this year's was or what this year's is projected to be.
So it's a pretty dramatic shift between -- just on that line between the 2 years.
If you were to neutralize that I don't think you would -- I think you would find a quarter that's within our guidance range for the year.
We've -- the first couple of quarters have benefited from the opposite of that and that we had a higher LIFO charge last year and a higher LIFO charge -- and a lower LIFO charge this year.
If you were to neutralize the first and second quarter LIFO charges our results actually were nicely at the high end of the range not a 17% quarter like the headline reads it's probably an 11% or 12% quarter growth with LIFO neutralized.
And that's why for the year I mean if you want to say it's a change in trend for the fourth quarter mathematically that's how it would work.
But that's just because of the LIFO shift.
One of the quarters has to be low when we're at 17% the first 2 quarters in our guidance is 8% to 11% and it's purely that LIFO in the fourth quarter.
It's not a change in the base business.
Obviously with raising the low end of our ID sales expectations it's not any expectation that the business won't be strong in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one quick follow-up on I believe it was Chuck's question.
Just fresh produce has been highlighted as -- you highlighted it last year as a big opportunity at the conference.
And we've also heard some re-emphasis from Walmart the high-growth specialty players.
Can you just highlight some of the things that you're doing that have been driving the growth there? And then also more a long term as you think about the category how it might be changing either in terms of pricing the relevance et cetera? Well if you look -- as you know we continue to add organic produce.
We continue to work on shortening our supply chain.
Our produce team has done a great job on connecting with local suppliers which significantly increased the amount of local produce that we have and we're doing a better job telling the customers about it.
So it's really all those things together.
From a trend we would expect that to continue into the future.
And on produce we think we're going to be very strong and successful in produce but we think probably some of the other companies you talked about I think there's enough growth that all of us will be successful.
Your next question is from the line of Jason DeRise UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Jason DeRise.
A couple of questions.
I wanted to potentially get a little bit more color on the FIFO gross margin x fuel down 11 basis points if you can share a bit of the drivers within that.
And if that is indicative of the range that you think can be maintained as part of the 8% to 11% growth model long term as opposed to what has been happening in the past now that we've got a couple of quarters in there.
And then I just wanted to follow up on the guidance change for sales without EPS.
Is it just that the share count and interest view for the year has changed since the beginning of the year when -- or since last quarter when that guidance was updated? On the gross margin as Rodney alluded to in his prepared comments one of the things we've been focusing on on a rolling 4-quarters basis is the balance between the leverage of our ID sales actual cost savings that we achieved and when and how we invest those savings that typically results in lower gross profit.
But some of those investments actually wind up increasing OG&amp;A efforts on people via training or something like that so not everything affects the gross profit.
So that gross margin is really dictated on our opportunity to save dollars elsewhere in the organization.
The other thing that has helped that and until we cycle some of the bigger ones clearly pharmacy gross profit rates are up because generic gross profit rates are higher than non-generic gross profit rates.
And that's one of the tailwinds that's in that number which ultimately will dissipate.
I don't know if that gets to your FIFO gross margin question.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
By any chance would you want to quantify this quarter what the pharmacy benefit was? No.
Research Division</strong> I don't think so.
I figured that out.
That was a good -- it was a good driver.
And what was your second question? Research Division</strong> Just about the reconciling that the sales guidance has come up but EPS is still the same.
We raised our guidance EPS guidance in the first quarter to reflect the results we had in the first quarter.
And we continue to post sales essentially just above the midpoint of our current estimate.
And anytime you give a range a company is continually striving to at their worst be in the middle of the range and hopefully towards the high end of the range.
So it's probably safe to assume that we weren't expecting -- we really didn't want 2.5% sales for the rest of the year to drive the EPS we were giving and really needed sales closer to where we are.
And as Dave said with 7 periods now and the books at 3.3% for the year to have wound up at 2.5% IDs that would've inferred a 1.6% ID number in the back half of the year.
We just don't see that in the books.
We see a number much closer to where we -- we don't see that in the future.
Rodney is touching wood by the way.
We -- that's our expectation.
And I would say it's in the -- both of those are within the range of what we expected when we began the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the part of the question that maybe I didn't hear on the first part is it that the share count and the interest outlook is different than when that guidance was issued at the end of Q1? And I guess the Harris Teeter deal is that sort of the reconciliation there? The share count and the interest have -- the share count a little bit of effect but not a dramatic amount of effect on the full year.
Interest really not because for the period of time we were drawn on commercial paper until we termed that out a couple of months ago we actually were lower on interest during that period of time than we expected.
So for the year we'll probably be a little better on interest than the original expectation.
And that will actually help offset some of the lower share repurchases that we're expecting for the year.
And I'll reiterate one more time none of our guidance has any assumptions relative to the effect of Harris Teeter.
When that transaction happens we'll have to reset the bar on what our expectations are.
But there's nothing in there relative to Harris Teeter.
And one other thing I'll remind you about on those is our guidance for the year would also exclude any transition or transaction expenses related to that.
So we'll call those out separately as they occur.
We had a little bit in the third -- in the second quarter but nothing that changed the ultimate answer.
And again we still have the expectation that Harris Teeter will be accretive in the first full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can squeeze one more in.
With the new stores that you're opening up and I guess some of the remodels that you're doing how is that progressing at the early stage? Are the stores generating the revenues that you expect? We're very happy with the early results in the stores we're opening.
It's one of the reasons we're keeping our CapEx expectations and spend where we plan to be.
And as we said last October we expect to increase that a couple of hundred million a year.
And I would expect at this point in time that 2014 would be a couple of hundred million higher than what we have out there as expectations for this year again excluding anything relative to Harris Teeter.
Your next question will be from the line of Andrew Wolf BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I also want to follow up on the gross margin.
This year's rate has improved sequentially quite a lot.
And you guys signaled at your last investor conference that I think the rate of price investments Kroger needed was going to abate so you'd need less going forward.
So I just wanted to ask you straightforwardly is that the major driver of the improvement in the gross margin rate less contraction to be precise this year so far? I know you've called out other things like generic drugs but is that one factor if not the major one one of the major ones? And what does that imply about the price environment in general? Well if you look I mean we obviously have an overall price strategy in terms of our relative price value versus our competition.
And we've had that for several years.
And we continue to be very aggressively promotionally in terms of giving customers a good value on promotion.
I wouldn't overread what this year's number is versus the long-term trend.
We're really focused on making sure that we maintain our relative price position.
We continue to improve our reputation with our customers.
And we balance that with as we take costs out of the business that we have a slightly improving operating margin.
So it's really all 3 of those together.
One of the things that's been helpful this year is the pharmacy that Mike mentioned.
We're also having good success on reducing some cost of goods on some things that we're doing as well.
So that's helping it.
The other thing we probably are investing a little bit more in service this year than a normal typical year.
And that's something that each year you would balance based on what we see the opportunities in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just wanted to switch gears to labor negotiations.
There's been some press reports and I think some Kroger officials have commented as well that with the coming changes in health care in the system the Affordable Health Care Act there have been some changes to contract terms.
Does Kroger view that these changes to be Affordable Health Care coming from the Affordable Health Care Act as something Kroger can use either to -- well to reach its goal which you've stated to have the competitive cost structures particularly when you think about the industry having one of the most generous health care benefits in corporate America? Thanks Andy for the question.
The law really isn't driving -- the changes that you would have read about the law isn't what's causing those changes.
And as you've known Kroger for a long time we want to make sure our associates and our family have access to affordable health care coverage.
And we still are spending about $1.5 billion a year on health care.
We would expect that cost to continue to increase even with the changes that you've heard us talk about.
Every contract is separate.
Every situation is separate.
What we find in some cases our health care plan is so much better -- a lot of spouses will be working.
Our health care plan is so much better than a lot of the spouses would have.
Spouses are coming to our plan on an increasing rate.
And what we're trying to do is to set up where spouses that have coverage they go to where they have coverage to in some cases to take it for that coverage.
So overall we're looking at each contract individually and it's the solution that works fast for that market for that situation.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up I think in Dave's preamble he talked about how growth has -- it sounded like it made a more amicable relationship with the unions.
So am I understanding that correctly that maybe the unions are more willing -- and I know each one is a separate entity but in general more willing to make certain helpful changes? Because I know Kroger is expanding and adding opportunity for more membership for example.
I guess I would never say that the union has been more helpful.
I certainly believe the unions -- we continue to have a partnership to try to work together to figure out what's best for our associates.
So I wouldn't say that -- they're not becoming suddenly easy to negotiate with.
They're still looking out for their members.
But when you look at it overall one of the things that we're able to bring to the table is a growing company that improves job security.
We're creating jobs that have -- and obviously when you're a department head you get paid more money than when you're not a department head.
And it's those types of opportunities that we're able to provide for our associates.
So it's really all those things together that will create a growing company improves job security and improves what somebody makes on an individual basis because they're getting promoted.
Final question will be from the line of Edward Kelly Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had really just a couple of follow-ups I guess.
Mike a question on generics.
The pharmacy margin in general and the contribution from generics I know you don't want to give the amount.
But sequentially versus last quarter how did the contribution compare? Was it similar less? A little less.
Research Division</strong> A little less.
Okay.
And could you also give us an update on shrink? I know shrink was something last year that was a little bit of a headwind.
I know you guys have been making some progress.
Where do you stand on shrink today in terms of your progress and how you feel about that? Rodney you want to comment on that? Yes.
Shrink is one of those where -- I don't know that I would ever say I'm ever pleased.
We're certainly not satisfied but we always work -- we're very careful when we are trying to improve our shrink result because it's one of the easiest ways to affect the customer's experience.
So we don't want to have low shrink just for the sake of low shrink.
We're not as far along as we'd like to be.
We're making some progress in some of the areas of the business but it's one of those things where it's a constant balancing between the pieces.
So overall the answer to your question is we're making progress in some areas.
We're still not where we want to be but we're making sure we do it on a balanced basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question for you.
I know you guys recently announced the Harris Teeter deal.
What's the M&amp;A environment generally look like today? Are you seeing more opportunity less opportunity? Just curious as to your general view on what's available.
Ed I'll give you a general comment and Mike may want to add more specifics if he wants.
But I think we see the environment pretty much like we've been seeing it that there's lots of things we look at regularly but very few of them actually fit things that we think are worth doing and worth spending the money on and investing our time.
And obviously we've described Harris Teeter as one of those companies to merge with them.
We've admired them for a long time and it's a kind of asset that really helps us grow into a new market.
Do you want to add anything else to the environment? No.
Okay.
So we're going to wrap up and I had just a couple of comments...
I just wanted -- Paul Heldman was nice enough to point to me in my prepared remarks on I said corporate brand units were up market share was 24.5%.
It's actually 25.4%.
I transposed.
I just wanted to correct that before we got off the call.
Sorry Dave.
Well that's good for the record to get that in there.
Thank you.
So before we end the call though as we often do I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates who we encourage to listen in on this call.
October is Breast Cancer Awareness month across our company.
Associates in the offices and the supermarkets and convenience stores and our plants distribution centers participate in many activities to honor and pay tribute to those who are fighting this disease.
Including many local Susan G.
Komen Race for the Cure and Making Strides Against Breast Cancer events.
I'm always moved by the outpouring of support and generosity that I see from our associates at events like these.
In the next few weeks we'll also begin our annual Giving Hope A Hand campaign to support the fight against breast cancer in our stores.
This year we'll be featuring associates like Lori [ph] an apparel manager at one of our Fred Meyer stores in Oregon who says "Losing this battle is never an option." Lori and 20 other courageous women will share their stories of hope and courage on specially marked packages of our corporate brands and national brand products.
These items will be sold exclusively in our stores from September 22 through October 5.
And I encourage you to read our coworkers' inspiring stories at sharingcourage.com.
Well that completes our call today.
We want to thank everyone for joining us.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2013 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Mike Schlotman Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good morning.
Thanks for joining us today.
Cindy can't join us today so I'm going to do the introductory comments.
Her daughter Grace is actually having an emergency appendectomy as we speak and I haven't violated any HIPAA rules by disclosing that.
Cindy was okay with me telling you why she couldn't be here.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our third quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thanks again to those of you who are able to join us for our 2000 (sic) Investor Conference in New York on October 30.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Dillon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's third quarter 2013 results are Rodney McMullen Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer and soon-to-be CEO; and as you've already heard Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us for the call today is Mike Ellis Kroger's Senior Vice President and soon-to-be President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our third quarter results were quite strong and helped ensure that 2013 will be another great year.
Team Kroger continues to fuel our accelerated growth by performing with consistency and discipline.
The resiliency of our Customer 1st Strategy to deliver for shareholders and customers was on full display during the quarter even as our internal research shows that customers remain uncertain about the economy.
We expanded rolling 4-quarter FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and adjustment items.
We increased return on invested capital while increasing capital investment and we lowered operating costs as a percent of sales.
And once again this quarter our associates' disciplined performance resulted in positive identical sales in every operating division and every store department.
Overall our quarterly results show once again that Kroger is uniquely positioned to grow and win in the U.S.
food retail industry.
I am most proud however of another distinctive achievement team Kroger's 40th consecutive quarter of positive identical sales.
It is not simply the scorecard that makes this meaningful although 10 full years without skipping a beat is extraordinary.
What makes 40 consecutive quarters of positive identical sales so remarkable is the underlying importance of the metric.
For retailers identical sales are the strongest indication of whether or not we are connecting with our customers over time.
Every one of our 343 000 associates deserves recognition for their individual work to achieve this unprecedented milestone.
Congratulations.
I know our entire team is hard at work to achieve the 41st.
We are pleased with where our business is trending pleased with the growth of our loyal households and pleased with our business during the Halloween and important Thanksgiving holiday all of which give us confidence that we will achieve our full year earnings per share and identical supermarket sales guidance.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect our earnings per share growth rate to be 8% to 11% excluding the effect of the Harris Teeter merger and tax benefits which is consistent with our long-term growth objective.
I'll now hand off to Rodney for more details on the third quarter performance and consumer sentiment.
Rodney? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Our associates did a terrific job executing our Customer 1st Strategy in the third quarter.
We improved our connection with customers especially our most loyal shoppers and are receiving more credit from our customers because of our strong progress to improve our fresh products and customer service.
As you know these areas are important aspects of our 4 keys.
Before we discuss our loyal customer growth for the quarter I want to highlight that Kroger has consistently grown loyal households for the last -- the past 10 years.
We estimate that since 2003 loyal households have increased by an outstanding 83%.
That means today compared to a decade ago 83% more households are shopping with greater print [ph] purchasing more items from our stores.
Focusing on our most loyal customers has been a real key to reaching 40 consecutive quarters of positive identical sales.
In the third quarter we continued to grow the number of loyal households and our loyal household count grew at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
We have a tremendous opportunity to increase their spending across our family of stores because on average we only capture $0.50 of every $1 loyal customer spend on products we sell.
In the third quarter loyal customers drove total sales gains in line with our strategy.
Our strong identical sales in the quarter were largely driven by the increases in total and loyal households.
Total units in the quarter were up compared to last year although items per trip continues to trend down as it has for the last couple of years.
We believe this is a reflection of changes in shopping patterns that began with the economic downturn and have now become the norm.
We estimate the rate of product cost inflation at 1.5% excluding fuel and pharmacy.
As Dave mentioned earlier we had positive identical sales in every department.
These sales were exceptionally strong in produce and natural foods.
These gains confirm that our Customer 1st investments in our products are working as intended and creating sustainable competitive advantages for Kroger.
We continue to invest to meet our customers' health and wellness needs and this is evident in our pharmacy and the Little Clinic businesses.
We are very pleased with the strong gains we've made when our pharmacy team seized the opportunity created by the dispute between Walgreens and Express Scripts and even more pleased with the scripts that we've retained.
By nearly every measure our pharmacy team took advantage of that opportunity and ran with it.
The Little Clinic likewise continues to see strong growth.
Many of our customers are feeling the stress of an economy that is only slowly improving and they are not immune to the episodic ups and downs that create uncertainty.
There are a number of factors impacting an already fragile consumer sentiment including government gridlock various concerns about health care and it remains to be seen how the reduction in SNAP benefits will impact the entire U.S.
retail industry.
We continue to see high variability in sales comparisons between days and weeks.
What little economic recovery there is remains bifurcated.
For some of our customers the economy is markedly improved.
But for others there are no -- there has been no noticeable improvement at all.
While these factors are creating more uncertainty than we normally have we have never been more confident in our business model and we continue to gain market share.
This is because of the remarkable consistency of our Customer 1st Strategy.
No matter the environment our customers and shareholders can depend on Kroger to deliver value.
Our ability to make constant adjustments based on what we see in the environment and what our customers are facing has defined Kroger in our customer's eyes as a place they can rely on in good times and in tough times.
We continue to personalize and merchandise in ways that solve for the needs of all of our customers.
For the customer under stress we are offering low entry price point on key items and special low prices on seasonal items especially in corporate brands.
And for all our customers are -- and all our customers are benefiting from better service and more value through lower prices on organic and natural foods including Simple Truth as well as our digital promotions fuel rewards and health and wellness offerings.
Corporate brands continued to gain market share during the third quarter as well with corporate brands representing approximately 26.1% of total units sold and sales dollars were 24.1% excluding fuel and pharmacy.
Kroger leveraged operating expenses in the third quarter as associates did a good job controlling costs and driving positive identical sales.
Our OG&amp;A costs are -- costs plus rent and depreciation without fuel and the adjustment items for 2012 and '13 decreased 27 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
We are on track to deliver our ninth consecutive year of leveraging operating costs.
Before I turn it over to Mike I want to provide a brief update on labor relations.
Our store associate ratified new labor agreements covering stores in Little Rock Dallas and Seattle.
We are currently negotiating our contract in Cincinnati which is on extension until March 1.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitability which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities plus enhance job security for all associates.
In fact over the last 5 years we have added 33 000 jobs.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's third quarter financial results and our guidance for the year.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and once again good morning everyone.
Total sales increased 3.2% to $22.5 billion in the quarter compared to $21.8 billion for the same period last year.
We know there are estimates out there that are higher than our total sales but it's important to keep in mind that the retail price per gallon of fuel was down 8% for the quarter.
This is why we look at sales excluding fuel which increased 4.7% in the third quarter over the same period last year.
Net earnings for the third quarter totaled $299 million or $0.57 per diluted share.
Both the current and prior year quarters benefited from certain adjustments.
This year's third quarter includes a net $0.04 per diluted share benefit that is comprised of $0.05 from certain tax items partially offset by expenses related to Kroger's pending merger with Harris Teeter.
Last year's third quarter included a $0.14 per share benefit from a settlement with Visa and MasterCard and from a reduction in the company's obligation to fund the UFCW consolidated pension fund created in January of 2012.
Excluding these adjustments earnings per share would have been $0.53 per diluted share in the third quarter this year and $0.46 per diluted share in the third quarter last year.
FIFO gross margin including fuel was 20.57% of sales in the third quarter.
Excluding retail fuel operations FIFO gross margin decreased 25 basis points from the same period last year.
The company recorded a $13 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $15 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
The company continues to estimate its full year LIFO charge at $55 million.
FIFO operating profit margin excluding fuel the 53rd week last year and the adjustment items in fiscal 2012 and 2013 on a rolling 4-quarters basis increased 11 basis points.
On this basis and for the full year we can continue to expect our non-fuel FIFO operating margin to expand slightly.
Turning now to retail fuel operations.
We disclosed many items with and without fuel due to its effect on operating cost and gross rates but we view fuel as a core department that is expected to contribute to earnings per share growth.
About 1/2 of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the third quarter our supermarket fuel centers' rolling 4-quarter margin per gallon was approximately $0.141 compared to $0.133 a year ago.
Total gallons sold showed solid growth.
We increased our return on invested capital on a rolling 4-quarter 52-week basis recording a 13.42% return on invested capital this year compared to 13.34% during the same period last year.
As we increase capital it will be more difficult to grow ROIC in the near term.
However as these investments mature we expect them to be accretive to ROIC.
Our planned uses of cash remain unchanged: maintain our current investment grade debt rating; repurchase shares; have a growing dividend; and fund increasing capital investments.
Net total debt was $8.2 billion a decrease of $525 million from a year ago.
On a rolling 4-quarter 52-week basis Kroger's net total-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio was 1.86 compared to 2.08 during the same period last year.
During the quarter Kroger repurchased 3.6 million common shares for a total investment of $148 million.
Over the last 4 quarters Kroger has returned more than $752 million to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends as a result of our strong financial position.
Capital investment excluding purchases of leased property totaled $641 million for the third quarter compared to $474 million for the same period last year.
Year-to-date we have spent $1.8 billion.
We expect full year capital investments to be approximately $2.4 billion.
As you know we plan to continue increasing capital investment over time.
This will take the form of adding square footage in markets where we believe our business model is already resonating with customers.
With a better presence we can grow our market share and ROIC.
This fill-in strategy is a continuation of efforts that have been underway for some time and include a new focus on markets such as Dallas Texas and the state of Michigan.
Stores we have opened in the earlier fill-in markets are producing results in line with our expectations giving us the confidence to add new fill-in markets.
Additionally we will continue to narrow our focus on markets where we do not currently operate with the intention of selecting one to enter organically.
Next I would like to update you on our pending merger with Harris Teeter.
To say we are excited about the prospects of our companies joining together would be an understatement.
We know this is going to be an outstanding combination that will benefit our customers associates and shareholders.
The merger is proceeding as planned.
Both Kroger and Harris Teeter are having productive conversations with the FTC staff.
We believe we are still on track to close the transaction before the end of Kroger's fiscal 2013.
Now I'll update you on our guidance for the remainder of the fiscal year.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 Kroger expects identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 3% to 3.5%.
Excluding certain tax items and expenses related to our pending merger with Harris Teeter and assuming a LIFO charge consistent with our current estimate we expect EPS to be up -- for the year to be up in the range of $2.73 to $2.80.
That's our current range.
This is consistent with our long-term growth rate guidance of 8% to 11% based on our fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per share of $2.52 and shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend that we expect to grow over time.
While these are fairly large ranges with one quarter to go several factors including the reduced SNAP benefits a shorter holiday selling season and slow economic recovery make it a little more difficult to precisely predict the fourth quarter.
Regardless of where we finish in the range it will be a very strong year demonstrating the strength of our Customer 1st Strategy.
I want to echo Dave and Rodney's thanks to all of our associates for your hard work to deliver what will turn out to be a very good year.
We do realize such a wide range of potential earnings per share results this late in the year can be somewhat confusing.
It could also raise questions about where our trends are going into next year.
We remain very confident in our ability to deliver 2014 results in line with our 8% to 11% earnings per share growth targets.
This is why Dave discussed 2014 expectations.
Normally we would not talk about this until our year end release in March but felt it was important to be clear about the underlying confidence we have in our team and the future.
Now I'll turn it back to Dave.
Thank you Mike.
As you can see Kroger delivered strong across-the-board performance in the third quarter.
More importantly we demonstrated the consistency of our Customer 1st Strategy to deliver for customers and shareholders alike.
Before we turn to your questions I'd like to take a moment to thank our investors.
As you know Rodney will become CEO on January 1.
While I will continue to serve as Chairman through the end of next year Rodney will take the lead on the call next quarter.
I've appreciated our dialogue through the years.
You have made me a better retailer as we envisioned our future.
I hope you will continue to invest in Kroger in the years to come.
I know I will.
I could not be more confident in Kroger's future knowing that our entire leadership team and Rodney McMullen will guide Kroger to even higher levels of performance.
Now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just the first question to start out.
Mike you talked about the wider range in the fourth quarter.
There's not really a wide range around the ID expectation.
So is that more around gross margin? And does that say anything about competitive environment and what you're sort of thinking about there? Maybe just a little bit of help on that front.
Yes I don't think it's really -- that it's necessarily an increase in the competitive environment out there.
It's always been a competitive industry.
I think it's really -- the thing that's a little difficult to read at this point in time is exactly what the effect of the SNAP reduction will be.
It's early in that process.
While it's been a full month with November behind us it's a little difficult to extrapolate November.
With the Thanksgiving and holiday selling season in that month it's always a big selling season and people always find ways to have a good holiday celebration.
That coupled with the shorter holiday selling season of between Thanksgiving and Christmas as well as just the slow economic recovery it's just really difficult to predict.
As Rodney had mentioned we see great volatility of sales by day and by week and it's just a little difficult to predict exactly where we're going to fall in the range.
But again wherever we fall -- wind up falling inside that range for the year on EPS it's going to be a very solid year and one within our 8% to 11% guidance.
Research Division</strong> And to the extent the economy -- I mean you sort of hinted that it's harder but how do IDs look so far in Q4? Let me answer that Ed because I'd like to actually give you a little perspective.
I want to look at how they flowed through the third quarter and then bring you up-to-date in the current quarter.
In the third quarter they were stronger earlier in the quarter a little less strong near the end.
However so far in the fourth quarter we are running slightly higher than the sales guidance that we've just given.
But I want to add I wouldn't read an awful lot into where we are currently because of the unpredictable nature of the things that Mike just described the calendar SNAP benefits and the impact of health care.
Uncertainty has -- all of those create uncertainty for the consumer and as a result create some unpredictability.
So we're optimistic as you can see.
That's why I wanted to give you that perspective on how the sales have emerged so far this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to sort of quantify what you think SNAP has done so far? So far in November you can see where SNAP dollars are down but customers are substituting and buying with cash that shortfall.
So the trend so far for that customer hasn't changed but the way they're paying for their product has changed.
How much of that is at the expense of other consumption items would be pure speculation.
As you know the other thing that's helping the economy and everyone is fuel prices are lower this year than a year ago so some of that savings or benefit or whatever you want to call is probably coming from there as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel from Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually Steve Forbes on for John today.
If we take a look at natural and organic foods you mentioned the strength this quarter.
And I guess we're just hoping if you can provide some additional color on the current size of that business today.
How do I do this in a way that is helpful for you but not gives up competitive advantages? It's a meaningful part of our business.
And it would be I don't know probably our sixth or seventh largest department.
But it's by far the fastest-growing department on a percentage basis and sometimes even on a dollar basis it's one of the bigger departments.
I don't know Dave or Mike if you can think of any other way to give a little bit better insight.
I think the interesting thing to me is we're such a big company and seeing the growth of that inside our company you hardly are able to see it the way we do.
But it's been a fabulous part of our business.
We are pleased.
It certainly indicates where customers are headed and have suggested that what we're offering they really like.
If you look at our natural -- the competitors out there that focus purely on natural foods we would be the second-largest retailer out there on a stand-alone basis by a pretty large margin.
We would not be bigger than the largest in that space.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then I guess if we could just talk generally about I mean how you view the market share opportunity I mean maybe taking a brand like Simple Truth I guess the mature share or how the share develops over time do you see the ability to get to say double the nonorganic categories of overall market share? And then just lastly if you could just briefly touch on the margin structure and how did that look compared to the more conventional categories as well? If you look at the market share opportunities for us we can easily see how that business could double from where we are today.
And if I understood the question right you were direct at just Simple Truth but that comment is when I look at natural foods and organics overall when I make that comment.
But we don't see it as something that's a dream to double our business.
We actually have a pretty good plan in place that will get us significantly along the way on getting there in a reasonable period of time.
The margins on the business it's still -- it's a little bit better than the margins on the conventional business but it's not hugely different.
And like in produce you'll see us more and more pricing a lot of the organic items at the same price as conventional certainly in certain markets.
So we're driven because that's where our customer's headed.
We think the growth there is because customers overall our existing customers continue to buy more and more organic and natural foods plus the younger generation buys a higher share in those categories.
So we see a huge opportunity and we see it exciting and we have some great products to offer there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Mohr – Barclays Research Division.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jack Mohr calling on behalf of Meredith.
I guess I wanted to see what your strategy is more broadly around the new markets that you have recently announced investments in including the Dallas market the Michigan and Detroit and then also in Cincinnati.
And how would you prioritize the kind of acceleration of investment in those markets? And where do you see the expansion going forward? It's really a combination of several things.
It's markets where we see from a competitive standpoint an opportunity to gain share because there are certain things that we offer in the market that our competitors may not be offering.
We have a good relationship with our associates.
And we have a competitive cost structure where we can afford to invest and give the customer a good value and be very strong in the marketplace.
So it's a combination of all those things together.
It isn't necessarily driven by the economic growth in the market but we do see like in Dallas a great -- that economy there in Dallas/Fort Worth has a huge growth in front of it.
Research Division</strong> And the second question would be would you consider your strategy to be an aggressive offensive type of strategy in these markets or more of a defensive market share protection? How would you characterize and I guess maybe more granularly by each of those 3 to 4 new markets that are expanding? Yes if you look at the markets you've identified I feel very comfortable to call all of them offensive.
We see great opportunities to get a good return on our investment and grow the business there.
So I would characterize as all of them offense in nature.
I don't know if Dave would you...
I not only would characterize it that way I would even think about it from the point of view of we look at market share more as we can grow our connection with the customer better.
I would and Rodney did the same is I wouldn't use your term aggressive because that sort of implies you're going to come in and try to stomp on competitors and that's not the idea.
The idea is we attract our customers better we serve our customers better.
That they like what they're having and that's the relevancy.
The customers that we've talked about for so many years.
And that's the essence of really of our strategy.
So it is definitely offensive and it works exactly like Rodney described.
And the other thing is we have a great foundation of associates in these markets.
And by -- as you're building new stores you create a lot of job opportunities for people to get promoted.
And what we're finding is we have a lot of associates that are ready to continue to grow to take on more responsibilities.
So it's a double win and our shareholders get a good return because we find there's a high correlation between the higher our market share the higher our return on investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky from Northcoast Research.
If we're looking at the gasoline business thanks for the data on that but as gas prices have come down what has been the customer response to it? Is it still looking as an important reward? Are they buying more gallons because it's cheaper at a better margin? Can you talk about that a little bit? I'll just mention on gas as we've said and Mike or Rodney may want to add to that but we've said gas is -- fuel is an important part of our business for a variety of reasons.
Our gallons were up nicely.
We feel -- we continue to feel really good about where we're positioned.
But gasoline being a large purchase out of a family's budget even at these lower prices is still significant to -- and important to them to have the fuel rewards that we offer.
And it's important to have a convenient place to refuel at a really competitive price.
I just filled up the last 2 weeks twice at getting $1.05 off a gallon.
And I can tell you that even in my case I smile when I'm driving away from the gas pump.
So it makes a difference.
Rodney or Mike do you want to add anything? Okay.
Can you quantify what the gallon lift was in the quarter? Mike do you want to give any color to that? It was mid-single-digit gallon growth.
That's total not IDs because as you know we continue to add a lot of supermarket fuel centers in existing markets that cannibalizes the existing stores a little bit.
But it's -- we are very pleased with the direction of the gallons that we're selling in a market that's not growing anywhere near that much.
And identicals were positive.
Identicals were positive as well.
Correct.
Okay.
How about the mix of gallons at full price versus the reward price? I don't think we give that out ever do we? We haven't.
And I don't think we're going to start now.
The good news is I'm not even tempted to give it to you because I don't know the number off the top of my head.
But thank you for asking.
Yes I try.
On the convenience stores can you give us a little update on how that business is tracking and some of the call them experimental formats you've been looking at have been trending? Well if you look at the core business that continues to grow and their consecutive identical sales growth quarters is actually longer than the 40 that Kroger has achieved overall and they continued with their streak.
On the experimental formats I would say right now we're continuing to learn a lot.
And it's still early in the process and Mike Ellis and Chris Hjelm have actually been heading it up and we've actually recently restructured some of our internal operation structure to get more focus on it.
I could tell you we still remain excited about the opportunity but we haven't found something that I think our shareholders would be excited about the opportunity yet.
But we think there's something there and we continue to learn a lot.
Comment on general merchandise sales during the quarter and what that might be telling you about where the customer is headed.
And I'm not trying to get in a prediction of holiday sales but the sort of quarter year-over-year third quarter and how the general merch sales are tracking? One of the important metrics would be as you look at general merchandise probably the best metric would be the Fred Meyer Group had an outstanding Black Friday.
By the end of that day they were very pleased with the ID sales growth they had not important holiday for the general merchandise merchants.
And they feel like they're set up very well to have a strong holiday season.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> And Dave congratulations.
Thank you.
LLC</strong> We're going to miss you on the calls.
Thank you.
LLC</strong> But enjoy your retirement and your grandkids.
So I guess I want to go back to what Ed was focused in on in the first question.
Because if I -- and I really appreciate Mike you giving us some kind of thought process on the fourth quarter.
But I guess what pops into my head is kind of what's changed? In other words kind of new about SNAP.
And I mean when we were at your Analyst Day we also -- I think I asked about the days that were going to go missing and we kind of knew about it.
So I guess what I'm trying to understand it seems like you're a little bit more cautious about the fourth quarter generally.
I just wanted to understand what's kind of maybe changed in your -- even though your sales are running I guess over 3.5% right now.
So what's changed? Let me add a comment or 2 and then Mike can add to that Scott.
The thing I think I want to emphasize is that we see the world as a little more unpredictable than it generally is.
And the SNAP change that occurred certainly we knew at the investor conference what was going to happen but we didn't know what the outcome would be and we still don't actually know the outcome and that's what makes it unpredictable.
And the more we think about it we think it's -- there's a lot of ways in which it could be played out.
We still believe as we did in the investor conference that customers' eating is a high priority and so customers will tend to substitute other forms.
So they'll pay in cash or credit card if they didn't have the food stamps and then they will give up on something else.
And at the moment as I think Rodney mentioned they've been able to give up on fuel because the price of fuel is so low.
But you don't know where that will lie in the longer term and we also don't know how the Christmas holiday plays out.
The holiday calendar of course we knew that before too.
Now that it's right upon us and we're reflecting on it we're not quite sure what it means.
And then we watch every day the amount of uncertainty that our customers have generally not just with SNAP and not just with holiday but you look at the health care and some of those areas that we've discussed.
It just created enough unpredictability for us that we felt we needed to take a little more cautious position.
Okay.
Okay.
Now Mike doesn't want to add anything more to that.
So I think that's the only reason we felt that way.
I don't want you to over-interpret what we've said because I'm actually quite optimistic.
LLC</strong> Dave I appreciate that.
Is it something that -- because like you said your business is running pretty strong right now.
Is it behavior inside your stores where the week-to-week and what the consumer is buying? Or is it more of even though you guys are taking maybe even more share now what's going on with some of your competitors...
It's actually that when you look at the data it's a little it's more unpredictable more variable than what we're used to.
We've talked about this actually for quarters where we've seen wider swings from week-to-week especially first of the month and last of the month kind of swings.
We've talked a lot about that.
But we're even seeing now in addition to the week-to-week the daily kind of swings that are surprising.
But still in the end as you can see in the third quarter in the end it came out terrific.
So maybe I'm over-reading it but I just think that variability creates unpredictability and unpredictability means we need to be a little bit more cautious.
LLC</strong> That's terrific.
And then if I could ask one about gross margins and kind of what your thought process vis-a-vis inflation so I guess kind of a 2-part question.
I think you guys said about 1.5%.
Where do you think that's going? And do you think we've had deflation before and people freak out thinking that something is wrong and tend to overinvest in price on top of it? Is that a concern and where do you think the inflation is going? And then I'll yield.
Yes you bet Scott.
Thanks.
From an inflation standpoint when you look at where -- let's just talk about the grocery categories since that's just such a big percentage of our sales.
It's fairly remarkably consistent in the first second and third quarter all a little bit above 1% inflation.
You look at individual periods inside there and there's a little bit of variability but it's been fairly consistent inflation in that grocery category.
Some of the perishable categories have had a little bit more inflation during the year causing that overall index to be a little bit higher.
We really haven't experienced deflation and aren't predicting a deflationary environment for next year.
Our expectation as we end this year and go into next year is probably inflationary pressure is about the same where we are today a very low inflationary kind of period which is a period we operated in for a very long period of time.
There was a very long period of time until the last 3 or 4 years where there is virtually no inflation and in some of those years actually had deflation.
So we're comfortable with our ability to continue to execute and operate in this environment.
One of the things that does cause us frustration when you see problems with inflation is when there's big variability in an inflation from inside every year from high inflation to deflation and swinging back.
Those have been the periods of time where it's been difficult to manage through.
But a consistent little more than 1% in grocery.
Yes life's a little better with a little more.
But when it's consistent it's significantly easier to operate in that inconsistent environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to get into a little bit what categories are working because it seems like if you look at Nielsen data and some of the other areas out there the center of the store seems weak for the rest of the industry yet you're saying all of your categories were still showing good IDs.
So maybe if you could tell us color on the center of store versus the perimeter? Well Rodney may want to add some color to this but we've identified some of the strong growth areas that we have better than our average sales places like produce natural food.
I don't think we've mentioned.
Well we did mention pharmacy.
It's also true in deli and seafood.
But -- and natural food has a number of items that are within the center of the store so that would be partially part of your answer.
We're also seeing a really strong or improved trends anyway and very strong in some but the categories that are more discretionary which illustrates the bifurcated nature of the economic recovery things like Starbucks and sushi and Boar's Head and some of the upscale cheese.
Greeting cards are doing reasonably well and toys are too both of which are in the center of the store.
And Rodney you may want to add some more color to where you see that.
No I would agree.
If you look at -- it's kind of hard how you define center store anymore.
Dave's comment about natural foods is one where I always struggle with because technically it probably is center of store.
That would be -- the center store is the weaker part of our business but it has been for a long period of time because people are buying more and more -- they want dinner prepared and they just come in and pick something up.
So there's all kinds of shifts going on but we continue to gain good share in what business is there.
And it really is just moving -- adapting as the market changes.
And Mike reminded me that grocery units continue to grow so it's still positive.
Don't take too much into what I said.
Yes and the important note is that we sell both.
Well it's really important to be positioned to take advantage of both because it's left up to the customer what they want versus us trying to force them.
Research Division</strong> And if you dig in a little bit on that natural food category are you still adding aisle space and SKUs to that area or is it really just more higher turns of existing products? It's a good question and it's really both.
We continue to -- there's a lot of product innovation in those areas so you find a lot of good new products that you can add that customers like.
We continue to find subcategories within it that we haven't had in the past that's doing very well that we continue to add.
Plus if you look at the base business it just continues to grow.
So you have all those things happening.
We are continuing to add space to those to that department when you look across the company.
Research Division</strong> And are those more focused on your upscale stores or is this actually creeping more into some of the core stores also? This would be all stores.
The amount of it would be different.
But a value store would have changes as well.
It isn't focused just on upscale by no means.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Wolf from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Dave I just want to add my congratulations on everything you've achieved in the last 10 years or so at Kroger.
Thanks Andrew.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
First at the end of the quarter when things got weak could you tie that or would you tie that to using focus groups or your own intuition or whatever to the uncertainty around the government shutdown? Do you think that was the primary reason October sort of softened for your business? Well my intuition says it was a variety of things.
There was a modest change in the calendar in such a way that that might have affected it a little bit.
I think that there was some differences in our own merchandising from last year to this year not a lot but enough that you could maybe see a little difference in it.
And then third is the point you raised is I think there were a lot of unpredictable things going on and causing people to be uncertain.
I know for sure that in some retailers you could see a clear change in sales performance when the government was shut down because of the wildly uncertain market that created for some people.
And the categories that were within that retailer would have been within our store and we didn't see quite [indiscernible] and we certainly didn't see that kind of a variation in our total sales or even any one department.
But I think each of those things go together conspire together to create what I think is probably going to be an anomaly.
But it illustrated to me how unpredictable some of these events may be.
And that's probably what makes me a little cautious.
It doesn't make me negative it makes me cautious about predicting not cautious about what the future will actually be.
That's why I emphasized I'm actually quite optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think that's a good segue into my real -- my primary question which is around the sort of ongoing implementation of the Affordable Care Act and the kind of machinations it's changing and as it's going -- the rules that are coming out and all that's going on.
So we've had our conference recently.
It seems to be especially from the corporate viewpoints creating a lot of consternation about the consumer about take-home checks are those going to change January 1 materially and really about corporate cost structure.
So sure you guys have put a lot of time and energy into this.
I know there's a lot of uncertainty around it.
But I wonder if you could just share with us right now and I know this will change over time kind of your best thinking around the consumer what it's going to mean for the consumer and what it could mean for Kroger's cost structure.
Maybe it's a positive thing relative to nonunion businesses but I'd just like to hear what you think about that.
Well I have a couple of thoughts and recognizing it's early and as you point out it makes things a little hard to know for sure.
But the first thing is that everyone will be affected in a similar kind of a way.
I don't think Kroger will be singled out in any particular way either in advantage or disadvantage.
And as a result if it ends up being worse than I'm mentally thinking then it's worse for everybody than it is -- it's just not Kroger.
But also what we're seeing early on so far is our estimates and the way we've played out the future is consistent with what we have been thinking and what we've been feeling meaning our cost will go up a little bit it's going to be manageable it's within the context of what we see as our long-term earnings guidance.
And it doesn't change our confidence level at all about what our future looks like and our ability to perform.
The short-term effect the effect on uncertainty and unpredictability for the customer and whether that changes their behavior that actually could be a short-term issue it certainly could be a long-term issue too if I'm wrong.
But the short-term issue is more because of the unpredictable nature does that cause the customer to be more cautious themselves and their behavior.
That's what many people felt happened with the government shutdown.
And then of course once that got back to normal then a lot of the business looks like it kind of recovered and came back to normal too.
Rodney I don't know.
You and I have talked a little bit about that.
You want to add any...
No.
No there are some customers that will probably end up saving money as well.
If you were in one of the groups where you were paying more for premiums than under the new structure so there's some people that's on the other side of that as well.
So I think Dave's point on unpredictable in terms of how the customers are going to react I think the customer doesn't even know how they're going to react yet because they're still trying to understand what does it mean.
Yes.
Now you did mention the union nonunion picture and of course we have a number of collective bargaining agreements.
And in those it does create a little I want to say a little bigger pressure on both parties on the union bargainers and on the company bargainers because there's certain changes you have to make because of the law.
And when you make those then that has cost implications and then that puts pressure on the rest of the contract to make whatever other changes you have to make to adjust for that.
And I could see the argument that might put a union operator at a competitive disadvantage.
I don't happen to feel that way but I can certainly see the argument.
Because I think what it really does is it causes the parties at the bargaining table to try to face reality and say "How are we going to collectively negotiate this out and compromise this out in a way that works for the law and works for our associates and works for the company?" And that's been our objective and so far we've been pleased with being able to do that.
Research Division</strong> I just want to get one follow-up on a question a few folks including Mark Wiltamuth I think asked on where the natural food growth is coming velocity versus expansion.
And really Rodney I think you said the business could double and I clearly see that that's more than likely.
But would you -- could you put a time frame around that bracket it? Would it be closer to 10 years closer to 5 years within which you predict I know not to the year but what -- would it be closer to one or the other? I would say it's closer to 5.
Now Mike Ellis is over there cringing because if you -- I would be pushing him to maybe get there a little faster.
True.
But definitely I would see it in the next 5 years' time frame.
And your last question comes from the line of Karen Short from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> ; I just wanted to ask a couple more housekeeping-related questions.
On your comp this quarter and also on your gross margin what was the impact of generics this quarter? Have we finally cycled that completely or are there still some impact on the comps? With and without pharmacy numbers without pharmacy we were a little bit stronger without it when you take pharmacy out of our sales along with fuel so there was still a slight impact on the ID sales as a result of the pharmacy department.
It wasn't [indiscernible] certainly declining.
Research Division</strong> So it should be fully cycled by '14? It's not meaningful.
It's not meaningful anymore it's so small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the gross margin deterioration that we saw this quarter now that we've more or less cycled the generic benefit on the gross is that kind of -- is that our I should think about the gross margin deterioration this quarter? Like it was obviously less in the first and second and then now it's just taking a little bit of a step up not that meaningful but it's [indiscernible] I would characterize where our gross wound up a little different than deterioration when you look at the cost savings the total operating cost savings that Rodney spoke of when we look at OG&amp;A plus rent and depreciation we clearly paid for our investments in gross.
And we continue to strive the balance on our rolling 4-quarters basis the investments we make in gross and the reductions in our cost.
And as we've always said individual quarters can have different results than the full year happens to have.
And I wouldn't take one quarter and try to extrapolate that.
I would look more where we've been on a rolling 4-quarters basis or on an annual basis so far this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then looking at your CapEx you brought your CapEx spend up to the high -- well to the high end of the range but it seems like the projects that you have have kind of remained unchanged.
Anything to point to there because it was $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion? Well just that we -- where we sit today having spent $1.8 billion year-to-date it's more likely than not that we're going to be in that $2.4 billion range.
When you look at the number of projects the major projects may not be appreciably different as a result of that.
We're doing a lot of smaller remodels that don't fall into the major project category.
Plus we're having a lot of spending in 2013 on 2014 projects so we can get them opened earlier in the year.
And that is something we continually work on is to not look at those budgets necessarily that you budgeted to open in '14.
So spend all your dollars in '14.
So there is quite a bit of pre-spend on 2014 openings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is when you actually close on Harris Teeter will you provide updated guidance at that time or are you going to wait until you report your fourth quarter? My view is that considering that it will be by the end of our fiscal year which means by the end of January we'll probably take February to sit down with them.
It's a little difficult today to have even conversations with them about what their business plans should look like next year relative to the FTC will be concerned.
We're trying to run their business and we haven't closed on the merger.
So my expectation is we'll take the month of February to sit down with the management team at Harris Teeter to solidify jointly what their business plan should look like for 2014 and then give combined guidance when we release earnings for the full year in March.
But the accretion for the first full year would be consistent with what we talked about before.
Absolutely there's nothing that we know of or would expect to know of that would cause the $0.06 to $0.09 to be different.
Yes great Karen.
Thank you very much.
And before we end the call today I would like to share some additional brief thoughts with our associates who we encourage to listen.
10 years of positive identical sales growth is simply amazing and I'm proud to be a part of an organization that is committed to serving our customers and enriching the lives of others.
As I've said earlier each of us had a role to play in reaching this milestone.
It is one you should each be proud of.
And thank you all for what you do to make our stores the best place in which to shop during the holidays.
Remember the little things like a smile and a friendly greeting always make a customer's day better.
And actually they make our day better too.
I hope each of you celebrate the holidays with family and friends.
We wish you Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
That completes the call today.
Thank you all for joining us.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 The Kroger Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Ms.
Holmes.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our fourth quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Rodney McMullen Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Rodney? Thank you Cindy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results are Mike Ellis Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our associates continue to execute our accelerated growth plan resulting in a great quarter and a full year we are proud of.
Kroger is delivering on the key performance targets we committed to when we outlined our long-term growth strategy at our October 2012 investor meeting.
Mike Schlotman will give more details about each of the 4 metrics but I'd like to share the highlights.
We achieved our 41st consecutive quarter of identical supermarket sales growth.
We expanded our rolling 4-quarter FIFO operating margin excluding fuel.
We improved our return on invested capital even as we increased capital investments and we increased our market share in 2013.
For the full year we continue to perform for shareholders by delivering adjusted earnings per share growth of 13%.
We achieved our ninth consecutive year of reducing operating expense as a rate of sales and we returned 600 -- or $928 million to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
That we accomplished all of this while also successfully completing our merger with Harris Teeter is a great testament to our associates' determined focus on serving our customers.
We are confident that 2014 will be a great year and that we will continue to deliver growth that investors can count on.
Consistent with what we've been saying for the last several years we expect the economic recovery in 2014 to remain fragile and uneven.
Things will continue to get better for some customers while others remain under economic stress and we are doing all we can to help.
For customers focused on their budget we continue to offer low entry price points on key items especially in our corporate brands portfolio.
If you look at our SNAP households during the fourth quarter they increased their total monthly spending in our stores for each of the 3 months since the benefit reductions took effect compared to the prior year.
What we saw play out in the fourth quarter was what we anticipated that SNAP customers spent more of their own cash on food.
All of our customers are benefiting from our relentless focus on friendly service and fresh products including our organic and natural foods and our own unique brands like Simple Truth.
We have a lot of room to grow because the overall industry in which we operate in is expanding.
We continue to improve our connection with customers across the entire spectrum.
Whether value mainstream or upscale customers we are competitively positioned to deliver the right value proposition and our customer insights help us to focus on the right opportunities for growth in each segment so that we will capture more of the share of the massive food market.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike Ellis to outline our operational performance.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
We continue to have opportunity with our low customers because on average we capture $0.50 of every $1 they spend on the products that we sell.
This figure has remained steady due to the effect that new households have on this calculation.
As we told you in December our loyal household count has increased by an outstanding 83% over the past decade.
We do however see incrementally more spending from our mature loyal households.
During the fourth quarter we continue to grow the number of loyal households and at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
We continue to improve our friendliness product freshness shopping experience and price perception in our customers' eyes.
As you know we closely tracked these 4 keys against our competitors.
What we have been tracking internally is consistent with the independent American Customer Satisfaction Index released last month which reported steady improvement in Kroger customer satisfaction.
Inflation was low in the fourth quarter.
We expect inflation to be low in 2014 as well which is reflected in our identical store sales guidance for the year which Mike Schlotman will talk about shortly.
A key driver of growth is our commitment to Customer 1st innovation.
As you know we have done a lot of innovative things over the past couple of years to create unique competitive advantages for Kroger like our faster checkout initiative.
Each quarter we will highlight one or more innovations that improve our connection with customers and improve our market share.
This quarter I will highlight corporate brands and digital.
Corporate brands continue to be leading differentiator for Kroger.
We introduced 937 new products in fiscal 2013 including 100 new Simple Truth items.
Simple Truth continues to grow at an astonishing pace and we now expect it to reach $1 billion brand status by the end of fiscal 2014.
Corporate brands continue to gain market share during the fourth quarter with corporate brands representing approximately 27.2% of total units sold and 24.4% of our sales dollars including pharmacy and fuel.
We recently announced the exciting new acquisition of our digital coupon marketing provider YOU Technology.
We believe that YOU Tech has strong growth potential and will over time become the leading digital coupon provider for U.S.
retailers not just Kroger.
YOU Tech has helped us reach another digital milestone recently.
We began offering digital coupons in early 2010 and within 3 years our customers had downloaded 500 million digital coupons.
Customers download the next 500 million in only 14 months.
In fact at approximately 5:57 p.m.
Eastern Time on February 6 a customer downloaded Kroger's 1 billionth digital coupon.
It was an exciting moment for us and one that demonstrates the growth and customer acceptance of our digital efforts.
Now I will provide a brief update on labor relations.
We're currently negotiating contracts in Cincinnati Atlanta and Southern California.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitability which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for all of our associates.
In fact we added more than 7 000 jobs last year and more than 40 000 jobs over the last 6 years.
Those numbers are even larger when you include Harris Teeter's more than 25 000 associates.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger's growth metrics and financial results as well as our guidance for 2014.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
We exceeded our expectations for the quarter and the year thanks to our associates performing to deliver growth.
We continue to implement our long-term growth strategy which includes targeting capital to grow our business in new and existing markets leveraging customer insights to solve varied customer needs through both traditional and digital channels and continuing our share buyback program.
As Rodney mentioned earlier when we outlined our accelerated growth strategy at our October 2012 investor conference we also identified 4 key performance targets for shareholders to measure our progress.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the results in each metric.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter ID sales growth of 4.3%.
This strong performance was supported by ID sales growth in every department and every supermarket division.
We continue to see outstanding double-digit identical sales growth in our natural foods department.
Our produce and deli bakery departments also posted strong ID sales growth highlighting our customers' continued demand for fresh products.
Kroger's pharmacy department continues to outperform as well.
Our ID sales results in light of the slow economic recovery and low inflation throughout the year are quite remarkable.
Weather conditions across much of the country were a net positive as well.
Our team's Customer 1st response to weather events kept our stores open and shelf stock which coupled with our convenient locations made Kroger more accessible for customers who flock to stores to stock up before winter storms.
For only 4 quarters adjusted FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and the extra week increased by 11 basis points compared to the adjusted fiscal 2012 result.
This is a result above our commitment to grow the rates slightly over time on a rolling 4 quarters' basis.
The third target metric is return on invested capital.
We reported a return on invested capital excluding Harris Teeter on a 52-week rolling 4 quarters' basis of 13.43% compared to 13.42% during the same period last year.
As we told you as we increase capital investments it will be more difficult to grow ROIC in the near term.
However as these investments mature we expect them to be accretive to ROIC.
Our fourth target metric is market share growth which we report on annually.
We look at market share the way customers would look at it where they spend their money.
In the past we use Nielsen Homescan data as our source for market share.
We're now using a different Nielsen product Nielsen POS plus which includes all point-of-sale data from several competitors and includes all departments inside our stores except for pharmacy.
We believe Nielsen POS plus is a good data -- is a good and consistent source.
While POS plus does not include all of our competitors today it covers -- captures roughly 85% of the items we sell including most perishable items which Nielsen Homescan did not include.
According to Nielsen POS data Kroger's overall market share of the products we sell in the markets where we operate grew approximately 50 basis points during 2013.
This data also indicates that our share increased in 16 of the 18 markets outlined by the Nielsen Report and was down slightly in 2 markets.
Walmart supercenters are 1 of our top 2 competitors in 13 of the 18 markets outlined in the Nielsen report.
Kroger increased share in 12 of those markets and declined slightly in 1.
The Nielsen POS data is generated by real retailers who report their sales to Nielsen.
This includes food drug mass and dollar channels.
This does not include C-store and club.
Now I'll share our fourth quarter results and fiscal 2013 results.
Please note that Harris Teeter is included in the company's ending balance sheet but because of the timing late in the year it had no effect on our adjusted fourth quarter or fiscal 2013 earnings.
If you remember last year we gave you details to better understand how our core business performed.
This year we have similarly outlined our adjustments for fiscal 2013 and 2012 in Table 6 of our earnings release.
The following results are all adjusted as outlined in Table 6 and exclude the effect of the 53rd week last year.
In the fourth quarter our net earnings totaled $421.9 million or $0.81 per diluted share.
Excluding the items outlined in Table 6 Kroger's adjusted net earnings per diluted share grew 10% to $0.78 in the fourth quarter.
We recorded a $9.7 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to $41.2 million credit in the same quarter last year.
FIFO gross margin increased 11 basis points from the same period last year excluding retail fuel operations.
Operating general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation excluding retail fuel operations declined 16 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year's adjusted fourth quarter.
Before I move on to discuss Kroger's full year 2013 results I'll share some data on our retail fuel operations.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the fourth quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.113 compared to $0.13 in the same quarter last year after adjusting for the additional week.
For the full year the cents per gallon fuel margin was roughly $0.141 compared with $0.14 last year again after adjusting for the additional week.
Turning now to full year 2013 results Kroger reported total sales of $98.4 billion in fiscal 2013 an increase of 3.9% after adjusting for the extra week last year.
On this basis and excluding fuel total sales increased 4.2% over the prior year.
Identical supermarket sales without fuel increased 3.6% in fiscal 2013 compared with the prior year.
Net earnings for fiscal 2013 totaled $1.52 billion or $2.90 per diluted share adjusted net earnings of $1.5 billion or $2.85 per share a growth of 13%.
Kroger's LIFO charge for fiscal 2013 was comparable to fiscal 2012.
Strong identical sales and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses as a rate of sales for the ninth consecutive year.
In fiscal 2013 OG&amp;A costs plus rent and depreciation without fuel and the extra week were down 24 basis points.
For 2014 our planned uses of cash remain unchanged maintain our current investment-grade debt rating repurchase shares have an increasing dividend and fund increasing capital investments.
Net total debt was $10.9 billion an increase of $2.3 billion from a year ago as a result of the Harris Teeter transaction and due to the timing late in our fiscal year we realized no incremental EBITDA in 2013 from this transaction.
Therefore Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.43 compared to 2.04 during the same period last year.
Kroger remains committed to managing its free cash flow to achieve a 2 to 2.2x net total debt to EBITDA ratio over the next 18 to 24 months.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $2.3 billion for the year compared to $2 billion for 2012.
For 2014 we expect capital investments to be in the $2.8 billion to $3 billion range including Harris Teeter.
As you know part of our long-term growth strategy is to increase capital investments over time.
This will take the form of adding square footage in markets where we believe our business model is already resonating with customers.
With a better presence we can grow our market share and return on invested capital.
We continue to make good progress adding square footage in our fill-in markets and we have identified others based on various metrics.
Additionally we continue to narrow our focus on markets where we do not currently operate with the intention of selecting one to enter organically.
In 2013 we opened the first stores under our new capital allocation strategy.
It is still early but we are pleased with their performance to budget and expect these and future stores will greatly support our growth plan.
During 2013 Kroger purchased 16.1 million common shares for a total investment of $609 million.
Since the end of the fourth quarter and through the close of the market yesterday Kroger has approximately $18.7 remaining -- $18.7 million remaining under the $500 million stock repurchase program announced in October of 2012.
Now I'd like to outline our specific growth objectives for fiscal 2014.
Kroger anticipates identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 2.5% to 3.5% for fiscal 2014.
This range takes into account the expectation of low inflation during the year and includes Harris Teeter.
Full year net earnings for fiscal 2014 are expected to range from $3.14 to $3.25 per diluted share.
This guidance includes Harris Teeter.
Growing fiscal 2013 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.85 by our long-term growth rate of $0.08 to $0.11 equates to a range of $3.08 to $3.16 per diluted share.
We then added the net accretion to earnings from the Harris Teeter merger of $0.06 to $0.09 per diluted share excluding transition in -- transaction costs resulting in the 10% to 14% growth rate for fiscal 2014.
As you think about early estimates for 2015 we would expect to return to our 8% to 11% long-term growth rate.
As we report earnings during 2014 we will not break out Harris Teeter results separately which is consistent with our treatment of all supermarket divisions today.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a growing dividend and we expect Kroger's full year FIFO operating margin rate in 2014 excluding fuel to expand slightly compared to adjusted fiscal 2013 results.
When looking at our cadence by quarter we expect the first second and fourth quarters to be within the 10% to 14% range and the third quarter to be above it.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
Being part of a growing retailer is exciting for our associates.
7 000 new jobs last year means not just new team members but opportunities for our current associates to grow and advance as well.
Our business is strong.
Our merger with Harris Teeter is going well and our associates continue to execute our growth strategy.
The remarkable consistency of Kroger's performance has shown time and again that serving our customers is serving our shareholders.
I can think of no better example than our associates' dynamic response to the severe weather in many of our markets during the fourth quarter.
Often our logistics and distribution teams sped up deliveries to keep stores stocked several days before major storms.
Most of our stores remained open even in the worst of the winter weather.
In some cases our associates even welcome stranded travelers in extreme freezing conditions to spend the night in one of our stores.
Our customers trust that our -- their neighborhood Kroger will be open and stocked when it matters most and we couldn't be more proud of the way our associates rose to the occasion.
Now we look forward to your questions.
Glenn you can go ahead and get questions started.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to start with a strategic question.
You provided the market share performance and how you do against supercenters.
I'm curious how many neighborhood markets are you against today and what has the experience there been? And how do you think about competitively addressing that format right which is basically a supermarket format versus a supercenter? In terms of the specific numbers I wouldn't have those.
I don't know Mike or Mike if you have the specific numbers? Obviously we have a lot of respect for everybody that we compete against.
We would not look at a neighborhood store much different than a supercenter.
And what we're really focused on is obviously our customer and serving our customers and making sure that we continue to improve the value but we really don't see the effect much different.
Part of it will depend on how close that neighborhood store is to a Walmart -- prior Walmart store as well affected as well.
And then Mike anything you want to add? Well we know that there's significant capital being allocated to the neighborhood markets but as Rodney mentioned one of our advantages really is our location.
We're located within 2 miles of so many of our customers that and convenience and the variety that we offer we feel comfortable where we're at today.
LLC Research Division</strong> And we don't know -- I mean in the markets we -- over last week with supercenter and your gain in share you don't know where that's coming from.
So that could be coming from -- even a lot of that could be coming from fallout among traditional food retailers? That's correct John.
And we -- also if you look at some of the additions that we're doing with natural foods organic things like that so some of the gain in share would be that as well.
So it's not just only other traditional supermarkets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then well lastly what do you think the impact is in totality right the good and bad impact from ACA this year? I was -- we were looking at each other.
When you look at '14 we really don't think at the end of the day it'll have a huge amount of effect in '14.
Obviously over time it will have an increasing -- increasingly amount of effect.
Whether that's a net positive or a negative I think it's way too early because obviously on some pieces of it it's a positive because it expands people's access to health care which in our pharmacy business and our health care business is a positive.
So I think it's way too early to tell you one thing or the other.
We're working really hard to make sure that we try to minimize the effect on our associates as we transition to the new plans.
And your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I actually quickly like to follow up just on what you were talking about now just to confirm that when you talk about the impact on your associates it's only the nonunionized associates you're talking about right? No.
I mean obviously with the union plans we will partner with the union and try to make sure that we minimize that effect but it's much broader than just only our own health care plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to switch gears and talk about -- I know that you're investing a fair amount of money in North Texas and that it does include not just building facility stores but also lowering prices.
And I was just wondering if you could talk more broadly about your strategy.
I think this is an indication of the -- things you were talking about more broadly but I wanted -- I just want to talk about why that market and how it's going and what is the new response to lower prices? If you look at the strategy itself there would be lots of markets that we would have similar strategies in.
It just happens that this one has a little -- it's a little higher profile than some of the others and why that happens is always hard to say.
As you know overall we remain committed to slightly improving our operating margins.
And as we take costs out of the business we partner with dunnhumby and figure out a way to give that lower cost back to the customers in ways that matter.
And as you know that's been our strategy for many years and we continue to do that.
And if you look at the things that we're doing in fourth -- that we did in '13 the things we're doing in '14 we're very pleased with the results we're getting just like we have been for the last several years.
I don't know Mike or Mike do you want to add anything? No.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay that actually clarifies things somewhat.
And then I'm going to ask a tough question and I'm not even sure I should ask it.
But would you do anything in the world of M&amp;A that would substantially change your balance sheet or the tasks that you have to accomplish in the next couple of years? It's an interesting way to ask the elephant-in-the-room question Meredith.
Research Division</strong> I try to be interesting all the time.
It just doesn't do us any good to comment on potential activity that's out there so we'll just take the stance of no comment on M&amp;A activity.
That's one of the things.
Meredith the only thing I would add is just remember the model that we've outlined in terms of growing our business for our shareholders doesn't require any type of mergers to achieve.
And if you think about the merger with Harris Teeter the benefit that that brought to our company we actually increased the growth rate from the first year.
In terms of specifics I'm not going to get into any specifics.
And your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Meredith you took my question.
So I actually wanted to go to gross margins and a lot of our work is showing you guys priced very aggressively on some of these fast-turning items probably more aggressively than we've ever seen you.
Yet your FIFO gross margins are probably better than we would've expected and continue to push in the right direction.
How are you doing this? I mean one side of it you're taking huge share pricing is very aggressive.
But on the other side it seems like you've got some secret sauce here.
And I just wanted to have any comments on how you're able to do this.
The fourth quarter was a little different than everybody had seen and has expected from us.
Clearly pharmacy that we talked about in the prepared comments had a very strong year and was a good contributor to gross margin.
It had a nice gross margin increase.
Our mix in the fourth quarter was very strong.
When you look at just gross margin obviously a lot of those fresh categories have a little bit higher overall margin than some of the center-of-the-store categories so that mix can help.
And certainly the snow helped as we made the comments on people coming in to stock up before weather events.
Typically when people go on a normal shopping trip they shop off of their lists.
When they come in to stock up before an event like that they come in to stock up before an event like that and they aren't really beholden to a list at that point in time.
So I would say those 3 were the main drivers of what we saw in the fourth quarter not necessarily something that's going to continue out into the future.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then I -- one other question about the guidance.
I noticed -- I think you're down pretty low on your repurchase authorization.
I think Mike you said about $18 million or something or $18 million $19 million left.
How much of the guidance of repurchase activity is contemplated in that guidance? I mean should we expect a change I mean you're -- like you're almost done? Yes a couple things on repurchase activity.
We've been a regular buyer of our shares since January of 2000.
There have been a few times when we've been out in the market and most notably around the White House work stoppage and then when we were blacked out as a result of the Harris Teeter negotiations.
But other than that we've generally been in the market almost all of the time and I would expect going into the future we would continue to be in the market.
Obviously I don't have a lot of money left to do that with and our guidance as we just talked about back in October of '12 in the early years of that growth model it is an important contributor to our earnings per share growth until those stores as we talked about coming out of the ground beginning in 2013 start to mature we will rely on some share buyback activity.
To get any more specific than that -- I'm not going to go any more specific.
LLC</strong> So there is some of that contemplated in the guidance you put out? Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I have 2 questions let me try and attack the elephant a bit differently.
Can you remind us in general what your requirements are or what attributes you look for when you do M&amp;A? And my impression has been that you're not necessarily interested in what I would call turnaround stories that needs some price investment but you'd rather buy a ready-to-wear asset like Harris Teeter.
Is that a fair judgment still? Would you theoretically look at stores that need a little TLC if the price is attractive enough? Just on a general basis.
Well even when you look at -- let's just talk about the Harris Teeter transaction.
The thing that was attractive about Harris Teeter as a transaction is that it's a well-run company that overall we admired a whole lot.
That's not to say -- you only picked off price as an attribute that might need some TLC.
What we have not liked over time is poorly run companies not just one attribute of the company that might have an issue.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Can you maybe just add a little color on what poorly run means to you? We're getting close to just -- to asking the question.
Poorly run just -- results aren't strong cash flow is not strong pick the attributes.
Research Division</strong> Okay I hear you.
And then other question can you talk a little bit about how happy you are with center store performance in general? And the reason I'm asking is the shelf's stable numbers that we're seeing from the manufacturing side just very sluggish across the board except natural and organic and yet we're seeing specialty groceries right that focus on fresh prepared et cetera do pretty well across the board.
I walked down the aisles of Kroger and Safeway and SUPERVALU banners and I see a lot of meaningful space still being given to cereal soup and categories in decline.
I'm just wondering how long can that last right? What would it take for you to take a more dramatic change to your in-store footprint right so you can replace some of that dry grocery shelving with some room for fresh prepared et cetera? Well the core of our business is still a big part of our business.
And when we look at space allocation especially in some of our new stores you'll find that we are allocating more and more space to perishable refrigerated and the categories that the customer really cares about.
The customer is telling us that's what they're interested in but we can't ignore the center store and health and beauty care products and grocery that are still a big big part of our business.
But we constantly look at space allocation and make adjustments based on what the customer is telling us they want.
Research Division</strong> Okay so no plans to sort of accelerate that shift in space? No I think we're constantly looking at this the allocation and making changes.
If you get into our new stores I believe you'll see some changes in mix.
And your next question comes from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a few quick follow-ups.
First I just want to clarify and you guys have probably explained it more than once but so the SNAP reductions are actually supporting market share gains for you? Is that fair to say? Well I wouldn't say it that way.
What we're seeing is our SNAP customers continue to spend more money with us and what they're doing is substituting SNAP dollars with their own cash or on debit or credit card.
We believe -- if you look overall fuel prices are down to even depending on what part of the period you're looking at.
So we believe some of that has been funded by our SNAP customers spending less in other places and reallocating dollars.
So I wouldn't make the direct connection the way you did.
We're really focused on how do we make sure that we're giving the best value we can to that customer along with all our other customers and they're rewarding us by spending more money with us.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's great.
Second follow-up question which is the weather and stock-up any -- did you guys take a guess at quantifying how much that might have helped comps in the fourth quarter in gross margin? It's really difficult to say.
When you look at weeks like that clearly it's a net positive when it winds up happening.
But you have days that are up double the prior year and then you have a couple days after that that are down significantly from the prior year.
So it gets very very choppy.
Clearly with the help and as I said in the prepared comments or I said earlier in the -- to the gross profit question the mix during those shops helps the gross profit rate because people come in really not with the list like they'd normally do but they come in to have things deep for the next couple of days.
Robbie overall was -- it was helpful but we did -- when you look at the 2004 expectations we grew that off of the actual '13 excluding any unusual items.
So we did not adjust out that -- any weather benefit.
But overall we do think it was a net positive.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then last question I'll let you guys move to the next.
Harris Teeter I'm a personal fan of.
I shop there when I'm down south.
And is there any other -- you guys have talked about some of the things they do well that you might be able to bring into The Kroger store base.
Anything since we last did a conference call that you can update us on? Robbie it's -- the merger ultimately closed January 28.
So it's only been a handful of weeks since we've actually been able to roll up our sleeves and have the kind of conversations you want to have when you start integrating a company.
That said we've made a lot of progress in those 6 or so weeks since the merger's been closed.
Clearly one of the things we like is that about -- a little over 160 of their stores they have what -- it's called Express Lane we call it click and collect.
That's something that intrigues us as -- it's an internet but pick-it-up yourself kind of a process at the store that appears to appeal very strongly to their customer.
That's something we'll try to learn from.
But it's been a very positive and we're very happy with the start we've had to the integration progress with Harris Teeter.
And any surprise that we've seen has been a positive not a negative surprise which is always nice.
And your next question comes from the line of Greg Hessler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So my question is with the Harris Teeter acquisition it kind of brought you back into the M&amp;A market where you've been absent for a number of years.
And I know you can't comment on market rumors but internally has there been any sort of shift or change in the way that you'd look at M&amp;A opportunities? No I'd say it's consistent with how we've always done it.
And also as I said in my prepared comments our investment-grade rating is important to us and we continue to expect to allocate free cash flow to maintain our rating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think with the Harris Teeter acquisition you sort of temporarily went above that 2 to 2.2x net leverage target.
I mean how much flex do you feel like you have within the investment-grade rating band? And would you be able -- or would you be willing to even go maybe a little bit higher than that for the right strategic opportunity? Yes -- I'm not going to comment on that.
And obviously the only reason -- the reason we're above the 2.2x on Harris Teeter is the shareholders won't wait a year to get their check for the purchase of their shares.
They want that upfront.
We don't get a year's worth of EBITDA until the end of the year.
So it's really just the fact we have all the debt and none of the EBITDA now and we feel very good about our ability to get back under 2.2x in the time frame we outlined to the rating agencies.
And your next question comes from the line of Karen Short Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions just on your guidance.
What is your -- in guidance specifically.
What is your guidance and planned D&amp;A as well as interest expense? It seems like -- I mean we can kind of calculate interest expense or incremental interest expense related to Harris Teeter but D&amp;A was a little bit of a wildcard.
So any color there? Obviously from the write-off of the assets for Harris Teeter the amortization of that will pick up.
I don't have that in front of me and I prefer not to go giving guidance on every line of the income statement.
I might as well just hand you my business plan and let the whole world have it which I think we give as much or more guidance than anyone.
So you should be able to back into it just based on the public guidance we've given of what our earnings per share is and the number of lines we've given you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at your MEPP guidance for 2014 I think it reflects kind of an 11% increase in the expense.
Any color on why that increase is so high.
That just seems high to me.
The contributions into the plan? Research Division</strong> Yes the $250 million? It's just our expectation.
There are some funds in rehab status that -- one of the ways you get out of rehab status is you put a little bit more money in benefits come down a little bit and over time it's an attempt to try to get them in a better funded position.
It's -- while the percentage is fairly strong it's not that much incremental cash that we're expecting next year.
And it would be something that we'll work with the unions on to make sure that we try to get those funds in a status that's sustainable over time.
And it would be an ongoing negotiation and relationship in terms of the balance between what money we spend on pension what money we spend on health care and what we're able to do on wages.
So it's really all together.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just on your investment-grade ratings getting back to that 2x to 2.2x I guess what I'm confused about is why wouldn't they be looking at the pro forma number regardless in terms of your investment-grade rating [indiscernible] they are? Yes I believe the rating agencies do that which is why they did not downgrade us when we announced the merger.
Obviously the conversations were -- with them were our commitment to get it back down there based on a pro forma calculation you do for them and that's what they got comfortable with.
So from the rating agency standpoint they would look at it that way.
But from the number I have to report my number is my number.
And your next question comes from the line of Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Could you touch on a couple of categories in particular about how they did during the quarter one would be general merchandise especially at Fred Meyer and then prepared foods please? Yes general merchandise it was such an interesting holiday season with 6 less selling days between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
And predicting our business and building our business plan around that was certainly -- it doesn't happen very often.
But overall the season came out pretty decent.
It wasn't as different as we would've thought it would've been.
I think we actually came out okay when you figure the changes in by Friday the differences in the calendar and everything else that occurred.
And so in general I would say it came out okay.
Jewelry for example for us had a really stellar quarter and general merchandise was fairly decent.
I mean I would say it came out okay.
But in terms of -- what was the other question prepared food? Yes -- and overall it turned out better than we were expecting when you think about 6 less days and the economy and especially some of the weather in parts of the countries.
But overall we felt pretty good about it prepared goods.
Go ahead Mike.
Prepared foods continue to be a growing section of our business for us so we're committing more and more space and better products all the time to those types of departments and items.
So I wouldn't say there's anything really unusual when it comes to prepared food.
All right.
And finally can you give us an update on sales trends thus far into the first quarter? Obviously it's very early in the quarter.
Right now we would be a little bit better than the high side of the range but it's still very early and we believe the weather has been a positive so far.
As we've mentioned as Mike mentioned in the prepared remarks when you look at the year as a whole we expect inflation to be reasonably modest throughout the whole year.
But so far so good.
And your next question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You did mention the innovation in digital on the YOU Tech acquisition.
So can you actually maybe describe some of the synergies that come from that acquisition what they are maybe bringing to the table that you didn't have already and just the contribution you're expecting there over the next call it 5 years? Well I'm not really so sure I can comment on synergies but we do like what YOU Tech brings to us in terms of the technology and our ability to serve up coupons for our customers in a really meaningful way.
And you couple that with dunnhumby and we think that this really gives us a great platform to communicate better with our customer and provide them both technology and the coupons that they're looking for today.
Because a customer can redeem coupons simply by taking their loyalty card into the store and scanning it and they're receiving the things they want most and getting discounts on those items.
Research Division</strong> When I said synergies I guess I meant qualitatively.
And I guess the follow-up would be as you look at developing this yourself versus making this acquisition is this just the way to jumpstart moving to maybe even integrating some of the customized coupons to the customer? Yes well it certainly helped us move faster.
And the relationship with YOU Technology has moved us along a lot quicker than we probably would've done on our own.
Yes there's multiple levels to it Stephen.
When you talk about customized coupons today all of the digital coupons that are out there there's a sort feature on The Kroger app that allows you to sort those coupons based on the relevance to you of how you shop and what you buy.
So rather than having to search through all the coupons that might be attractive the app basically does that for you based on how you actually buy product.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I have a quick follow-up to I think it was Ken's question.
And you had mentioned last quarter that you would expect the margin on natural organic items to converge over time with conventional.
And as I think initially it may have been viewed as maybe reduction in margin on those items but given the consolidation in the space and your reallocation of the natural organic to be a little bit greater versus the center store is there any reason to see the margin maybe even go up on the conventional items over time? It's a good question.
I think it's pretty hard to say.
We would not expect that as a general rule and we're really focused on figuring out ways to give the customer better and better deal.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So Cerberus is one of the parties reportedly looking at Safeway.
If you look at their behavior after their acquisition of the Supervalu banners would you say they were more or less disciplined on price? And how is their behavior in the marketplace as a competitor after the move there? Obviously in terms of a lot of specifics we won't be able to give you that.
But we look at Cerberus and Albertsons as a very good competitor and we're really focused on what does our customer want and then how do we get better about delivering against that.
They're a good competitor but there's a lot of good competitors out there.
So probably a little more focused on the basics every day but I wouldn't say it's appreciable different.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you didn't see any C-change in pricing strategy or anything like that as they shifted there? No not to the extent that you would think.
It was a completely different person before.
They do a better job on the basics.
They also will consolidate stores.
They ended up selling off some stores things like that but it's -- every transaction is different.
And your next question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking at cash flow for 2014 can you tell us after the Harris Teeter acquisition whether or not you expect working capital to be either a use or a source of cash? And can you give us kind of an order of magnitude? Yes we continue to do a really good job on our working capital usage.
If you look at the consolidated balance sheet the way we look at it and it's the balance sheet with Harris Teeter combined into it.
We had just about $75 million or $80 million reduction in working capital overall for the year and we still have plans in place of things that we think could continue to improve that.
We wouldn't budget in dramatic improvements and have that in expectation of as a source of cash but we would expect to have some benefit from it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I think you also indicated that you expect to contribute about $250 million to the multiemployer pension plans this year and I assume that includes Harris Teeter.
Can you confirm that? And can you tell us if there are multiemployer pension -- I guess obligations were materially larger than your overall obligations? Harris Teeter is not a party or not a member of any of the multiemployer funds.
They're 100% employee choice.
So I guess that would be total company the contributions but none of it has reflected the result of the merger with Harris Teeter.
And your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mike my question for you is on CapEx.
I don't think it was asked.
But your guidance Mike looks like it calls for about I don't know maybe a $600 million increase in CapEx.
I think Harris Teeter based on what they've shown historically could be a couple hundred of that.
And you know what obviously your longer-term guidance was an additional $200 million a year.
So could you just kind of help us understand where the increase in CapEx is coming from? Sure.
If you go back to our December call we were projecting a point estimate of $2.4 billion for this year.
We came in at $2.3 billion.
Some of that is just a little delay on some projects that caused it to be a little behind where we expect it.
We would expect that catch-up to happen in 2014.
So if you think about 2014 going off of a $2.4 billion base the $200 million increase that we would've expected on an annual basis would get you to $2.6 billion.
And then adding in the activity for Harris Teeter which will probably be a little higher than the number you used may continue to have some attractive opportunities and their own forecast would have had their CapEx continuing to grow because they were growing their company.
That's really how we got the build up to $2.8 billion to $3 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we think about sort of beyond this maybe like '15 I -- we probably shouldn't throw $200 million on top of '14 number because of the catch-up I guess is how to think about it.
It's a little early to give 2015 guidance but for planning purposes at this point I would be thinking about another $200 million internally.
And Ed the thing we're really focused on and Mike mentioned it in his prepared comments is the incremental capital we're spending what returns are we getting for that and what's our ability to execute at that higher level because obviously it creates jobs and we have to find associates to staff those stores and run those stores.
And as long as we're feeling good about being able to help develop our associates to run the stores and their performance continues to be strong we would continue to expect to continue to increase capital.
And as we said we're coming close to picking a market to go into organically which will take some capital as well.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that Mike and Rodney when you think about a new market what are the dynamics that you're really sort of looking for to make that decision in terms of where you ultimately go? Well we look at a wide range of topics including the competitive landscape.
We look at where the market may be situated compared to our existing infrastructure.
It would be very nice if it winds up being a market that our current logistics and manufacturing systems can supply product to them again the dynamics of the market not just the competitive landscape but the growth that you see in a potential market.
And then some customer research of what it is the customer wants from a grocery retailer and how we have been able to perform against that over time in the markets where we already operate.
So it's a very long list of things.
Those would be amongst the bigger.
There are no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Rodney McMullen for closing remarks.
Thanks Glenn.
Before we end the call I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
First I'd like to welcome our Harris Teeter associates to The Kroger family.
We couldn't be happier.
I'd also like to thank our associates for your hard work in connection with our customers.
We finished 2013 strong because of your hard work to provide friendly service and fresh products to every customer every time every day.
You also helped keep costs under control so we can reinvest the savings in things that matter most to our customers.
They are taking note of your efforts and giving us credit for making a difference.
Special thanks to each and every one of you for all you do for our customers and each other.
This week we will host our third annual associate recognition event in Cincinnati.
Our 33 associate honorees come from across the company including our retail divisions fee stores manufacturing and logistics facilities Fred Meyer Jewelry the Little Clinic and general office.
They will be recognized during this 2-day event for their friendly service strong leadership dedication to their community and courage in the fight against cancer.
Finally I'd like to say thank you to our Chairman Dave Dillon for his leadership and the powerful foundation he and our team have put in place.
I am humbled to be serving as your CEO and excited to work with our outstanding leadership team.
We're not done serving our customers growing our business and performing for shareholders.
Indeed we're just getting started.
That completes our call for today.
Thanks for joining us and thank you for all you do to partner with Kroger.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Kroger Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today’s discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our first quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Rodney McMullen Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger’s first quarter 2014 results are Mike Ellis Kroger’s President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger delivered an outstanding first quarter.
It is a great start to what we believe will be an another exceptional year.
Our associates continue to enhance our connection with all customers and achieve key performance measures which are allowing us to achieve our growth strategy.
We also achieved our 42nd consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales; exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four quarter basis; maintained a steady return on invested capital while increasing capital investment.
We are achieving synergies from our merger with Harris Teeter.
Both Mikes will have more to say about this in a few minutes.
And we returned over $1 billion in cash back to our shareholders this quarter through our buyback program.
The staying power of our Customer 1st Strategy and our accelerated growth plan are generating strong momentum.
We continue to lower our costs of doing business and to invest those savings both for today’s customers and for future growth.
Our strong first quarter results set us up to deliver 12% to 15% net earnings per share growth rate for the year partly due to the benefit of Harris Teeter compared to our long-term growth rate of 8% to 11% plus the dividend in both cases.
I am also pleased to report that we continue to take meaningful steps to restructure and help secure our associates’ pension obligations for the future.
Through two innovative agreements we plan to move nearly 2 000 associates and retirees to more stable pension plans and 350 associates to a Kroger-sponsored 401(k) plan with a match.
We intend to continue looking for opportunities to leverage our strong financial flexibility to safeguard our associates’ benefits.
We are always looking for opportunities that are good for our associates good for Kroger and good for our shareholders.
From an economy and customer shopping behavior we are seeing strong positive indicators in shopping behavior.
Our customers have exhibited less cautious spending behavior for example.
Consistent with the rise in Consumer Confidence Index in May our own customer research tells us that more customers perceive the economy to be in recovery.
While it is obviously welcome news the recovery remains fragile especially for customers on a budget.
We intend to keep delivering value and improving our connection with customers across the entire spectrum.
Whether through our popular fuel rewards program our Simple Truth offerings or a more convenient shopping experience Kroger is uniquely positioned to deliver on this promise in any economic environment.
And against this backdrop and uneven economic recovery our team’s excellent first quarter performance stands out in even greater contrast.
Now I will turn it over to Mike Ellis to outline our operational performance.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to congratulate the entire Kroger team for executing our Customer 1st Strategy with precision in the first quarter which is driving growth and improving our perception in the eyes of our customers.
We are connecting better with our customers showing them we care and making sure they have a great shopping experience every time.
Keeping cost down allowed us to invest strategically and increase customer loyalty.
During the quarter we grew our number of loyal households at a much faster rate than total household growth which also was up for the quarter.
We saw inflation increase in the grocery category during the quarter.
This combined with higher inflation in meat produce and pharmacy has caused us to adjust our view of inflation for the year.
We estimate inflation excluding pharmacy was 1.8% in the first quarter and 2.1% with pharmacy included.
We expect it to be higher than originally anticipated for the rest of the year as well.
Even with higher inflation we saw strong tonnage growth during the first quarter.
I will jump to Harris Teeter.
Our merger with Harris Teeter is going extremely well.
We are spending time with Harris Teeter and learning a lot about how they connect with customers.
Their store standards and fresh foods are world-class.
And our cultures are a great fit which makes our integration work rather easy.
We are excited by what we are learning about Harris Teeter’s online ordering and store pickup model.
It’s a program with a lot of promise.
A key driver of sustainable growth is Customer 1st Innovation.
Each quarter we are highlighting one or more of our innovations that are improving our connection with customers and growing our market share.
This quarter I will highlight some of the new exciting work of our Corporate Brands and Kroger Technology teams.
In Corporate Brands a strategic differentiator for Kroger’s Corporate Brands portfolio is our multi-tier offering.
It allows us to offer the right price points and product experiences for everyone.
In the first quarter we introduced new branding and packaging for our Value products the good tier of our good better best program.
The new design calls out to customers with attractive uplifting packaging and the response so far has been really terrific.
For fresh products we have replaced Kroger Value with Heritage Farm.
The name better reflects the inherent quality of the brand and we are already seeing positive acceptance from our customers.
Corporate Brands had a solid first quarter accelerating company sales growth and representing approximately 26.2% of total units sold and 24.5% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
Kroger Technology is our team of technology innovators and inventors.
They are implementing a fundamental foundational technology that we can leverage to create the Internet of Things in the retail environment.
One tangible example of this is real-time temperature monitoring in our supermarkets.
Today temperature checks are performed manually by our associates.
But by using interactive sensors that are connected through an in-store network we can better ensure the freshest foods by allowing for more frequent real-time temperature checks of meat produce deli and frozen food products.
And we love these kinds of initiatives because they save money and they free up time for our associates to engage with customers.
And most importantly this technology will help improve our already vigorous food safety efforts.
We plan to continue leading the adoption of the Internet of Things in our stores.
Now I will give a brief update on labor negotiations – labor relations.
We recently agreed to new contracts in both Atlanta and Southern California as well as for non-food associates in Portland Oregon.
We are currently negotiating contracts with the UFCW for store associates in Cincinnati New Mexico Toledo and parts of California and an agreement with the Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger’s financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective knowing Kroger’s business and profitability which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger’s financial results and update our guidance for 2014.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
We exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
Thanks to our associates performing to deliver growth.
We continue to implement our long-term growth strategy which includes targeting capital to grow our business in new and existing markets; leveraging customer insights to solve varied customer needs through both traditional and digital channels; and continuing to deliver shareholder value through our share buyback program and dividend.
When we outlined our accelerated growth strategy at our October 2012 Investor Conference we also identified the key performance targets for shareholders to measure our progress.
I’d like to spend a few minutes discussing the results in each metric.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
We are pleased with our first quarter ID sales growth of 4.6%.
This strong performance was supported by ID sales growth in every department and every supermarket division.
We continue to see outstanding double-digit identical sales growth in our natural foods department.
Our produce and general merchandise departments also posted strong ID sales growth and Kroger’s pharmacy department continued its strong performance.
Rolling four quarters FIFO operating margin on a 52-week basis and excluding fuel and the pension agreements increased by 12 basis points.
This exceeded our commitment to grow the rate slightly over time on a rolling four quarters basis.
Until we have Harris Teeter in both the current and base years the expected increase will be higher than our long-term guidance which is slightly expanding.
Over time we expect our FIFO operating margin growth excluding fuel to return to slightly expanding on a rolling four quarters basis.
The third target metric is return on invested capital.
We reported a return on invested capital on a 52-week rolling four quarters basis of 13.5% which is consistent with ROIC during the same period last year.
As we increased capital investments it will be more difficult to grow ROIC in the near-term.
However as these investments mature we expect them to be accretive to ROIC.
As Mike and Rodney have already said and our integration with Harris Teeter is well underway and we are achieving synergies in multiple fronts.
One great example was combining insurance programs which has reduced our annual premiums by $6 million already.
Now I will share our first quarter 2014 results in more detail.
Please note that this is the first period that includes Harris Teeter in Kroger’s statement of operations.
Year-over-year percentage comparisons are affected as a result.
In the first quarter our net earnings totaled $501 million or $0.98 per diluted share.
This includes charges related to the restructuring of certain pension obligations to help stabilize associates’ future benefits as described in yesterday’s press release.
Excluding the effect of these charges Kroger’s adjusted net earnings were $557 million or $1.09 per diluted share for the first quarter.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $481 million or $0.92 per diluted share.
As Mike Ellis said we are seeing higher inflation than anticipated.
We recorded a $28 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $17 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
We are increasing our LIFO estimate for the year to $90 million.
Our previous LIFO guidance for the fiscal year was a charge of $55 million.
This affects the year by about $0.04.
FIFO gross margin increased 1 basis point from the same period last year excluding retail fuel operations.
Strong identical sales and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses as a rate of sales in the first quarter.
Operating general and administrative costs plus the rent and depreciation excluding retail fuel operations and pension agreements declined 9 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year’s first quarter.
Now for retail fuel operations.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the first quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.131 compared to $0.116 in the same quarter last year.
Our long-term financial strategy continues to be to maintain our current investment grade rating repurchase shares have an increasing dividend and fund increasing capital investments.
Kroger remains committed to achieving a 2 to 2.2 net total debt to EBITDA ratio by mid-to-late 2015.
Kroger took on debt to finance the Harris Teeter merger and realized no incremental EBITDA in fiscal 2013 because the transaction closed late in the fiscal year.
This has a material effect on the company’s net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio which is 2.42 times compared to 1.85 during the same period last year.
As we get a full year of Harris Teeter EBITDA in the calculation we expect to be closer to 2.2 times by the end of the year.
Kroger’s net total debt is $11.3 billion an increase of $3.4 billion from a year ago.
This is a result of the debt related to the Harris Teeter transaction and Kroger’s share repurchase activity.
Kroger’s strong financial position has allowed the company to return more than $1.9 billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the first quarter Kroger repurchased 25.7 million common shares for a total investment of $1.1 billion.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $709 million for the first quarter compared to $640 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect capital investments to be in the $2.8 billion to $3.0 billion range including Harris Teeter for fiscal 2014.
Now I’d like to update our growth objectives for fiscal 2014.
Based on our strong first quarter results we raised and narrowed our adjusted net earnings guidance to a range of $3.19 to $3.27 per diluted share for fiscal 2014.
The original guidance was $3.14 to $3.25 per diluted share.
The company’s long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate guidance remains at 8% to 11%.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend expected to increase over time.
We raised our identical supermarket sales growth guidance excluding fuel to 3% to 4% for fiscal 2014 including Harris Teeter.
The original guidance was 2.5% to 3.5%.
And now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
What a terrific start to our year.
Our merger with Harris Teeter is going exceptionally well.
We are learning a lot from Harris Teeter associates and our business is performing well.
And we are even more excited about Harris Teeter’s people and the opportunities today than we were when we first merged.
Across our company our associates’ remarkably consistent execution continues to generate consistently remarkable results for our shareholders.
We will continue building on this resilient foundation to grow aggressively into the future.
And now we look forward to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
Hey guys.
So a couple of things.
Obviously it’s a little hard to tell with Harris Teeter mixed into the numbers but if I try to back that out and think about ex-fuel gross margin decline it looks about what it’s been running or maybe just slightly higher than it’s been running? And I ask that because I am curious what you see with regard to inflation today is that being passed along fairly quickly or given your value position you are delaying some of that for weeks or maybe even months? Good morning John.
Yes it’s been on – breaking it out you would be correct if without Harris Teeter the trends would be very similar to what they have been running.
From an inflation standpoint we pass it along some of it in terms of obviously how is the competitive environment going and also the inflation that we think is just a seasonal type inflation or something that’s longer term.
And I would say in our ability to pass it through it’s pretty much similar to what it’s been running.
And I don’t know Mike or Mike anything you want to add to that? No.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up when I think about your price investments right and I don’t know what inning we are in but how do you think about it now in terms of investing by category right.
So I know you made investments in natural foods.
Are there more categories where you need that type of work it doesn’t look like there is or is it solely items? And then how do you think about private label price investments in private label and when you think about that do you look at the private label spread versus the brand or do you actually go out and look at what other retailers are retailing their private label products at? Well the first question on overall price investment we are continuing to look at the markets we do business in and deciding where we want to be positioned.
Also we look at categories within the store and try to determine where we want to be priced relative to competition or the market but private label there are several ways to look at private label pricing one would be – it would be how it’s related to the branded product.
And in some cases it might be priced with the competition in a way that keeps us on our pricing strategy and keeps us relevant.
And it really depends upon the item and the market.
But do you think we are talking about items now most of your category adjustments have been made or you disagree with that? We have been through most categories and made some sort of adjustments over the last several years in pricing but we were still looking at pricing overall and where we positioned it and making decisions on where we want to be.
Okay thanks.
Thanks John.
And the next question will come from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Hey thanks for the question.
Forgive me if you mentioned this can you estimate even if it’s just a rough number what weathers tailwind was on your comps in 1Q? It’s really tough.
If you look at the cadence of comps during the first quarter the first four weeks of the quarter were a little bit stronger than the rest of the quarter but not remarkably high.
And the second third and fourth periods the second and third were affected by the Easter shift.
If you kind of normalize Easter between the two periods they were very very close to one another.
So I don’t think there was a huge bump in the first quarter as a result of whether it certainly helped but it’s not what made the 4.6% strong the second third and fourth on a combined basis certainly contributed to the results as well.
Okay.
And then as we look at your comps into 2Q so any particular headwinds or tailwinds we should be thinking about just a little more color on how things are progressing so far this quarter just curious on those lines? Yes.
We wouldn’t see anything unusual versus what it’s been running.
And we would continue to be slightly above our guidance range in terms of so far this quarter.
And it’s very similar to the first quarter.
One last quick one it’s a bit tricky because of the different days in the quarter in Harris Teeter I just want to make sure your D&amp;A was up 12% year-on-year your interest expense was up 14% year-on-year are these roughly the growth rates we should be modeling for the rest of the year on a year-on-year basis? For the year on a year-on-year basis yes they will be in that kind of the range because of the Harris Teeter depreciation as well as the debt we took on for Harris Teeter.
And then obviously next year we will return to more normal level.
The other one that’s a little different than what we have historically reported is ramp as a rate of sales because the large majority of the Harris Teeter stores are at least not owned like ours.
So that affects that line as well and we break that line out separately.
Great thanks very much.
Thanks Ken.
And the next question will come from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I just wanted to delve a little bit more into the upside in the quarter so you beat the high end of your guidance I think by about a few pennies was that all driven by sales upside or are there other things in play? The sales piece would be by far the biggest driver of the upside.
Okay.
Yes.
And just to clarify we don’t give quarterly guidance so we only give an annual guidance.
So the only thing you can compare to is what the Street expectations were.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned that you are seeing better signs of a consumer this quarter what are you seeing more in some of your discretionary areas of the business? Well we have really seen – I mean if you look it’s continuing a good solid trend.
It’s always hard to define what’s discretionary but certainly if you look at what areas people cutback on first we continue to see strong growth on that across the board.
I don’t know Mike anything you want to add to that? No.
That pretty much sums it up.
There has been some mixed changes in what people are buying it looks like but overall it’s been strong all across the board.
Okay thank you and good luck.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Ed Kelly of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
This is actually Lauren Wood on for Ed.
Just a quick question.
Can you remind us what percent of your stores have heavier mix of natural and organic selection and where that number could potentially go to? And then also if you see a comp lift when you add – when you sort of bulk up that offering in your store? Well I don’t know if there is any particular area that has a higher mix of natural foods.
We tend to – it’s a strategy for the company to improve our natural foods offering across the country.
So any of our new stores or remodels we try to be more aggressive on natural foods positioning and the amount of products we carry but – so it’s pretty much throughout the country.
And it is a – it’s definitely a strategy of ours and it’s really connecting both customers right now.
And it’s not always pretty much every store has some offering of natural and organic products but we are finding it as much a lifestyle decision as it is a demographic driven topic.
And people of all demographics are choosing a healthier lifestyle.
So we actually have the product and really I can’t think of stores I go into that don’t have some.
Now the size of the store can dictate how much you have but it’s a broad appeal product.
Okay.
And then just a quick one can you update us on your total MEPP liability? I don’t remember what it is off the top of my head.
It was in our 10-K and the MD&amp;A.
I don’t want to guess the number because I will be guessing wrong.
You can follow-up with Cindy and I after the call.
Okay.
Thanks for taking our questions.
It was in the MD&amp;A and our 10-K.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I had a housekeeping item first before I got into my bigger question.
The ROIC calculation you guys ran in the report it seems like and maybe I am wrong but basically Harris Teeter is reflected in the denominator but the numerator is not pro forma or my – or is it? Okay.
So you are correct Scott.
And you also noticed that we went to one decimal place instead of two decimal places.
So the way that works it’s rolling four quarters calculations.
So your denominator becomes the average assets at the beginning or the end of the year.
So you effectively have half of Harris Teeter’s assets in there because of that averaging but only one quarter of their EBITDA.
We will get more and more of their assets and more and more of their EBITDA as we go throughout the year.
So we did in a couple of ways.
If you look at it just the way this calculation is it was about a 2 basis points down.
If you pro forma Harris Teeter in there for the whole timeframe it was about 2 basis points up.
So we just decided that rather than try to confuse it we are going to call it the 13.5 until the end of the year and then we will go back to two decimal places I would think.
Okay perfect.
Thank you for that clarification.
So then the second question is actually more of a strategy question.
I mean you look at the broader food landscape here and I think you guys just outcomped Whole Foods if I am not wrong about that but on the other side of the equation you are clearly outcomping Wal-Mart.
You have a format now and probably the best high-low operator out there you got big data.
When do we – and you just bought Harris Teeter but when do you put this more aggressively on the road I think you are in 34 states now when does Kroger really start to drive even more growth? I mean clearly you are taking enormous market share where you are either through more M&amp;A or more aggressively venturing into places you are not? Scott as you know if you look at our fill-in markets that is the first part of that and it’s really if we look at the returns from that the higher our market share the higher our ROIC.
So that’s really the first phase of that is we are increasingly getting aggressive on fill-in markets.
And that’s we are very pleased with the early result.
In terms of new markets by merging with Harris Teeter we really view that is going into several new markets.
And as I mentioned in the call one of the things that we are really excited about is the market share opportunity growth opportunities that Harris Teeter has.
And we will aggressively partner and support growing in several of those markets as well.
So from our perspective that is going on the road with it in the context of where we think we see the highest return with the capital that we have allocated.
Maybe a chance we get a bump in the growth rate that you have out there 8% to 11% I think you have been exceeding now for a while? We are not even two years in the 8% to 11% Scott.
Let us get comfortable and used to this one for a little bit.
But as you know the key to our growth rate is being sales led and growing our business and then continuing to execute against our model.
So I agree with Mike give us a little time but that’s really how we are trying to drive to grow our business.
It’s one thing to announce investments in October ‘12.
It’s another thing to begin making those.
And then it’s another thing again for them to come out of the ground and start generating sales and EBITDA.
So there is a lag from when you make the announcement until you get there.
Keep in mind our share buyback in the first quarter is very strong.
That was contemplated in our guidance.
And we told everybody in October ‘12 for the first couple of three years a third to half of our growth was going to come from share buyback until our investments started to mature.
So we will have to wait for that tipping point happen Scott and see where we are at that point in time.
Alright guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Scott.
And next we have a question from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Just on the comps looking at the numbers that Harris Teeter reported last year it looks like I mean they actually had some pretty decent comps throughout last year right up until their third quarter.
So I am kind of wondering if you could give some color on what the impact for Harris Teeter was on your comps? Yes.
We won’t give specifics.
Obviously when we talked in the fourth quarter we said we would – we gave guidance with Harris Teeter in it.
We were pleased with where Harris Teeter’s numbers was.
It was consistent with the budget and that’s true for EBITDA as well but I won’t give specifics in terms of how it affected the overall total Kroger number other than it wasn’t much.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I know you obviously gave color on your inflation in the current quarter what are your expectations on inflation for the whole year or the full year? Yes.
We are kind of expecting in the range where we saw in the first quarter to hold true for the year.
I figured inflation was going to come back up again so actually flipped to a page in our – you have seen me carry my blue book around in the conferences Karen.
Yes.
If you look at some interesting things and without fuel and pharmacy last year’s inflation cadence was 1.7 1.6 1.5 and 0.8.
And everybody is concerned about inflation right now in our first quarter and that same metric was 1.8.
Grocery inflation in this year’s first quarter was actually lower than grocery inflation in last year’s first quarter.
And pharmacy and meat and produce are basically in the same range.
So this isn’t a world we have lived in and it’s not a huge shift really from where we were about the same time last year.
We are comfortable managing the business and in an inflationary environment like we have today and think we are going to see this continue there are some grain prices out there that are favorable.
Milk looks like it’s peaked and it’s going to start to come down a little bit which will help the grocery inflation index because that’s where we classify milk and we talk about inflation.
So we think it’s going to be pretty comparable to where it is today.
The blue book came in handy.
Thanks.
Thanks for that color.
This is why I carry it.
And then just the last question it looks obviously you gave your dollar amounts at a buyback but it looks like you are done pretty much done with your authorization.
So any comments on that? We did have our expectation and our guidance for the year contemplated a front end buyback program.
It is somewhat unusual first to go without any kind of an authorization.
What I would say is unless there is I wouldn’t expect significant incremental buyback activity for the rest of the year.
Great that’s helpful.
And it’s really left up to our board on the approval.
Right.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks Karen.
And the next question is from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
I am going to probably talk about something a little bit bigger picture.
I was very intrigued by the commentary about pension and specifically that you had some employees a small number but some employees shift to a 401(k) plan with matching and also that you moved a much larger group of employees to a different plan could you just talk a little bit about kind of what the discussions were? Why would somebody move away from a defined benefit plan and what do you think the prospects are for other people recognizing the value of 401(k)? Yes.
There were clearly a couple of different moves here Meredith both of which came together in the same quarter.
The folks in the Pacific Northwest there were actually two separate moves with those folks.
They are continuing their accrued liability moved into the consolidated UFCW plan that we established a couple of years ago.
So we took their historical liability that they have already earned into that company managed UFCW plan.
Their future benefits are being accrued in the sound plan and it’s not a sound plan from the financial standpoint although it’s very well funded.
It’s called the sound fund in the Pacific Northwest.
So that was a group of retail associates.
The second move was a group of King Soopers pharmacists who happen to be unionized.
Same thing we moved their obligation and it was actually through the negotiating process with them where they have the desire to go into our 401(k) plan and be able to manage their investments themselves and accrue those dollars and move them around as they see fit.
And it was – that one was really associate-driven at the negotiating table.
I will tell you we have some high level talent dedicated to this effort.
In fact if you remember a year or so ago we moved Scott Henderson who was our Treasurer and he spends a good chunk of his time when he manages our entire pension investment program both of the – all three of the K plan the company plan and the UFCW plan as well as spends a lot of time with our labor negotiators trying to do this.
Our view is we are trying to be proactive on this front not reactive.
And we think by being proactive it’s the best thing for our associates not only for the pension they have already earned but for the pension that they would expect to earn going forward.
And Scott and Mike working with our labor negotiators and the union they understand the opportunity and need for this.
And this really does improve the quality of the benefits our associates have and improves the security of their ultimate benefit.
So it’s one of those things where the union is also working with us on these but it’s a lot of work and a lot of effort.
It happens slowly.
And I guess it’s fair to say that repeating what you did with the pharmacists maybe unusual because they are a unique group of employees? Perhaps.
You never know what’s going to happen in the negotiation.
All I know is the unions and Kroger both have the desire to continue conversations to try to come up with creative solutions to help secure the benefits they have already earned and give them a decent benefit approval going forward as well.
That’s great.
And then I am going to just switch gears talking about fuels you had – it looks like it was pretty attractive margin on fuel this quarter and I assume that’s because prices were coming flat or coming down.
Is that fair to say and kind of what’s your outlook if you can have an outlook about fuel prices for the rest of the year? And also did it contribute to earnings per share in any kind of a meaningful way? What we always say about fuel is one thing we will guarantee and that is it will be volatile.
It was volatile inside the quarter.
There were days and weeks where we were not as thrilled with our fuel results.
And then there were days and weeks where we are very thrilled with our fuel results.
Relative to the retail price per fuel in quarter one on a total company basis fuel supermarkets and convenient stores combined the average retail price per gallon last year was 3.50 to 4 and this year was 3.45 to 6.
So it was actually a little bit lower on a combined basis between the two years.
And the cost was actually about the same amount maybe just a touch amount lower as well.
So it’s – and we had very very strong gallon growth almost 6% gallon growth.
It was – it helped the quarter but it wasn’t the driver for the quarter by no means.
And as you know we always budget fuel margins kind of the same this year as the prior year.
And over time that always seems to come out pretty close to right.
Along the way there is as Mike mentioned quite a bit of volatility.
Right.
And then I am just going to fill in one more quick question I think I just didn’t hear what was said about pharmacy and what pharmacy maybe to comps and anything else about pharmacy profitability I don’t know if you made a comment some stuff broke up when I was listening to it? Yes.
I made a comment when I spoke about ID sales for the quarter that they continued their strong performance both from a script count and the sales count sales basis.
So good ID sales growth in dollars and scripts.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Meredith.
And next question we have a question from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Wanted to ask a one follow-up on the inflation questions that you have been getting with meat rising really quite rapidly the last couple of months and the quarter coming out okay on gross margin and you guys saying your survey works looks like your customers are loosening up their pocket books.
Are you seeing a lot less change in behavior in terms of trading down in proteins and into lower quality meats and stuff like that? And well that’s really the question.
So it’s kind of a pass-through and are you able to pass it through in a sort of more reasonable way than you would one or two years earlier than when that type of thing happened? And how is the consumer reacting to that? If you look at meat specifically you can clearly see behavior changes as prices increase.
So people buying more cube steaks or buying more hamburger those kind of things you can clearly see.
The comment on the customer overall is very broadly in terms of if you look at what they are doing in total we feel very good about and we like what we are seeing in terms of the customer in total being willing to spend a little bit more.
Okay.
And I wanted to ask just a follow-up on Harris Teeter I know you guys do a lot of survey work with customers and Harris Teeter has a pretty rich loyalty card as well? Have you been able to do any survey work with their customers? And could you reveal what it is you might have heard from them in terms of maybe in terms of the four Ts that you guys go to market with or that kind of thing? I know at a conference recently you said perishable pricing was the focus for example? Yes.
If you look at obviously Harris Teeter has done customer research for years and before in a couple of markets we would have our customer research on Harris Teeter just because they were somebody else in the market.
Harris Teeter scores incredibly strong on people and products and freshness of products.
So when you look at produce meat deli department they score very well and their associates are very friendly.
And that’s really their strong suit.
And we would expect when we start doing the combined research that that’s consistent with the research Harris Teeter has done before we would expect to see the same.
And were they scoring well let’s say in some of that merchandising and maybe customer interaction as well is that something where that can be integrated into all or parts of Kroger or is it just too much of a task for given the size differential between the two companies? Mike Ellis on this prepared comments talked about a little bit.
I can tell you that Mike Ellis and the operators are spending quite a bit of time trying to understand exactly how Harris Teeter does that.
And Mike you are in the middle of all that.
Well it’s really been fun to have someone who was a competitor that you admire.
And now you can actually see what they do how they do it but as Rodney mentioned they have been really strong on some of the matrix better than us in several markets.
And so to learn how they do what they do has been actually really a lot of fun and we are integrating some of that into some of our operations today throughout Kroger.
I look forward to hearing more about that.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
And our next question is from Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
I guess turning back to the guidance given the big buyback upfront it looks like the year seems a bit of a change in the margin on a standalone basis even when factoring in the high LIFO charge.
I know you don’t like to get into this much but can you talk qualitatively about your underlying gross margin given the OG&amp;A assumptions in the back half and any unusual shift we should be expecting? Yes.
I wouldn’t – I won’t get that granular.
The closest I will come is we did make comments about operating profit and as we get a full year of Harris Teeter into the numbers we would expect our operating profit margin to not be the 12 basis point rolling four quarters increase we had in the first quarter but as get a full year of them in we would expect it to come closer to the slight increase that we project overall.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I think the other thing that I guess Kroger has been doing it’s a little bit different than other areas and retail is moving towards a few of the larger format stores marketplace stores.
As you look at general merchandise which has been shifting online and you learn from click and collect at Harris Teeter how are you thinking about the opportunity to offer general merchandise at a broader group of stores with the web and what are the implications for sales per square foot? Well all of our large stores have some selection of general merchandise including apparel and all of our future plans and remodels that we are working on.
And we are really pleased with the results pleased with sales per square foot and pleased with customers’ reaction to the product offering.
So it is part of our strategy going forward.
And for the smaller stores is there an ability right now to actually have click and collect on general merchandise? Not today.
Would it take so much? We would expect to take the Harris Teeter click and collect as Mike mentioned other – to do it in an another market.
We like what we are seeing there.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Best of luck.
Thanks Stephen.
And our next question is from Jason DeRise of UBS.
Hi it’s Jason DeRise.
Wanted to ask on natural foods obviously growing double-digits can you share what it contributed to the 4.6% comp? We really wouldn’t get into that level of detail in terms of how much of the 4.6% is driven by that.
Mike did mention that all departments were positive identicals.
All departments and all geographies.
Yes.
So it’s broad-based.
So that isn’t the thing that’s driving it but obviously a nice growth.
And when you look at your customer data do you think that this is a customer who is just entering the category in a more meaningful way now that you are offering it or do you think that you are perhaps this is sales that previously were outside of Kroger at maybe a specialty store now that shopper is deciding to that trip at Kroger solely? I think it’s all the above.
There has been lower prices in lot of areas in natural foods so it’s I think to bring new customers to the category but certainly people are more health conscious for their family and the things that they consume.
So lot of our customer insights are driving lot of the decisions on what we carry and what we put into our stores.
And there are customers is shouting that this is something they are really interested in.
So it’s a big focus by us – for us.
I think it is maybe a year or two ago there was a lot of talk about how Kroger only has half of their customers grocery spend.
How has that trended since the efforts in natural foods and other categories to try to win more of that share? And Jason it’s a great question and it’s one that if you could – if you were in the room you would see us smiling at each other because it’s pretty similar to what it was because the fortunate part we keep adding new customers.
So if you look at the loyal shoppers that have been loyal for a while we continue that 50% would probably be more like 70% to 75% but fortunately we keep growing our customers.
So you have new loyal customers coming in.
So when you look at the blend of existing loyals and new loyals it’s still around the 50%.
Yes.
If you look at ID loyal customers it will be much higher than 50% but the good news is we keep adding people that become loyal below the 50%.
So it dilutes the total back down.
Obviously natural foods helps on that but it’s really across the whole store that we are picking up that customer including the fresh departments produce meat deli bakery seafood.
Okay great.
And I guess I just wanted to see if I can put this in there on Harris Teeter would you quantify just the EPS accretion for the quarter just so that we can sanity check the original guidance on that? You should assume that our original guidance our updated guidance would have the same base assumptions for the Harris Teeter contributions to the year.
I did mention that Harris Teeter is performing consistent a little bit better but not a lot in terms of the analysis that we used when we are working on the merger.
So we are pleased with where they are tracking and they would be consistent with what we shared with them.
We are right on track with what our expectations were.
I mean there has been in the press I guess that part of it’s your press but that the Harris Teeter started dropping prices similar type of press releases that you would see coming out of other Kroger banners on this.
And so that’s I guess is there anything you could share about how that’s gone? Is that what’s driven maybe a bit more of the upside the response to that or is that not where the incremental upside has been? Yes.
It’s really very very early in that process.
And what we are doing is the synergies as we accomplish them Harris Teeter is taking that money and giving it back to the customers.
So it’s really given the customer something back from the merger and some of the savings and Mike mentioned insurance for example.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we have a question from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Nice quarter.
Good morning.
Thanks Chuck.
Thanks Chuck.
Looking again at the pension benefit announcements you have made the other day like I’d like to get a better idea on how the cash flows are going to look on this.
You are obviously not going to pay $56 million immediately but at the same time how might that be broken up over the next five years or so as it moves into the funds? And is there a corresponding offset in your hourly contribution of these plans? Couple of questions there.
So the $56 million is the after-tax cash we will have to put in.
And as we said we have up to five years to do that.
We really haven’t decided exactly how we are going to do it.
The King Soopers pharmacist is a smaller part of that total contribution and we actually have longer than five years to do theirs but you should expect some plan over the five years to do it.
What this really does is technically what happened is assets and liabilities came attached to their already earned and accrued benefits.
And that’s what we are shoring up in these plans.
Going forward they will continue to earn benefits.
In the pharmacist case they will get a K plan match.
In the clerk’s – in the Pacific Northwest contract they will continue to earn the benefit going forward and there will be cents per hour accrual for those benefits going forward.
So it won’t reduce that.
So that the $56 million is to shore up the plans and whatever is negotiated going forward is an additional pennies per hour kind of deal? Now what we don’t have to negotiate and we are about funding going forward is any cents prior to make up the $56 million because we will do that separately.
So going forward any portion of an hourly contribution that was there to make up an under funding in the plan obviously we have already negotiated that and walled it off.
So all we have to worry about funding is future benefit accruals not vested benefit accruals that will be separate.
And announcements of this sort are likely to recur but it’s very difficult to forecast when and how frequent is that a fair statement? Predict when and how and it’s one of the reasons we had a disclosure of this kind of activity in our outlook section in the 10-K because that’s why we dedicated some very talented resources to this because we would love to continue to pick off opportunities like this to secure – to help secure the pension benefits of our associates going forward.
And some of these under funded plans get that out of that fund if that fund runs into trouble.
We know our associates are taken care of because we have them in a fund that we are helping manage and we do view that what we have is an obligation to do that for them.
Thank you.
Yes thanks Chuck.
And the next question is from Filippe Goossens of Mitsubishi.
Yes good morning and many thanks for taking my question here.
And (indiscernible) has recently indicated that they had seen a pickup in competitive activity not only obviously in their home markets with the expansion of Albert Heijn stores but also in some U.S.
markets.
Should we read into that that you perhaps have sharpened a little bit your pricing already with Harris Teeter given that they do compete with the Food Lion stores in a number of markets? Yes.
As I mentioned before that is a good assumption but it’s just early in that process.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up if I may.
I may have missed this but following the announcements yesterday have you indicated by how much your multi-employer liability will shrink on the balance sheet? Well that amount we put in the MD&amp;A is not entirely on our balance sheet.
And theoretically it would be reduced by the $56 million once we fund it.
That $56 million will actually now sit as the liability in our balance sheet until we do fund it.
Okay great.
Thanks very much for the color today.
Yes.
Thanks Filippe.
And next we have a question from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just on your comp guidance you clearly raised it first quarter was strong it sounds like second quarter’s running strong as well.
And you talked about a little bit of a less cautious consumer behavior which I don’t think I have heard you guys say for a while and upticking inflation.
So just curious if there is any conservatism in that 3 to 4 kind of outlook for the rest of the year or any other things that we should be thinking about getting back to a 3 to 4 range? The one thing that if you look at last year by quarter the fourth quarter actually was a little better than the trend had been.
It wasn’t driven by weather but it was helped by weather.
And as we start cycling some of those things until you actually cycle them obviously you don’t know where you are.
Now we will always hope that we are a little conservative but until you get there it is our best estimate at this point in time.
Mike or Mike you want to agree completely? I would agree completely also.
Great.
And if I could just add another question on natural foods clearly up strong again.
Just curious as you look at your competition whether it’s discount channel or supermarkets or elsewhere do you see them investing as much as you are in natural product categories? I mean I realize Wal-Mart has announced the Wild Oats line.
We haven’t really seen that show up in stores yet but do you think some others could start to invest more in natural foods as well or what are you seeing versus your competition? Well there is investment.
We are seeing competitive investment in natural foods.
For us we have positioned natural foods in different parts of the store now.
You will find soy milks almond milks in the regular dairy case and things like that.
So we are just trying to answer what the customer wants and have products available at a price that they are willing to pay and in a location that they are happy to find them.
So – but competitively yes we have seen a little bit of move but not much.
Great thanks.
We have time for one more question.
Thanks Kelly.
Thank you.
And that question will come from Kate Wendt of Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
So just actually had a bigger picture question as you look at your overall store base whether you think you will see a net increase in competitive openings against you this year or if it’s consistent you think with last year or maybe offset by closures at weaker chains.
Obviously it doesn’t seem to be affecting your comps this quarter but just curious how you see that playing out this year? It’s a good question.
And you continue to see a lot of people talk about adding square footage in the space.
Some of that square footage is dedicated to what we sell in the side of a different format be it inside of a Dollar General store or a drugstore or something like that.
Wal-Mart is obviously building some smaller neighborhood and kind of markets.
So that’s there.
What kind of gets lost is competitors who are closing stores that I would call versus a small offering inside of another format what I would call a destination store.
So when you have a destination store closing it’s 50 000 or 60 000 square feet and somebody else has added 1 200 square feet that’s really a convenient shop.
It’s a different kind of competitor.
So I think we will continue to see a lot of square footage open up that sells food.
I think overall the destination kind of square footage is probably flat to slightly down.
Got it.
That’s really helpful.
And then just one other quick one I saw that you recently introduced a premium pet food assortment which sounds like it could be a nice incremental comp driver for you guys.
I was wondering how many stores that’s in today and maybe how many you are planning by year end? And then it also sounds like maybe along with that there has been a change in the receptivity of premium pet food brands distributing to the supermarket channel? Yes.
We just recently introduced I am glad you caught that a new line of premium pet foods and it should be in every store in Kroger I would hope that was the plan and sales have started out strong and we are real pleased with it.
Glad you caught that.
I try.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Kate.
Before we end today’s call I’d like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
Earlier this month we introduced the Taste of México event in all our stores.
We hope our associates are enjoying this fun celebration of Mexican food with our customers including in-store sampling creative displays and special activities.
I know I have enjoyed visiting our stores across the country and seeing the creativity passion and enthusiasm from our associates for the Taste of México.
This special event is the first of a series of celebrations of foods of the world in our stores and runs through June 24.
Our associates’ passion for doing good is evident in the way we serve our customers and neighbors in the communities where we live and work everyday.
This month we honor our associates’ efforts in serving our communities and those in need.
We are pleased to recognize in our 2013 Annual Report 28 associates across the company for their outstanding volunteer service as recipients of the Kroger’s 2013 Community Service Award.
These women and men give their time and talent to honor veterans feed the homeless raise money to fight cancer and bring music to mentally-challenged among many other causes.
We are grateful for their commitment.
A big heartfelt thank you to all of our associates who volunteer.
Mike and I are proud of the work you do.
You make a big difference for so many others and the communities we call home.
Thank you.
That completes our call today.
Thanks for joining us.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Kroger Company Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today’s discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our second quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our Web site at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Thank you.
We are hopeful that you can join us for our 2014 investor conference in Cincinnati beginning on the evening of October 28 and ending early afternoon on October 29.
Details will be coming soon and we are looking forward to seeing many of you then.
I will now turn the call over to Rodney McMullen Chief Executive Officer of Kroger.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's second quarter 2014 results are Mike Ellis Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger achieved a strong and balanced second quarter as we improved our connection with customers.
We are also executing our growth plan and delivering on our key performance indicators all of which is fueling strong financial results for our shareholders.
Our second quarter performance highlights Kroger's continued growth momentum.
We continue to deliver on the performance targets we outlined at our October 2012 Investor Conference including positive identical store sales growth slightly expanding rolling four quarters FIFO operating margins excluding fuel and improving return on invested capital.
For the period we achieved our 43rd consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margins without fuel on a rolling four quarter basis.
And we increased our return on invested capital while also increasing capital investment.
Based on our strong quarter results we are raising our net earnings per diluted share guidance and our identical supermarket sales growth guidance for the year.
We expect to deliver a net earnings per diluted share growth of 13% to 15% for fiscal 2014.
As you know this is partially due to the benefit of Harris Teeter.
We expect to return to our long-term growth rate of 8% to 11% plus the dividend in fiscal 2012 -- 2015 sorry.
Thanks Cindy.
And we are not done growing and differentiating to better serve our customers.
We are proud to welcome the incredible Vitacost.com team to the Kroger family.
We are excited about the opportunity the merger creates to transform the customer experience and move Kroger directly into the e-commerce space much faster than we could have done on our own.
The merger closed last month and our teams are hard at work developing our combined business plan.
Mike Ellis will have more to say about Vitacost in a few minutes.
Our merger with Harris Teeter is going very well and we are learning a lot from each other and we can't say enough great things about our Harris Teeter associates.
We continue to see positive indicators in customer shopping behavior both what our customers tell us and what their actual shopping behavior says.
Kroger's data suggests some greater confidence in the economy and less caution in spending consistent with what we saw in the first quarter.
Even so confidence in the economy and the economic recovery is not pervasive across the board.
Many of our customers are still struggling and we continue to pursue our strategy of connecting meaningfully with all customers wherever they are in the economic spectrum.
It is worth noting that our definition of a loyal customer is based on a combination of how often a customer shops with us and the amount of products they purchase from Kroger.
We have loyal customers in every segment of the customer spectrum from value customers to upscale shoppers and everywhere in between.
We continue to see our loyal households grow at a faster rate than total households.
As you know we developed the four keys of our customer first strategy more than 10 years ago.
Because we recognize that customers wanted a grocery retailer that would deliver not just one or two key advantages but a total combination including a great overall shopping experience excellent customer service a full assortment of both national and corporate brand products and everyday low prices and promotional offerings.
Today our customer research tells us that this is even more important.
Our customers don't want to compromise by choosing retailers who do only well in only one or two areas.
In short customers are looking for a food retailer that can offer it all.
And that is Kroger's sweet spot.
That is exactly where we've positioned ourselves to win.
It is where we are winning.
And it is where we intend to continue to win.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike Ellis to outline our operational performance.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
First I'd like to thank our associates for their solid performance.
Strong and consistent execution is what allows us to continue making investments in all the four keys of our customer first strategy including investments in our associates and ongoing price investment.
As Rodney said loyal households grew at a faster rate than total households which also grew for the quarter.
This is important because it tells us that we are connecting with our customers across the entire spectrum and that we are connecting in the right areas: people products and shopping experience and price.
As expected inflation continued to increase during the quarter especially in meat dairy and in pharmacy which continued to produce solid growth in both script count and ID sales.
We estimate inflation excluding fuel and pharmacy was 2.4% in the second quarter and 2.8% with pharmacy.
Even with higher inflation we saw strong tonnage growth during the second quarter.
Our corporate brands portfolio continues to resonate with our customers.
During the second quarter corporate brands represented approximately 26.3% of total units sold and 25.2% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
We saw strong double-digit unit and sales growth in Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic.
Our new entry-level price point brands and premium tier private selection brand all had strong positive sales and unit gains in the second quarter as well.
Another driver of sustainable growth is customer first innovation.
For the past few quarters we have highlighted innovations that are improving our connection with customers and growing our market share.
This quarter I would like to focus on our merger with Vitacost.com.
First I'd like to echo Rodney's welcome to the Vitacost team.
You're now part of team Kroger and we couldn't be more excited about that.
This is a compelling transaction because of the incredible potential for transformation and growth.
We believe Kroger is uniquely positioned to blend the art of retailing and deep customer insights with a superb online experience.
Vitacost people and extensive e-commerce platform coupled with Kroger's customer insights and loyal customer base will really be a powerful combination that we can leverage to create new levels of personalization and convenience for our customers.
We intend to build on Vitacost's robust technology platform and integrate it with our existing digital footprint to do just that.
This is one of the reasons we recently asked Kevin Dougherty who has been serving as Kroger's Group Vice President and Chief Supply-Chain Officer to lead this effort in a new role as Group Vice President of Digital and Vitacost.
Kevin has been a leader on the Vitacost merger team from the beginning and for the past several years he has been increasingly focused on building our digital organization here at Kroger.
We look forward to combining our teams to do great things for our customers together.
Now I'd like to provide a brief update on labor relations.
We recently completed several successful contract negotiations covering Food 4 Less associates in Southern California and Kroger associates in Cincinnati and Dayton.
We are currently negotiating contracts with the UFCW for store associates in New Mexico Toledo and agreements with the Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising healthcare and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitably which will help us create more jobs and more career opportunities and really enhance job security for our associates.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger's financial results and update our guidance for 2014.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
When we outlined our accelerated growth strategy at our October 2012 investor conference we also identified the key performance targets for shareholders to measure our progress.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the results in each metric.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
We're very pleased with our second quarter ID sales growth of 4.8%.
This strong performance was supported by ID sales growth in every department and every supermarket division.
Our natural foods department continues to grow in the double digits accelerated by significant household gains.
Rolling four quarters FIFO operating margins excluding fuel and adjustment items expanded by 7 basis points.
Over time we expect our FIFO operating margins growth rate excluding fuel to return to slightly expanding on a rolling four quarters basis.
The third target metric is return on invested capital.
We reported a return on invested capital on a rolling four quarters basis excluding adjustment items of 13.6% which was an increase from 13.5% in the same period last year.
Increased capital investments will make it more difficult to grow ROIC in the near-term.
However we expect these investments to be accretive to ROIC as they mature.
We expect our year-end ROIC which will factor in a full year of increased capital investments and fully reflect Harris Teeter in our calculation to show a slight decline compared to the end of fiscal 2013.
Now I'll share our second quarter 2014 results in more detail.
Please note that this quarter includes Harris Teeter and Kroger's statement of operations so year-over-year percentage comparisons are affected as a result.
In the second quarter our net earnings totaled $347 million or $0.70 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $317 million or $0.60 per diluted share.
As Mike said we are seeing higher inflation than originally anticipated.
We recorded a $26 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $13 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
We began fiscal 2014 estimating LIFO for the year at $55 million.
At the end of the first quarter we increased our LIFO guidance to a charge of $90 million.
As reported this morning we are increasing our LIFO estimate for the year to $100 million which is an incremental penny charge to net earnings per diluted share in the second quarter and $0.05 to $0.06 for the full year.
As we have mentioned in the past we managed the company without regard to our LIFO charge and many of the items we discussed are on a FIFO basis.
So when we develop our expectations for every given year we estimate LIFO last.
The reason for this is LIFO is merely an accounting convention.
Typically a higher LIFO charge would be a headwind to results but our strong sales helped us overcome the higher than expected charge and increase our guidance.
FIFO gross margins decreased 12 basis points from the same period last year excluding retail fuel operations.
Operating general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation excluding retail fuel operations were essentially flat as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
Increases in workers compensation and general liability reserves negatively affected this comparison by 8 basis points.
Now for retail fuel operations.
About half of our supermarkets have fuel centers today.
In the second quarter are cents per gallon fuel margins was approximately $0.18 compared to $0.165 in the same quarter last year.
Our long-term financial strategy continues to be maintain our current investment grade debt rating repurchase shares have an increasing dividend and fund increasing capital investments.
Achieving a 2 to 2.2x net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio by mid-to late 2015 remains a key objective.
Kroger took on debt to finance the Harris Teeter merger and has not yet realized a full year of Harris Teeter EBITDA.
This has caused a significant increase in the company's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio which is 2.33 as of the close of the second quarter compared to 1.77 during the same period last year.
This is however an improvement from the 2.42 we reported last quarter.
Kroger's net total debt is $11.2 billion an increase of $3.5 billion from a year ago.
This includes the debt related to the Harris Teeter transaction and the share repurchases activity so far this year.
Kroger's strong financial position allowed the company to return more than $1.9 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the second quarter Kroger repurchased 1.6 million common shares for a total investment of $78 million.
All $500 million of the buyback authorization in June – granted in June is still available.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $672 million for the second quarter compared to $507 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect capital investments to be in the $2.8 billion to $3 billion range including Harris Teeter for fiscal 2014.
Now I'd like to update our growth objectives for 2014.
Based on our strong second quarter results we raised and narrowed our adjusted net earnings per diluted share guidance to a range of $3.22 to $3.28 for fiscal 2014.
The previous guidance was $3.19 to $3.27 per diluted share.
The company's long-term net earnings per diluted share growth guidance remains 8% to 11% and shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend expected to increase over time.
We raised our identical supermarket sales growth guidance excluding fuel to 3.5% to 4.25% for fiscal 2014 the previous guidance was 3% to 4%.
We're optimistic as we look forward to the remainder of the year but keep in mind we had a very strong fourth quarter last year to compare to.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
I've said this before.
This is an exciting time to be at Kroger.
We are accelerating growth in our core business and investing in unique competitive positioning for today and the future.
Integration with Harris Teeter is going exactly the way we would hope and we continue to learn from each other in ways to improve our customers' experiences.
We see transformational potential in Vitacost's e-commerce platform.
We are currently hiring to fill an estimated 20 000 positions in our supermarkets stores.
Next week we will open our 2000 fuel centers location and we are well on our way to exceeding our long-term earnings per share growth rate for fiscal 2014.
Now we look forward to answering your questions.
Laura we'll take our questions now.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Steven Forbes of Guggenheim Securities.
It's John Heinbockel.
So two questions.
Number one how much of the inflation that you saw in the quarter do you think you actually pass through maybe on a percent basis you pass 50% of it through or 75 or what's the general thought there? And then given Rodney your comments about the economy I would think you probably could get a lot more of that pass-through here in the third quarter or was that not right? On your second question I wouldn't necessarily agree or disagree with that.
And as you know inflation you really do have to look at it item by item.
And as Mike mentioned even with the inflation we still had strong tonnage growth and we're very happy with the results in total.
A lot of the inflation right now in the perishable areas the fresh departments and that as you know is very seasonal.
And if you look at like some of the produce inflation as soon as the next crop comes on that could heavily affect it.
On a percentage I would hesitate to give it because on some areas we feel comfortable we’re probably past 100% others not so.
And as you know overall as I mentioned tonnage is strong.
We continue to reduce our pricing for our customers as we take costs out of the business to do that.
Okay.
And then secondly if you think about Harris Teeter how much scope is there for that organization to accelerate unit growth? I know there's a lot of potential for new stores but I know that spread out over more years.
Can they accelerate unit growth? And if they can if there's the capacity to do that given the lead time on real estate when would that be? Is that a 2016 or 2017 timeframe or sooner? John I think you'll see Harris Teeter have a little bit higher store growth over the next several years than they otherwise would have.
They had a lot of projects in the pipeline as the two companies came together with the merger.
And the nice thing about joining Kroger for them is it gives them a little bit more capital capacity to be a little faster on getting some of those store projects up and running.
It is true in many of the markets they operate where we have growth opportunities the DC area the Baltimore area markets like that the lead time is a little bit longer but they've always had a very strong and forward thinking capital plan.
It's really just the ability now for them to accelerate some of those a little faster than they may have on their own.
So we would expect that their unit growth will kick up from where it has been historically.
On average the lead time is probably what one to two years longer than what we've been traditionally used to unless you go to the West Coast.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
And our next question will come from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Thanks for taking my question.
So I wanted to dive a little deeper into your expenses for the quarter.
Compared to the past few quarters we saw less expense leverage and I know you guys called out the more difficult comparison.
Was there anything else that was unusual this quarter and were the expenses in line with your internal plans? They were generally in line with our internal plans.
The item that we called out in both that I just spoke of in the conference call some increases in workers’ comp and general liability reserves a little bit of increase for this year as well as some prior year increases in the allowances for that caused about an 8 basis point negative effect on the OG&amp;A lines.
So we would have had a little bit better improvement we would have shown some improvement if not for the need to increase those allowances and I can tell you that is certainly a point of focus for our operators and our loss prevention folks.
The key to that isn't the dollars it's making sure the accidents never happen.
Okay.
Then shifting to e-commerce we've seen a lot more noise lately whether it's from Amazon or Whole Foods and some of your competitors and you guys have clearly made investments in Vitacost.
I mean how do you feel about your current capabilities versus the competition right now? It's a good question.
I would say we feel very good but we're not satisfied.
And the changes that we've made over the last couple of years we feel increasingly happy about what we're seeing.
As you know it's one of the things when we merged with Harris Teeter that we were really excited about.
They have an incredibly strong click and collect operation that we're spending a lot of time on.
And as you know when we announced merging with Vitacost they have a great group of people from a talent perspective and a great infrastructure that we think we can grow off and expand.
So I feel very comfortable where we are positioned from a food standpoint relative to our competition.
I feel even more excited about some of the things that we put in place to take advantage of the future.
I don't know Mike or Mike if you want to add…? Nothing other than the fact that the merger just closed a month ago and we are working hard to bring both companies together and see all the benefits we can come up with here.
All right.
Thank you.
Good luck next quarter.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Hi.
I just wanted to dive a little bit into gross margins.
So obviously there's been a lot of news and press about Harris Teeter taking prices down and it's hard to know how much that would have impacted your gross margins on your P&amp;L.
But by my math your core FIFO margins excluding Harris Teeter could actually have been up this quarter.
Is that a fair statement? And then I guess maybe talk a bit how generics might have impacted your gross margins and other points that might be relevant.
Relative to Harris Teeter I won't go to that level of transparency.
Harris Teeter's not the only place that we continue to invest in price.
It's been fairly public about the price reductions they've done and where they've done them.
But we continue to refine our pricing strategy in all the geographies that we operate.
And our goal always remains to grow our operating profit margins on a rolling four quarter basis slightly.
We were 7 basis points and I've never given a specific number although Rodney and Cindy both kidded me a little bit yesterday that I've always said by that it's a handful or less and most people can count how many digits are on both of my hands and it would be one hand not two.
So that's why we said we actually exceeded that goal a little bit this time and that's as you know what we always focus on and when we get the operating leverage we can accelerate things that we plan to do later and if things aren't quite trending the way we want to grow operating profit margin we can slow a few things down we become very nimble in that arena which has been a huge help.
Okay.
So then just on your quarter in general did you guys -- you guys came in above plan in the second quarter? Is that fair to say? And then I guess it was ahead of plan on earnings.
Was that more gas margin related? And I guess I'm wondering because you didn't beat the Street by much but your gross margins came in quite a bit higher.
And yet you're raising your full-year guidance on the low end by $0.03? Well I think it's a combination of things Karen the strong sales certainly are encouraging for us and that momentum is always good.
If you look at everything that has happened and the fact that we've increased our LIFO charge by what will amount to $0.05 or $0.06 more charge than we expected at the beginning of the year we have now raised our earnings guidance twice.
We've now raised our ID sales guidance.
It's the combination of those factors that has allowed us to remain quite positive.
There were – while we only beat the Street by $0.01 LIFO cost us $0.01.
And the 8 basis points from workers’ comp and general liability would've been somewhere between $0.015 and $0.02 probably at least $0.02 depending on how things round.
So despite those headwinds the underlying strength of our core businesses we're very happy with.
And the top line strength has continued into the third quarter? Yes.
So far through the third quarter it's very similar to where we were in the first and second quarters and pleased with the continued progress.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Karen.
And next we have a question from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Nice quarter.
Thanks Chuck.
Thank you.
If we look at the P&amp;L just for the third quarter are there any Vitacost acquisitions expenses worth calling out Mike? We haven't really called out any merger related expenses for Harris Teeter for a while.
We had some actually leading up to the merger.
There's been a few small ones out there nothing amounting to much of anything although a lot of the heavy lifting on as we convert systems and maybe happen to write some of the assets off of their books that they have capitalized as we convert to our system those things might face us in the future but those aren't cash expenditures they're things that were spent in the past.
And Vitacost is just so new sure there were was a handful of expenses leading up to the merger why we use downside count so we didn't use an outside financial advisor so it's not like we had any kind of a fee to pay a third-party in that so there really wasn't much at all.
And then in your guidance for the remainder of the year Mike how much dilution from Vitacost is built into that number? It's negligible for the back half of the year.
And it's certainly contemplated in our guidance.
They were actually operating here very recently at very close to a breakeven kind of a level.
And we have a little bit of dilution built-in but nothing dramatic that we don't think we can overcome with the strength of the underlying operations.
So something like less than $0.05 per share? Yes sir.
All right.
Thanks.
Less than a handful of pennies.
Less than a handful of pennies? All right.
And the next question will come from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hey guys most of my questions have been asked.
But I just wanted to delve into the balance sheet.
Mike I know you talked about 2.33 and your 1.7 I probably get the numbers all messed up but you want to get down to 2.
But clearly there's been a lot of activity in the space.
I just wondered from your perspective does your balance sheet right now preclude you from doing other things or would it – it's a factor or how are you thinking about your balance sheet given the fact that there has been so much activity in the space vis-à-vis M&amp;A? We were 1.77 last year.
We were 2.33 this year which was 9 basis points down from the first quarter.
We feel very comfortable.
We're on track to get to the 2 to 2.2x.
And we'll be happy at the high-end of that range.
We don't necessarily have to get to the 2.0x Scott.
That's just a range we wind up giving.
And I don't know that our balance sheet necessarily precludes us from doing anything.
If the right opportunity is out there and we go to the rating agencies and they understand the uniqueness of an opportunity like they clearly did with Harris Teeter.
And our follow-through when we make a commitment to them that we actually follow through on what we do whether it's how we expect to grow the dividend how we expect to use cash flow to buy in shares how we expect to use capital to grow our business organically.
We're very open with the rating agencies and follow-through and the commitments we make and if it's the right set of assets with the right growth opportunity like Harris Teeter was with all the new markets I don't think we would be precluded from continuing to participate in industry consolidation.
The other thing is the 1.77 was unusually low because we had stopped buying back stock and some other things because we had already announced the Harris Teeter merger and we wanted to position ourselves relative to being able to merge with Harris Teeter.
That's an excellent point.
We were actually out of the market on shares for quite a while as we are blacked out while we were looking at it as well so with a combination of factors.
That's perfect and if I could have one more I think you guys recently opened up 121 000 square foot in Athens Georgia.
And I think the comment what I read is that there's a bigger one to come down there.
You guys are really the only ones opening up bigger stores even Wal-mart is shrinking what they're trying to do.
Can you kind of give us a reason why you're so comfortable with opening up these large stores and what you see what maybe other people don't see? Well we've had good success with our marketplace format.
It is driving a lot of our sales and growth right now.
So really pleased with how they are performing.
Although we are still working on small format stores we're doing some work and research around that.
So really trying to stay open to what's the customer looking for in terms of a shopping experience.
And so far they've been really pleased with the selection that we have in the big store.
And we're really pleased with the results.
When we look at our customer first tracker customers can rate us very high in our marketplace stores.
So it's really the combination of our associates and their connection with our customers and what we've put inside those boxes really connect well with the customer.
And I realize 120 000 square feet it depends on where you start from it's a good-sized store but it's not so big that you can't manage getting around the store reasonably easy either.
And it gives you a lot of flexibility from a space utilization standpoint.
And obviously the key is making sure what you put in it it's exciting and something the customer wants.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Scott.
And the next question is from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask a little bit more about Harris Teeter.
If you guys can give further color in terms of the order online pick up at store capability that obviously was one of the big draws from Harris Teeter.
Where are you in that process today? And any color that you can give in terms of maybe as you roll that capability out further? It's still pretty early in the process.
I can tell you that our teams have spent a ton of energy but it's not something that we are to a point of announcing publicly.
But I can tell you we're progressing along and we're very pleased with where we are.
And we're very pleased with the progress that Harris Teeter continues to make as well.
I don't know – okay… On – in the Harris Teeter brand itself has there been further rollout? Yes.
Harris Teeter has continued to roll it out and they've continued to have strong growth in where they already have it so it's really both pieces.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks and just a quick follow-up switching over to Vitacost.
I know obviously also very early in the stages but any color that you can give in terms of when it was announced you said that of the 45 000 SKUs that Vitacost carries you had about 10 000 overlap.
Any work that's been done so far that you can just kind of incrementally share in terms of maybe what some of those other products when we may start to see them flowing onto the shelves throughout your banners your other banners? Well again we just really closed the transaction and we're right in the middle of putting plans together and going through all of the steps that you would during a merger of this sort and size.
And really trying to develop our plans for the future and how do we grow the platform the Vitacost business? And we're learning a lot from Vitacost on what to do within the Kroger footprint also.
So we're still in that discovery phase but there is a lot going on and we're learning every day that there's more to learn.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Thanks Vincent.
Ad our next question comes from Robert Ohmes of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
For Rodney or Mike and Mike the guidance obviously implies a little bit of a slowdown in the ID sales x fuel in the back half.
Can you guys just maybe talk about why ID's would slow? Maybe what some of the support was? Is your expectation of support from fuel rewards potentially slowing? Is there an expectation of less benefit from inflation or is there an expectation that tonnage could slow? Just sort of any color we could should think about as far as your opportunity to continue to beat those ID guidance you're giving us? Thanks.
Thanks Robert.
First of all obviously we're going to strive to make sure the identicals are as strong as we can.
If you remember the fourth quarter of last year we had a lot of whether benefits.
We didn't really talk about it that much in the earnings call but there were quite a bit of weather benefits.
Until you actually have it you don't know whether it's going to be a headwind or a tailwind.
So really the biggest reason for the conservatism in identical guidance would be really cycling fourth quarter last year and not knowing how weather would be.
It's really nothing should read anything in it other than that.
So we really don't see inflation changing that much.
We really don't see the economy changing that much.
We're not seeing customer behavior changing either.
And then in terms of the sort of contribution from fuel rewards has that been healthy and is that expected to continue to incrementally support ID's as well? It's a great question and it's a little harder to answer because it's hard to isolate just one piece and what it does for identicals.
It's really the whole shopping experience so we continue to make progress on the freshness of our product.
Our associates continue to make progress on connecting with their customers from a friendliness standpoint.
So it's really hard to say this piece of improvement causes this much of the identicals.
Overall as you know it's just one more reason for somebody to shop at Kroger and it's part of the overall package of what we're trying to deliver for our customer.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Robert.
And next we have a question from Kelly Bania of BMO.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about category performance.
I think you mentioned a little bit on private label but I think if I'm correct correct me if I'm wrong that you had been trending with all departments kind of in the positive territory.
So just curious if you had any update on that.
It was a well-rounded quarter.
Corporate brands had a very nice quarter.
If there was any pickup at all in and it's not even a hiccup but obviously the high dairy prices has an influence on how many units of milk wind up getting sold.
So that was a bit of headwind on corporate brands because so much of the milk that we sell is processed in our own dairies.
But tonnage overall was very very strong.
All departments had positive ID sales.
All geographies had positive ID sales and once again natural foods would have been the leader in the departments with continued double-digit ID sales growth in that department.
Pharmacy was strong.
A lot of departments were strong.
Good broad-based performance.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And then just curious if you could elaborate a little bit on the signs of the less cautious behavior that you're seeing and sounds like most parts of your store.
Is that more any trading up activity is it more items you're seeing in the basket? Is it less focused on couponing and promotions? Or just any color you can provide would be helpful.
It's as much an art as it is a science.
But it's looking at things that would be discretionary.
What kind of performance are we having there so if you think about Starbucks or Boar's Head some of our cheeses some of our upscale items customers continue to engage in a much more positive way than before.
And that's performance that's year-on-year.
Also if you look at some of the non-foods general jewelry all those types of discretionary items customers continue to be willing to spend money.
And then we also survey our customers on their perception and customers are continuing to tell us they feel the economy is a little bit better but they continue to be nervous in terms of their outlook on things.
So it's cautious optimism I think is probably the best way to put it.
Thanks.
Thanks Kelly.
The next questioner is Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Good morning everyone.
I have two questions if I can.
You slipped in a mention of DC Baltimore today.
Can you update us on what your plan is for your expansion into new markets where you're most focused? You're looking to hire 20 000 new permanent employees.
Is that a sign you are getting closer to that or is that not the right way to look at the press release? I wouldn't say the 20 000 new hires really has anything to do with any announcement of going into new geography.
Those are by and large almost entirely if not completely jobs that are open today and geographies where we already operate or have plans over the next year to open stores in existing geographies.
So those are actual current needs we have to have to fully staff our stores to the level we want staffed and be able to have schedules written the way we need them written and our associates want to work inside of our stores.
We continue to think about our new market activity a lot of activity going on around that.
But we aren't going to be premature in announcing where that's maybe.
Obviously merging with Harris Teeter put us in a lot of new markets.
A lot of new markets.
And relevant to the earlier question that I think John asked we would expect they're relatively new to DC Baltimore so for Harris Teeter those were new markets and there are significant opportunities to increase our footprint in those markets.
Okay.
And then the drought in California it continues to become I guess more worrisome.
So as you think about some of the fruits and nuts and so forth that you source from there.
I mean you look into next year some of these items might be in shorter supply.
Are you planning more differently than what you might usually do? Do you have options from other geographies? If I guess certain items from the U.S.
are harder to find or is it just too early to even think about that? I think it's probably too early to think about that although we have the same sort of issue whether it's orange juice from Florida or other commodities from around the world that we'll have short supply from time to time and we just have to deal with that as best we can.
And we buy from around the world in so many cases today whether it's in the fresh departments or other parts of our business.
So we just have to deal with that as it comes I think.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks Ken.
And next we have a question from Kate Wendt of Wells Fargo Securities.
Yes.
Thanks and good morning.
So you're not showing organic sales growth has remained obviously pretty consistent here and strong.
I'm curious how you're thinking today about this notion of the industry may be reaching a point where there's too much supply at retail for demand? Or do you think instead that the piece of the pie in terms of people interested in natural and organic is only continuing to broaden and deepen? Well it appears to us that the natural organic customer is changing and growing in numbers.
And those that shop the grocery store are also crossing over and the blurring of grocery and natural foods is becoming more and more difficult when you look around the store and you can see organic items on the regular grocery shelves.
So it seems that the customer base is getting much larger for these types of products.
I don't know where the end is.
It might be a lifestyle change for our customers that they are just deciding to eat better.
And make different choices for their families but we love the growth and we're going to continue to make sure that we have the products our customers looking for.
We don't find that customer's an either/or shopper.
There's a small percentage of customers that are only organic and natural but most of our customer base actually buys across the whole store.
I guess that was my follow-up.
Do you have any data that you can share on what percent of your customers are buying some natural organic products today and maybe how many just started over the past couple of years? Or maybe even what type of households where you're seeing the most growth in the category in terms of whether it's middle income or upper middle incomes anything that you can share on that would be really helpful.
It would be well over half our customers would buy something.
That continues to increase.
And the thing that I think is so hard is there's a lot of product innovation in that space as well.
So some of the customers maybe buying products there because of the innovation not necessarily because of organic or natural.
It's just because it's a new item and it tastes good.
So how much of it is driven by one piece versus the other? I think it would be just speculation.
Interesting.
And anything in terms of the sort of household income profile? Are you seeing that kind of dip down into the middle incomes or where you're seeing kind of the most growth? It's really all customer types.
It's not exclusive to one specific customer might by no means.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Kate.
And our next is from Filippe Goossens of Mitsubishi.
Yes.
Good morning.
Many thanks for taking my call.
Actually I have two questions this morning if I may.
First one is for Michael Schlotman.
Michael if I look at your outstanding debt still a few items with high coupons.
Can you maybe conceptually talk about how you think about liability management? And then my question for Rodney is kind of a follow-up on an earlier question with regard to smaller store formats.
We are obviously monitoring with great interest the Family Dollar saga.
We're also monitoring what's going on in the U.K.
market where companies like Wm Morrison are using convenience stores as a way to compete with all these and the leaders of the world.
Can you maybe just kind of talk a little bit more about how you think about the convenience store format? Is that something that down the road may be part of your plans or you're still very happy with your current portfolio? Many thanks.
Okay.
If you look at the smaller stores obviously we've been in the convenience store itself for years and years and years.
It came to Kroger when we merged with Dillon.
We would look at – we are following Dollar General Family Dollar everyday as well.
We consider both of them competitors.
I can tell you all of us get into those stores on a regular basis trying to learn what they do and how they connect with their customer and what are they doing good and what can we learn from them? And we think it will be important over time to have even a smaller store that's part of the profile that's probably a convenient store not necessarily a convenience store.
But it's something we continue to work on.
We haven't figured out how to make money the way we'd like to make money there.
But we haven't given up either.
Mike do you want to talk about the debt? From a liability management standpoint Philippe we constantly look at some of those higher coupon pieces of debt that are out there.
Many of those are 30-year debt what was 30-year debt at the time we issued it.
When we look at the net present value of making a tender offer for those it just doesn't often come out where it's an NPV positive on a cash flow basis.
It may help accretion.
It may be accretive to earnings per share on that basis.
But the upfront amount you have to pay because of the premium that they'd be trading at you wind up spending a lot of cash upfront.
So we'll constantly look at it.
I wouldn't say we have any plans in the near-term to do anything about them and our approach has been over time to continue to manage our liability and have dollars coming due every year.
So we can be accessing the markets on a regular basis.
We've actually taken a few hundred basis points out of our average interest portfolio.
When we look at upcoming debt issuance activity we do often times enter into hedging agreements to lock in current interest rates and in advance of actually issuing the debt.
And as we get closer to those that is a type of transaction we often use.
Great.
Thank you very much Michael and look forward to seeing you next week then.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth of Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Your comments that the recovery has not really been pervasive across the board if you also look across at the discounters that have not been showing strong grocery performance it sounds like the weakness is really in that lowest income customer bracket.
Is that true? And can give us some insight on what's going on with that group are they just not responding to lower pricing at this point? Well I would say that we're very happy with how we are connecting with that customer.
If you look at their economic situation incomes have been very slow to recover.
And employment has been slow to recover.
So it's really when I make the comment it's referring to the situation they're in.
And we continue to try to make sure that we're able to address pricing and help their budget go further both on the introduction of more entry price point items and absolutely just lowering pricing too.
So we're very happy with our performance for that customer segment but that customer segment continues to be under a lot of economic strain.
Okay.
Great.
And then switching over to store growth you've done a lot of consolidation of underperforming stores in recent years and that's put some pressure on your net store growth.
But it sounds like you're coming to some end of that process.
Is there a square footage growth rate you can commit to in future years that's a little more robust? I incorrectly predicted last year that our absent Harris Teeter that our unit growth would expand a little bit.
So I'll probably be hesitant to repeat that great prognostication here.
Obviously we've been very aggressive on trimming some of the underperforming assets of our portfolio which has slowed our store count.
The question earlier on an average store opening up at 121 000 square feet there are times that was not a case but there are times where we opened a store like that and then may replace a couple of 40 000 or 50 000 square foot stores.
So our square footage actually goes up but our store count goes down by one as a result.
I think going forward if our guidance has been in the range of 2% of square footage growth excluding the operational closings.
And I don't want to get married to a square footage growth on a net basis and not make the right decision on operationally closing a store.
So we kind of look at our investments in new relocated and expanded stores separately from what activity should happen on operational closings and looking at those separately.
So we continue to increase capital we'll increase it $200 million next year.
Would expect to open up more stores next year than this year and I think it will be a continued progression up in both our store count and our square footage.
So improving but something under 2% it sounds like? On a net basis I would think so.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
And then lastly -- But Mark keep in mind that square footage is significantly more productive when you look at on a sales per square footage basis.
We're up roughly 50% on improvements in productivity in our stores since we started this customer first journey 10 years a go.
At the end of the day I'd rather have more productive square footage than more square footage that's a little less productive.
Okay.
And then lastly as you're looking at click and collect and some of the other models maybe you could comment's a little on some of these personal shopping services that are out there from third parties have you looked at the Instacart and the Google Express and some of these other ones that are out there? What are your thoughts there? You should be very comfortable that we've looked at all of them.
And it's really trying to make sure we understand what our customers' wants and needs are.
Some of the places where we believe that will be more successful our places where we don't have stores but it is something we continue to look at and evaluate and look at partnering with as appropriate.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Mark.
And our next question comes from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to go back to comment about ROIC and the fact that there are a lot of investments not just including Harris Teeter but other investments that are dampening it now but we will see improvement.
And I was just wondering if you can give us a better sense of not specific numbers but kind of in terms of magnitude whether we're talking about remodels new stores and then a sense of how we should expect the benefits of those investments to flow in? Is it going to be 2015 or is there more in 2016? How is that all going to work out? Meredith absent the Harris Teeter being in there for a full year this year and if you can think about how an ROIC calculation works and we started to go down this path in the conference call and took the language out.
So I guess I'll go down it in a Q&amp;A.
Right now we only have half of the Harris Teeter assets in the calculation because it's a beginning of the year and end of the year average assets that you return is calculated on.
So right now it's about half of years of EBITDA and half of their assets.
If you think about an ROIC number for Harris Teeter based on the purchase price it would have been an ROIC number below what Kroger have been generating.
So a full year of Harris Teeter in here will reset the bar for ROIC slightly.
It won't be dramatically lower but we do expect it to be a little bit lower.
Absent that even with the increased CapEx we've been investing in the business we would have expected ROIC to grow slightly albeit somewhat slowly as we ramp this up.
You typically see a couple to three year lag and a better growth of ROIC as you begin to increase your capital expenditures.
So we're about midway into that two to three-year timeframe so sometime in 2015 2016 we should start to see a bigger benefit from those investments we've made 18 months ago and are starting to mature now and they'll overwhelm the new investments we make in 2015 and 2016 from a return standpoint.
Typically on expansions in new stores Mike and the first year actually hurts ROIC.
The second year it gets almost neutral but hurts a little third year it starts helping.
Right.
If you look at our maturity.
Okay.
And when you look at the performance of the projects that you've done are they all following the pro formas that you had built? You feel like are they beating them? Well it's like anything.
All would be an overstatement of all hitting that overperforming it's a mixed bag.
Some are a little below.
Some are exceeding it in a big way but by and large most of them many of them are right at the kind of expectations we laid out.
The key there will be to continue to generate the sales and the EBITDA that those stores were expected to generate.
And then in turn hold our divisions accountable to give that EBITDA back to our shareholders.
And either back to us to continue to invest in the business or back to the shareholders so we can grow it.
But clearly as a group these stores are performing very well and I would say are at the point right now of exceeding our expectations as a group.
And then my final question would be is it right to think about this level of investment as being something that will continue? I know you don't want to talk about moving into a new market or we should receive this as sort of opportunistic and we'll see a moderation in say 2017? I would not expect to see a moderation in the capital plans.
We've got some great markets where we have average market shares or below average market shares when you look at some of our stronger markets.
And the strong connection we see between market share and return on invested capital is one of the reasons we've gone down the fill-in strategy format.
And I would expect to continue to see us having a very strong capital expenditure program.
When we laid it out in 2012 we expected a couple hundred million dollar increase for five years.
And it was going to start in 2013.
So that really gets you to the 2017 2018 kind of timeframe and as we go through that process we'll go through the report card you like you just asked on the stores we've opened and to the extent we continue to be happy with those investments as a group because in the end that's what affects our shareholders is the group.
We'll make ongoing decisions about how much we'll invest in capital but based on where we are right now I don't see any cause for pause.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We'll have time for one more question.
Thanks Meredith.
And that question will come from Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for sneaking me in.
Good morning.
So as we – I guess following up on Kate's questions earlier on natural and organic you mentioned innovation is a big part of some of the growth that you're seeing in the channel and the response from the consumer.
Can you just provide a little bit more detail on the number of SKUs you've added in these categories what additional rollouts are still planned and maybe how much of the sales you think has been incremental? And then kind of as a corollary there how you think about margin associated with this category versus other areas of the store? Thanks.
Well in terms of incremental it's hard to say.
It was a lot of switching that goes on today between natural and basic type of products.
As we've mentioned we expect our Simple Truth brand to be a $1 billion brand this year.
So customers are as interested today and as engaged in natural and organic as they've ever been.
Also we don't talk a lot about organic produce but that's a category that continues to grow.
Could probably grow faster if supply was better but we continue to enjoy large sales growth in that particular area.
And so just again on the – I guess any additional SKUs that you're planning to rollout on top of what you've done already and also how you think about the margin in these categories I guess now and going forward? Thank you.
SKU count continues to increase.
And the departments continue to grow in many cases both on the private-label side as well as the branded side.
Margins I tell you what there's more margin pressure now on natural and organic than there's ever been.
It seems that it's becoming more and more of a competitive category.
And so although margins tend to be better in natural and organic I don't know that's going to continue for the foreseeable future.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Before we end today's call I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge that this morning is the anniversary of the attacks of September 11th.
We all continue to mourn the loss of the brave men and women who perished on that tragic day.
And I know that many of the folks on the call today were personally affected by those events.
We continue to honor the memory of the fallen through our support of police firefighters the military and their families.
On behalf of all of us here at Kroger we want to say our heartfelt thank you to the everyday heroes who worked every day to keep us all safe.
Finally I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
September is hunger action month.
And I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our associates across the company who helped support our customers and neighbors in need.
According to our partners at Feeding America the nations largest hunger agency there are 46.5 million Americans who don't know where their next meal will come from.
Together we are working to combat poverty in partnership with the 106 local Feeding America food banks.
Last year alone Kroger contributed the equivalent of 200 that's right 200 million meals nearly 4 million meals every week to feed hungry families in our community which I just find an amazing number and my hats off to our team.
Of that our perishable donations partnership program provided more than 50 million pounds of fresh meat produce dairy and bakery items directly to local food banks in 2013.
Our associates play a vital role in helping us get this fresh healthy food to those who need it most.
Without your help and support our perishable donations partnership would not be possible.
Thank you.
That completes our call for today and thanks for joining us.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The Kroger Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our third quarter press release which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures discussed today and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our Web site at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Thanks again to those who participated in our October Investor Conference in person or via Webcast.
We appreciate that many of you made the trip to Cincinnati and as always we enjoyed the dialogue and the opportunity to show you our stores.
I will now turn the call over to Rodney McMullen Kroger's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's third quarter 2014 results are Mike Ellis Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger continues to deliver consistently remarkable results.
We are well on our way to achieving our 10th consecutive year of lowering costs and reinvesting those savings in our people products pricing and improved store experience which together are driving our growth.
Few can deliver this level of sustainable high performance.
After a while it can be easy to take this consistency and reliability for granted.
So it's important to keep in mind that these results are possible only because 375 000 associates engage with our customers every single day.
Our associates delivered yet another quality quarter of inspired customer-first performance.
We continue to implement our growth strategy and consistently deliver on the key performance indicators we first outlined in October 2012.
In the third quarter we achieved our 44th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four-quarter basis and we continued to gain market share.
Our third quarter financial results were driven by strong sales and core business performance which was better than we expected.
Higher fuel margins drove our results above our previous guidance range.
Our guidance range for the full year assumes fuel margins will not be as strong in the fourth quarter as they were in the third quarter.
Mike Schlotman will have more to say about our supermarket fuel operations in a few minutes.
How our customers are doing today depends on the stability of their family finances.
Overall our customers continue to spend a little more as confidence in the economy improves over time.
While inflation is apparent in certain commodities fuel prices have been going down which helps all customers especially those on a budget.
We try to help those customers stretch their food budget in a variety of ways.
Our weekly promotions and fuel rewards help along with price investments.
We continue to make natural and organic foods affordable and accessible to all customers especially with Simple Truth.
Our expansive corporate brands offering is resonating with customers seeking high-quality food at very good prices.
In fact our corporate brands had their best performance in several years in the third quarter.
Our ability to deliver this combination of value sets us apart.
Now I will turn it over to Mike Ellis to discuss our operational performance in the third quarter.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
During the third quarter we continued to grow the number of loyal households and our loyal household count grew at a much faster rate than total household growth which incidentally was also up for the quarter.
Loyal household growth is an important measure of our business because it lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
Inflation increase in the third quarter as Rodney mentioned among commodities such as meat and pharmacy an increased to a lesser extent in all other supermarket departments.
As Mike Schlotman will discuss shortly we raised our LIFO charge estimate for the year again this quarter due to the higher than expected inflation.
We estimate inflation was 3.5% excluding fuel for the third quarter.
Even so we saw strong tonnage growth in the third quarter compared to last year and in fact it was slightly ahead of the second quarter's unit growth.
Corporate brands had an outstanding third quarter representing 27.3% of total units sold and 25.8% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
In fact corporate brands experienced its highest sales growth and total retail dollar share of any quarter in the last three years.
Clearly our rebranded opening price point and Kroger banner brands are a hit with our customers.
Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organics continued to earn double-digit unit and sales growth.
A key driver of Kroger's sustainable growth is customer-first innovation.
For the past few quarters we have been highlighting innovations that are improving our connection with customers.
This quarter I will highlight some of the new and exciting work of our manufacturing team in the dairy department.
We recently opened a state-of-the-art dairy processing plant in Denver.
We built and engineered the plant to deliver exceptional quality and freshness for our customers and to provide an avenue for innovation in the dairy category.
We incorporated new technologies for our customers that ensure our milk will stay fresher longer than ever before.
We are the first dairy in the U.S.
to deploy robotic technology that enables us to pack cases and pick and palletize orders entirely by automation.
Another innovation that this dairy will bring is the ability for us to produce long shelf life products to meet growing demand for aseptic products and packaging.
The dairy our first ground-up manufacturing plant of any kind in 20 years opened in May and began full production of fresh milk in August.
We have been producing fresh milk organic milk juices and drinks and customer response has been very very positive.
Now I would like to give a brief update on labor relations.
We recently completed several successful contract negotiations covering Smith's Associates in New Mexico Fry's and Smith Associates in Arizona Food 4 Less Associates in Southern California and Kroger Associates in Toledo West Virginia and the Ohio Valley.
We are currently negotiating with the teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising healthcare and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitably which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for all of our associates.
Before I turn it over to Mike Schlotman I would like to thank our associates for the impressive quarter.
Once again you showed our customers how much we care about them and each and every day you continue to deliver.
Because of your efforts we are able to continue investing in our products lowering prices and improving the shopping experience in ways that generate customer loyalty.
Now Mike will offer more detail on our financial results and our guidance for the remainder of the year.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As you know when we outlined our growth strategy in 2012 we identified the key performance targets for our shareholders to measure our progress.
I would like to spend a few minutes discussing the results in each metric.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
Identical sales performance is the best measure of our growing connection with customers over time.
We are very pleased with our third quarter ID sales growth of 5.6% without fuel.
This strong performance was supported by ID sales growth in every supermarket department and division and our natural foods department continues to lead with double-digit growth.
Rolling four quarters FIFO operating margin excluding fuel and adjustment items expanded by 9 basis points.
This exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four quarters basis.
We are not reporting our third metric return on invested capital this quarter because the calculation would actually overstate our result.
We expect our year-end return on invested capital which will fully reflect Harris Teeter in our calculation to be similar to our return on invested capital at the end of fiscal 2013.
Now I'll share the rest of our third quarter 2014 results in more detail.
Please note that this quarter includes Harris Teeter and Kroger's consolidated results of operations.
Year-over-year percentage comparisons are affected as a result.
In the third quarter our net earnings totaled $362 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
This includes a $0.04 benefit in the third quarter due to certain tax items.
Excluding these items Kroger's adjusted net earnings were $345 million or $0.69 per diluted share for the third quarter.
We view these tax benefits as non-recurring so as you begin to think about 2015 please note that we will not be growing off of that next year.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $299 million or $0.57 per diluted share.
Last year's third quarter net earnings per diluted share benefited from certain adjustments totaling $0.04 per diluted share.
Excluding these adjustments last year's third quarter net earnings were $0.53 per diluted share.
We recorded an $85 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $13 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year resulting in an incremental $0.09 per diluted share charge to net earnings in the third quarter compared to the same quarter of last year.
We began fiscal 2014 estimating the LIFO charge for the year at $55 million.
At the end of the first quarter we increased our LIFO guidance to a charge of $90 million and at the end of the second quarter; we increased our LIFO charge estimate for the year to $100 million.
As reported this morning we have again increased our LIFO charge estimate for the year to $180 million.
FIFO gross margin decreased 2 basis points from the same period last year excluding retail fuel operations.
Operating general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation excluding retail operations and the adjustment items decreased 21 basis points as a percent of sales compared with the prior year as a result of good expense control and strong sales leverage.
Now for retail fuel operations.
In the third quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.232 compared to $0.171 in the same quarter last year.
This does not include debit and credit card fees.
Last year's third quarter margin was well above historical averages which means this quarter's margin performance was remarkable.
Our long-term financial strategy continues to be to maintain our current investment grade debt rating repurchase shares have an increasing dividend and fund increasing capital expenditures.
Achieving a 2 to 2.2 net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio by mid to late 2015 remains a key objective.
Kroger took on debt to finance the Harris Teeter merger and has not yet realized a full year of Harris Teeter EBITDA.
As a result the company's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio increased to 2.29 as of the close of the third quarter compared to 1.86 during the same period last year as described in Table 5 of our press release.
This is an improvement from the 2.33 reported last quarter.
Kroger's net total debt is $11.5 billion an increase of $3.4 billion from a year ago including the debt related to Harris Teeter transaction and Kroger's share repurchase program.
Kroger's strong financial position allowed the company to return more than $1.8 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the third quarter Kroger repurchased 600 000 common shares for a total investment of $29 million.
All $500 million of the buyback authorization granted in June remains available.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $681 million for the third quarter compared to $641 million for the same period last year.
We expect capital investments to be at the low end of the $2.8 billion to $3 billion range including Harris Teeter for fiscal 2014.
Now I would like to review our updated growth objectives for fiscal 2014.
Based on our strong third quarter results we raised and narrowed our adjusted net earnings per diluted share guidance to a range of $3.32 to $3.36 for fiscal 2014.
The previous guidance was $3.22 to $3.28 per diluted share.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 Kroger expects identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 4% to 5%.
We acknowledge this is a wide range for one quarter and we are seeing great strength and momentum at the start of the fourth quarter but this year's fourth quarter is difficult to project narrowly because of the uncertainties relative to a year ago including the positive effect that weather had on our identical supermarket sales during last year's fourth quarter.
As you start to think about fiscal 2015 estimates we encourage you to build your models based on fiscal 2014 adjusted results which excludes certain tax benefits and charges related to the restructuring of certain pension plan agreements.
The fuel margins return to historical levels we expect 2015 results to be closer to the low end of our long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate guidance of 8% to 11% and shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend expected to increase over time.
Now I'll return it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
Our third quarter performance is further evidence that Kroger is improving our connection with customers and delivering growth for our shareholders.
We continue to increase capital investments which creates exciting opportunities for our business and for our associates.
We enjoy discussing several of those opportunities with you during our Investor Conference in October.
Our positive momentum is expected to carry through the fourth quarter and sets us up well as we look to 2015.
More importantly Kroger's to-do list remains longer than our done list.
There is a lot more to come.
Now we will look forward to your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Great quarter.
Thanks.
Couple of questions regarding your guidance and then I guess also this quarter.
So obviously gas margins more than offset the higher LIFO charge this quarter and this year has been an incredible year from an earnings growth perspective.
But I guess what my question's looking to next year Mike; you talked about the lower end of the range of earnings growth.
And I understand you're coming off of a very strong year.
So my question for this current year is was the strength more in overachieving on the Harris Teeter accretion side or was it brought broad-based across the core and Harris Teeter? And I guess that would lead me to if it was broad-based across or if it was more Harris Teeter-related that explains why you might be at the lower end of the 8% to 11% next year.
But if it was broad-based across Harris Teeter and the core are you just being conservative for next year even though this year was incredibly strong? Wow.
Like three or four questions in there.
Which way do I go with the answer? Well fundamentally this has been a very strong year across the board for us.
With the ID sales that we've had so far this year and ID – positive ID sales in every department and positive ID sales in every geography our core businesses is performing extremely well.
It's not just incremental accretion from Harris Teeter.
It's strong results from all of our core operations.
The primary reason for the conversation about being at the low end of 8% to 11% for next year is solely where fuel is at $0.23 for the quarter and really the last two quarters have been well above historical averages with the amount of fuel gallons we sell in that kind of outperformance on historical fuel margins we just want people to be aware as they start thinking about 2015 of that potential headwind.
If you were to kind of take the business apart and look at our core operations for 2015 they would perform extremely well inside the 8% to 11% range and it's really just a headwind from a potential lower fuel margin per gallon for next year.
And is it fair to say that Harris Teeter has come in slightly better than expected for the year so far? I would characterize Harris Teeter as performing how we expected them to perform.
As has been widely publicized they have not been shy about advertising it.
We've made the price investments in their business that we expected to make during the year.
The customers are responding to those price investments.
And I would characterize Harris Teeter as right on track with what our expectations would be relative to our overall guidance for the year.
The Harris Teeter team has done a nice job running their own business but the other thing is they have been incredibly helpful helping teach all of Kroger some ideas as well.
So it's been great so far and the synergies are moving along as we expected as well.
Okay.
And then just last question on next year's earnings growth what's embedded in terms of share buybacks? We'll give full guidance in March.
We just know that at this time of the year with three quarters behind us clearer fourth quarter guidance since we only have one quarter left people start to refine their 2015 estimates and we just wanted to give some insight of our view of a percentage growth rate and where we would expect to fall in that range as you all start to prepare your estimates for 2015 we'll refine those estimates.
But we'll wait until we give full guidance in March.
We feel we've gone far enough with the EPS because our Board has its annual business plan review meeting in January and it's probably better served to let them approve our business plan for next year before I give you too many lines.
Great.
Congratulations.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks Karen.
Our next question is from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
It's actually Steve Forbes on for John today.
Hi Steve.
Regarding gas so we've historically found it difficult to find any real correlation between gas prices and comps.
What are you seeing during the most recent period of these declines? I know you briefly touched on it before but is there any particular region to call out? You mentioned the lower end consumer.
Is there any demographics that you can expand on as well? If you look at our own numbers we would have difficulty finding some of the same correlations.
When gas prices go up our fuel Reward Program has a little bit more strength.
As gas prices go down people have more money to spend.
So as you know when we look at fuel we just look at one more service that we're offering the customer and one more reason to come to Kroger.
The comments that we made that Mike and I both made we continue to see improvement in the economy.
It's slow but it's going in the right direction.
And it's really across all customers but if you look at main stream and up those customers have fully recovered.
The customers that are on a budget are improving but it's much slower and more constrained.
Okay.
And then just on the deployment of these windfalls is there – I'm sure there's thoughts around how to invest these benefits but do they occur too quickly in order to appropriately plan for the deployment? Or is it just better to let it flow through to the bottom line? How do you guys think about these one-time or short-term benefits? Well if you look at like the tax settlements and stuff we just let those for the most part be when they are and we just disclose it to let you know what it is.
And it flows to the bottom line but it's one-time.
If its things that we think are things that are sustainable those are the things that we would look at in terms of continuing to invest in the business from a service standpoint and a price standpoint.
But it's – as you mentioned it's always a balance between those two pieces and we are always focused on what's going on in the marketplace and what do we think is the best use of that opportunity when it happens.
So it doesn't answer your question directly because the answer is actually different depending on what we see the opportunities to be.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question is from Judah Frommer of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Jude on for Ed.
You mentioned in the release and also on call the kind of rolling four-quarter ex-fuel operating margin being a little bit stronger than you expected it to be.
Is that a way of saying you would have liked to maybe invest more in price or how should we kind of translate that? I don't think it's a reflection of having wanting to invest more in price.
It's really a reflection of having Harris Teeter in for a portion of the year and not all year compared to results last year that didn't have Harris Teeter in the numbers.
And I would say that's the same thing for the – just the couple basis-point decline and the gross margin number I talk about.
If you were to strip Harris Teeter out of the prior year you would have seen a much a much bigger amount that we have invested in price to continue to give value to our customers.
But it's really the fact that their historical numbers have been higher than ours and it's the meshing of those together that's driving some unusual comparisons.
We have continued right on track with what our expectations were for investment in all four keys of our customer-first strategy not just price but the people the products and the shopping experience as well and continue to be very pleased with the reaction our customers have for those investments.
Okay thanks.
And if I could just sneak one more in there maybe shifting gears on natural organic it sounds like it's still comping really well.
You've mentioned in the past maybe eventually seeing some margin compression in the category and now that you have one of the bigger players in the space with the national ad campaign now they are highlighting value have you seen anything in kind of the near-term on margins there? I haven't really seen margin pressure overall.
We continue to invest in price where we feel appropriate and the customer really drives our pricing strategy for the most part.
But you know again we had strong sales growth and double-digit growth natural organics and if you go back to our Simple Truth brand we'll hit a billion dollars this year and we're really proud of that and what it's contributing.
Okay thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much for taking my questions and very nice quarter.
Good morning.
And thank you.
I also wanted to ask a bit more on the natural organic.
Obviously Simple Truth continues to perform very well.
But can you also give us a little color on how some of the other categories and products within natural organic are doing and maybe touch upon also some of the Vitacost products? Well in natural foods the expansion of item selection is continuing to grow and you're finding more and more products in the dairy category.
We just introduced a new line of Simple Truth lunch meats.
There's a lot of activity and we're still finding so many of our customers that didn't shop natural foods are beginning to migrate over to that business which has been really really good for us.
On the Vitacost piece we're still in the honeymoon.
It's only been a couple of months since we merged with Vitacost.
And there's a lot of work going on.
But we have big plans for Vitacost and we're excited about the merger.
I've been to the facilities down to their offices to their warehouses and it's a great business that we have and we're excited about where we're going to go in the next year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just a follow-up if I may.
Regarding your relationship – the Humby relationship as you continue to have nice growth in your loyal households and loyal customers I know that part of what you're looking at is also not only continuing to have your current loyal customers purchase more but also convert others into being loyal customers.
Can you talk about any – if there are any either new strategies or learnings that you're finding as you're going through? If you look at all of our data insights and Dunn Humby that you reference is obviously one piece of that but there's a lot of other insights you're continually getting insights and testing things and the things that work you do more of and the ones that don't work you stop doing.
And that never stops.
So it's an ongoing basis in terms of trying to understand customer needs.
So if you think about your earlier question on natural and organics that's some insights from our customers but one of the things our customers are very clear as they don't want to have to pay a premium for natural and organics.
And we're trying to make sure that we have where they can get a good quality product at a price that's comparable to the non-organic brands and in some cases actually the same price.
So it's really – that would just be one example but there's a whole host of things where you're continually trying to get insights on actually where to locate stores.
It's broad parts of our business and it's actually getting that insight and using it is the key.
All right.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And best of luck going forward.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Our next question is from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
Congrats on a really nice quarter.
Thank you.
So I just wanted to touch on inflation.
Clearly you had a nice benefit from inflation this quarter.
I was wondering if you guys can share maybe your early thoughts for inflation for the upcoming year.
As we sit here today we would actually expect – I'm always hesitant to go here because I've proven my inability to predict this with the fluctuations we have on our LIFO charge which is tied to inflation but we would expect inflation next year to be a little bit more moderate than it is this year.
Clearly the protein categories don't really show any signs of letting up on inflation.
Chicken may happen if corn prices stay down at some point but beef and pork we would expect to see probably close to double-digit inflation again next year.
Milk at this point again as you know the milk prices are driven by a federal market order.
As we sit here today it looks like they may come in some which would help a lot of categories next year.
But overall just given where some of the core input categories are it looks like we should be a little bit lower than the 3.5% that's out there.
That said embedded in that 3.5% is pharmaceuticals which continued to have particularly in the generic category case which continue to have quite high inflation in them.
One of the things that we think is important when you look at inflation over the last 10 years Kroger's been able to really manage in all inflationary environments whether there's been deflation or inflation.
There's always a transition.
If it suddenly changes quickly very high or very low to manage that transition but over time we have found that we really are – our associates have the ability to manage in all environments.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just shifting gears to your ID sales do you feel – have you looked at your ID's this quarter do you feel that you're maybe winning new customers at an accelerated pace from earlier this year? It's really – I mean the thing that's exciting and Mike mentioned it in his prepared comments we're seeing good growth with our existing customers but we're also seeing new loyal shoppers.
And so it's really balanced across both and that's one of the things that's exciting and it's been – it's a little bit higher now than earlier in the year but it's you know it was strong earlier in the year as well.
I don't know Mike if you want to add anything.
No.
I think you hit it.
It's been solid.
Yeah thanks Rodney.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Rupesh.
Our next question is from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Mine is actually much more of a kind of strategic long-term question and just trying to understand kind of the growth trajectory of the company.
You guys were nice enough to take us to a marketplace store I think that was converted from a regular grocery store and it seems like that conversion has gone quite well.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand it seems as we think about Kroger that in a lot of ways you have a better mouse trap at this stage and that marketplace store is certainly one of the key elements.
You guys went through and this goes way back I think late '60s early '70s into a big kind of store upgrade cycle and you became a good to grade stock in Jim Collins' work.
How close are we to really getting into a big upgrade cycle on your store fleet where you really deploy marketplace in a much more aggressive way? So that's my first question about long-term growth.
Well as you know when you were out in October we are obviously very excited about the marketplace stores and the use of all our formats together.
It's one of the reasons why a couple years ago we committed to increase our capital investment by $200 million a year and we continue to do that.
We think that's a good amount to accelerate capital by in terms of the ability to operate the store at the level that you saw and balance in terms of the use of the cash flow.
As long as – as we continue to get the performance from those stores as we expect you'll see us to continue accelerating that capital investment.
But that was the reason why in October of 2012 we outlined the need to increase the capital by $200 million a year.
I don't know Mike.
Do you want -- No I would agree with that and as you know Scott we continue to expect increased capital over the next several years by incremental amounts.
If there's one disappointment I have so far this year it's that actually that we're at the low end of our CapEx guidance.
I know some people out there think we spend too much on CapEx but that just means some stores aren't coming out of the ground as quickly as we hoped.
It doesn't mean that we're less bullish on the new stores we're opening.
It's just a matter of timing of those projects and they will get caught up.
So we're very bullish on our ability to continue to open new stores and have them perform very well.
One of the comments we have marketplace stores now in just about every division of our company across the country and the success we're having with the marketplace store has been really pleasing.
But you asked about remerchandising and I know you saw apparel in some of our stores now and we're having success with some of these new brands and some of the products we're putting in.
So we continue to work on the model to make it relevant to the customer but we're really pleased with what we have today.
And as a follow-up – thanks for the color.
That's just great.
I mean any thought processes as to how many stores in the store fleet could eventually be marketplace? We probably do but probably not for public consumption at this point Scott.
The other thing to keep in mind is as we go down this path and you'll probably see it a little clearer as we get into next year we continue to invest in our business and a fundamental piece of being able to invest in our business is continuing to generate a really good return on our new investments.
And some of those dollars we make conscious decisions of how many fall to the bottom line and how many we invest back into the business in the people products shopping experience and price.
And while I know a lot of you would think we should be at the end of investing in price we still see plenty of categories in particular sections of the store where we have an opportunity to be more price competitive than we are today.
So we're in some respects counting on that continued good results from that deployment of capital to both increase – to have the 8% to 11% earnings per share growth and have the dollars generated to invest back in our business.
And then I just had one more and then I'll yield.
It goes to the long-term growth again.
M&amp;A we talked about it at the Analyst Day.
It seems again Kroger better mouse trap fuel program Dunn Humby customer insights marketplace store.
It seems as you guys evaluate at least from my perspective evaluate M&amp;A activity there's almost a check list of what you might want out of a company that you are going to acquire.
But it does seem like it's a little bit different now given the success you have with your business.
Any thoughts – any additional thoughts? Again I know I asked this at the Analyst Day but I wanted to revisit it.
I wouldn't say there is anything much different than what we answered as we talked about then.
One of the keys on any merger is how are the people that run the business? And do we think culturally they have the same values we have? And that's one of the reasons why we always talk about mergers rather than acquisition.
You get a more limited number of opportunities when you have that standard but what we find is when people have that standard they like going the other direction as well.
And we always like to point out the fact that two of our last three CEOs came out of one of our merged companies and several of our senior officers -- And our current President.
Yes came out of one of the merged companies.
So I think you're right when you say it's almost a check list because it is but it's something that's really worked well for us.
Scott something I would add to that and I certainly understand your question and the seeming benefits we could bring to some M&amp;A activity that may be not as strong as we may hope or not have everything on our check list.
When you sit back and you have opportunity X and you look around the organization and the company in our geographies where we are today and you can clearly see where you can double market share in specific geographies by deploying your capital in those geographies and you have a base of people and the recognition in that market and already strong customer acceptance.
We typically default to that fill-in strategy that we talk about because it's a mature thing takes a lot less time and energy of the organization and significantly less management distraction.
And we're perfectly willing to sit and almost wait not necessarily troll around the country for those opportunities to come along like a Harris Teeter did.
The other thing that would be needed for us to change our approach is if we find that we are able to develop talent faster than we can use it within our existing growth whereas because if we bought something that was something that needed to be fixed up we would obviously need to figure out a way to put talent into it in a way that was effective.
And that would require a different level of talent than we're producing today because we're really focused on developing the talent to support the growth we have.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Scott.
Thanks Scott.
Our next question is from Mark Wiltamuth of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Could you give us a little perspective on just how much the gas gain was in EPS terms and what quarter should we really think about the headwinds starting to arrive as you lap the stronger margins from last year? Mark we won't go into the benefit of the EPS benefit.
But if you think about it a $0.23 fuel margin and $0.17 last year you get a feel; we talk about in a lot of places the number of gallons that we pump so you should be able to back into a number that gets you relatively close.
We just don't want to – we think about that department as any other department inside the company and it happens to be performing very well right now.
I would say clearly the second and third quarter of next year if margins revert to a more historical kind of level which start to experience some headwind from lower fuel margins again we didn't say when in the comments purposefully.
We said if because nobody can really predict where it is.
And we typically turn fuel a lot faster than our competitors.
So in down cycles that's good.
In up cycles that's bad.
If fuel were to turn the other way or oil was to turn the other way and circle it up that actually creates an incremental headwind not just a normal headwind because we're turning the fuel so quickly but clearly second and third quarter.
And one of the things as Mike mentioned earlier we have a January meeting with our Board for them to actually approve our 2015 plan.
Normally we would not share 2015 details until the fourth quarter earnings release.
But we just thought it would be helpful to give a little bit of color on what we're thinking and what we're seeing before then for next year.
That's fair.
And then on the inflation in those meat categories where you're still seeing that double-digit inflation are you passing all of that through? We are hearing some of the retailers are having difficulty passing it through.
Inflation for us inflation and deflation come and go all the time and we're constantly dealing with pricing and how we continue to give value to the customer through inflation and deflation whether it's meat produce or any other part of our business.
So we try to manage it in a way that still gives great value to the customer and the customer decides what they are going to pay.
But I can tell you our tonnage is good and inflation is extremely high right now.
We're just trying to really manage our way through it.
Okay.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks Mark.
Our next question is from Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
As you think about just the broader industry I was hoping you could just talk maybe about where you think some of the gains that you're getting are coming from how you see that evolving.
I think it was at an Analyst Day a few years back where you discuss some of the regional players seeding share pretty consistently.
Are you seeing that accelerate? Are there anything else that you can just talk to broadly? As you know we don't ever talk about specific competitors.
In terms of where the market share is coming from it's always easier to ask the question than it is to see.
It looks pretty broad-based in terms of where it's coming from but we see at some other national players that are gaining share as well.
So we're not the only one.
But there's still about half of the market that's out there that's not people with our economies of scale and it's not necessarily just small regional people.
Some of them could be a little bit bigger.
And then the other piece is we continue to add categories that we didn't even have before which is helping some of our growth.
That's helpful.
And then are you seeing any difference in terms of the comp performance by the format of your stores? And do you feel like after so many years of positive ID growth or productivity growth that you're hitting a ceiling in any of these? It's a good question.
If you look at the comps you always have pockets that are better than others but it's very broad-based.
And when you look at age and other things obviously newer stores will have a higher comp than older stores.
But outside of that there's nothing that would cause us to say one thing or the other.
And probably – I'm sure we have some stores that are getting close to capacity but as a general rule we have plenty of capacity within our existing stores to continue to increase business.
Okay guys.
Thanks.
Best of luck.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question is from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to ask about the guidance for the fourth quarter for ID's.
You mentioned the difficulty in forecasting when you cycle that benefit from the winter weather last year.
Just curious if you are able to or have been able to at all look at your data and you have Dunn Humby and see how much of that boost that you may have had last year was from existing or loyal customers versus new customers and if there's any strategies in place to help kind of cycle that benefit that you may have had last winter? Well clearly we can understand where that business is coming from in those – in regions where the snow or the weather's going to get volatile in a big way you get a lot of people from all spectrums of the loyalty umbrella if you will from people who rarely shop with you but they come to you because you might be the one that is in stock on product to your most loyal customers who come in and stock up.
Obviously we aren't – for the fourth quarter Mike Donnelly and Robert Clark and their merchandising group isn't sitting back and just hoping for weather for us to be able to cycle the great sales we had last year's fourth quarter.
They know what days and what weeks there was weather.
And they would have strategies in place to try to cover some of the uplift we had in the – from that snow.
But the amount of incremental volume you get in a 36-hour period from snow is phenomenal and it would be a Herculean effort on their part to be able to come up with strategies to overcome all of it.
Clearly we're going to do our best to overcome it the best we can.
We'll have weather.
We don't know when.
We don't know where.
We don't know what day.
We don't know much how much.
We don't know if it will be by the end of January we don't know if it will be in February or March at the beginning of next year but it happens every year.
You just don't know when.
The other thing is when you look at weather I have couple of friends that own a quite few fast food restaurants.
And they always tell me they hate snow because it actually is the opposite effect on them.
So it's actually some of our increase is getting business that customers would sometimes be going to other channels.
And obviously when kids stay home they are eating at home versus eating at school.
So some of it is just switching where somebody eats.
Right.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just another question on gross margin your FIFO gross margin ex-fuel only down 2 basis points in spite of some of the high inflation you mentioned in some categories.
Just any comments on the ability to pass that through and how that maybe compares to historical standards? I mean are you finding it easier or the same in terms of passing along inflation at these high levels in some of the protein categories? As always it's almost a category-by-category decision on where the inflation is and what the price points are doing to the customers.
And if you pass it all on what do you think the effect on units is going to be? And if you don't quite pass it all on are you better off at the end of the day not passing all of it on.
So it's a category-by-category decision.
And I know Mike Donnelly and his team spend a lot of time trying to decide exactly what price points and how much of inflation to pass on and when to pass it on.
I do want to reiterate that the couple of basis point decline in gross margin would have been a more normal decline in gross margin.
When I say normal kind of the historical kind of numbers you would have seen in 2013 versus 2014 if not having Harris Teeter in this year not in the base.
We continue to invest in price actually all four keys of the strategy this quarter.
It's just that with Harris Teeter being in there at a higher gross than we think of typically have run; it makes that decline look smaller.
The other piece in terms of looking at it on – from a historical standpoint part of it is trying to decide how long is the inflation going to be in place.
In some items we would anticipate inflation's only going to be four to eight to 12 weeks depending on if it's weather-driven or if it's industry and other driven that will also affect our ability and influence on how we try to pass it through as well.
Great thank you.
Thanks Kelly.
Our next question is from Chuck Cerankosky of Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Great quarter.
Good morning.
Thanks Chuck.
Thanks Chuck.
If you were mentioning sales were off to a strong start thus far in the quarter.
Can you give us a little detail on that including general merchandise sales and how you did thus far in the holiday selling period? So far if you look it would be kind of fortunately similar comments we made earlier or I guess really last quarter.
So far we would be at the top end of the range.
It's broad-based in all departments so it's across the whole store so we feel really good.
The thing that makes it a little more complicated is we haven't cycled – we're just now starting to cycle some of the weather from a year ago so that's one of the reasons why we would get the wide range and kind of Mike's comments earlier.
Yes I understand on the weather comparisons.
That's just going to be tough to predict and deal with but just wanted to see what the actuals look like so far.
And jewelry also is good so far and obviously that's one of the most discretionary areas that we have.
I didn't know it was discretionary.
Oh I have so many comments.
Also could you repeat the private label percentages? I missed those earlier in the call.
Mike? Well overall we are really pleased with the total private label sales and our Kroger brand which is our work horse showed really strong sales growth again and in fact all the different banners brands excuse me really performed well whether it's Simple Truth or Private Selection all of those.
But Kroger brands in the third quarter represented 27.3% of total units and 25.8% of sales dollars.
That's without fuel and pharmacy.
Thank you.
Thanks Chuck.
Our next question is from Ajay Jain of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
My question is guidance-related.
I can understand why you might be slightly cautious in your outlook for next year if fuel margins revert to more normal levels.
But your outlook for the fourth quarter I think is around 10% EPS growth if I use the midpoint of the range.
So first as a comment I would have thought the benefit from fuel could be potentially even higher in the fourth quarter based on the difference between the retail pump prices and wholesale prices and then looking at the year-over-year comparisons.
So I was curious if you had any comment on that.
And then apart from fuel are there any reasons why you're guiding to earnings growth lower in Q4 on a sequential basis? It would be primarily where fuel has been.
Also keep in mind our LIFO charge continues to go up throughout the year and that's a bit of a headwind to earnings per share as well and the single reason for the conversation about 2015 and again I remind you we use the word 'if' because it's difficult to project it's really just a headwind that fuel potentially represents 23 – a little over $0.23 margin on fuel.
We've been in the fuel business a long time and I personally don't remember a time where we've had anywhere near that kind of a number and it's really difficult to predict where that may go.
And again we're trying to be transparent and let everybody know what we're thinking.
And what the key assumption is.
Yes.
What the key assumption is.
Right.
As a follow-up I think in November you cycled the snap reductions from last year.
Is that a material benefit at all in terms of how you are looking at it? And then are you factoring in any recent changes in the competitive environment or shift in behavior by the consumer around the holidays into your fourth quarter outlook? When you look at Snap when you look at that customer overall their spending may have been down on Snap specifically the customers are using and have been using more of their own cash.
So when you look at that like customer base it actually increased.
Hopefully that customer increased spending in cash is driven because their economic situation is better.
That we don't know.
But that's been up all year and we continue to see the household spending for Snap household increase.
It's not increasing at the same rate as the overall company but it is going up.
Okay.
And finally you may have mentioned this previously but did you disclose the quarter-to-date comps the actual figure? No we did not.
Just said that is -- High end.
High end of our range for the quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ajay.
Our next question is from Stacie Rabinowitz of ConsumerEdge Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
You had mentioned that you were actually thinking about specific categories for further price investment.
And I was wondering if you could elaborate on those and then the extent to which either the increasing protein prices or the decreasing gas prices are changing how you're thinking about where you're investing in price? We're very guarded about our plans and where we would invest in price because we don't want to announce to our competitors where we plan to become more competitive.
So we hold that very close to our vest.
Are you seeing anything so far as the gas prices are dropping in terms of shifts in where consumers are being more or less price sensitive? Not in any big way.
Okay.
Our next question is from the line of -- We'll have time for one more question.
Thank you.
The last question will come from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thank you for squeezing that in.
Only because it's you.
I appreciate it.
I'll ask another natural foods question.
I think you mentioned earlier that you're seeing more conversions people who weren't shopping customers who weren't shopping the category coming into it.
So if you would if you could some of your segmentation work kind of elaborate on is that segment sort of driving the current growth you are seeing contrast that to maybe folks who are already shopping the department and the penetration rates? And the third category if you would address it is there's been a prevailing theory for a long time that supermarkets like Kroger would kind of see at a natural foods shop and then some point if they really converted to that life-style would lose them to Whole Foods or an independent or somebody who could fulfill their whole basket.
So I don't know if you're willing to talk about it but are you trying to address that and are you seeing as they get to some point like hey half their basket is this and all of a sudden they drop out so if you would address that question that would be terrific to hear your response.
Well there's about four questions in that question.
But the last piece the folks we have converted I think if we can continue to offer the products selection at the prices they are willing to pay I think we can maintain them.
I don't have data to really support if they leave and go to competitors.
But some of the things we're doing around the country with vitamin shops in our stores and really well-done expanded natural foods selection offering and we've worked really hard on price in the whole natural and organic area too.
So we are the number two retailer for natural and organic sales today and we just are going to continue to push hard.
We love that customer.
And they are really a great customer for us.
You shouldn't expect us to willingly give up any customer and when you look at the products a lot of the natural food competitor's offer you can find the exact same item at Kroger and as a general rule at a very good value.
You want to add? The last piece is it's a large and growing segment of people who are trying to eat healthier but they want to do so at a reasonable price and I think historically it hasn't been that way.
And today you can shop for natural and organic and do it at a fairly reasonable price and we are really trying to continue to make that offering both selection and price.
Okay.
Just a follow-up because I know it was a long question.
What about this trend you cited for – is there an acceleration in new users folks who are dabbling for the first time? Definitely.
There are people moving into the category new customers entering natural organic and healthy foods all the time again a lot of it's because selection is better I think for us and pricing is much stronger.
But it's kind of interesting.
A large part of our customers that switch over is because some items they think taste better.
Actually is driven by the taste and in some situations it's driven by the innovation of the product.
So it's not just exclusively people wanting to live and just buy and eat natural products and organics.
It's much broader than that.
It's one of the things that we get excited about having a store that has a lot of flexibility in it is that we can change what's inside the store based on what the customers' needs are and how those change.
So we're excited about the category and we're excited about the potential even more.
Okay.
And just on the guidance very quick it's probably been asked but I'll ask it again.
If you take out the gas this year in Harris Teeter's accretion at least you gave range it looks like you're coming in around the high end of the 8% to 11% secular growth or maybe at the high end or a little better for the core business ex those two.
And as you look at guiding to next year towards the lower end is it more you know normalization of sales trends and maybe inflation or more gas – you can't budget gas the same level as this year as you are just sort of putting out this broad look to the lower end as sort of early guidance? As I said earlier if you were to look at – if you were to strip out the core grocery business it would be higher in the range but when you add the fuel in the fuel margins revert to the mean it would be the fuel that's driving it down.
Thanks Andy.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Rodney McMullen for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Before we end today's call I would like to say a few words about Dave Dillon who is listening in this morning.
All of you know Dave well and this is his last official meeting as Kroger's Chairman.
Dave has been a friend and a leader to all of us and a mentor to many of us.
Thousands of associates can relate to that comment.
For me personally Dave has been a partner like no other.
On behalf of the entire Kroger family we wish Dave and his family all the best as they begin the next chapter together.
Dave thank you from all of us.
Finally I would like to share some thoughts about our associates listening in.
During the next few weeks there will be a lot of activity in our stores as we help customers prepare for their holiday celebrations.
Thank you for helping make the holidays brighter for our customers and the communities we serve and live in.
During Kroger's season of giving with your help and the help from our customers we will donate 30 million meals to local food banks.
Customers will have the opportunity to add their support by dropping change into coin boxes at check stands and donating non-perishable food in collection barrels in stores.
Thank you for all that you do for our customers and each other.
Merry Christmas Happy Holidays to you and your family.
That completes our call today.
Thanks for joining.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Kroger Company Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our fourth quarter press release which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures discussed today and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
I will now turn the call over to Rodney McMullen Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Rodney? Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results are Mike Ellis Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
2014 was an outstanding year for Kroger.
First let me say how proud I am to work with such a great and outstanding team of associates.
Each of them deserves a round of applause for improving our connection with all customers and growing our core business right in line with our growth strategy.
Second I am pleased to report that we kept our commitments to you our shareholders.
As you know the growth plan we first outlined in October of 2012 includes four key performance indicators: positive identical supermarket sales growth slightly expanding non-fuel FIFO operating margin growing return on invested capital and annual market share growth.
In 2014 we met or exceeded each of these metrics.
At the end of the year we achieved an industry-leading 45th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth without fuel.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four-quarter basis.
We improved return on invested capital even as we increased capital investment.
And we captured incremental market share for the 10th consecutive year.
Strong performance means strong shareholder returns.
We exceeded our long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate of 8% to 11% in fiscal 2014 and we increased our dividend for the eighth consecutive year since we reinstated our dividend.
Because we've been delivering this level high level of performance consistently and for so long it can start to look easy or be taken for granted.
It is important to know that our associates are committed to our continued success today and for the future.
We made progress on the other key elements of our growth strategy as well.
We are innovating to grow.
We expanded our digital capabilities to deepen our relationship with customers in new and exciting ways.
More customers than ever before are engaging on our digital properties.
The learnings from both our Vitacost and Harris Teeter mergers are allowing us to build an experience that gives the customer our customers the ability to interact with us when where and how they want.
Our Corporate Brand team keeps pushing the boundaries on what customers can expect from store brands.
Our leading natural and organics brand Simple Truth hit a $1 billion in annual sales for the first time in less than two years after the introduction.
We are investing to grow in both new and existing markets.
We continue to pursue our fill-in strategy and are making good progress.
Our mergers with Harris Teeter and Vitacost.com have opened new markets that present meaningful growth opportunities for Kroger.
We continue to create jobs.
Today we proudly employ nearly 25 000 more associates than we did last year at this time.
Every day we are creating opportunities for both new and current employees.
Our strong across-the-board results during fiscal 2014 allowed us to make a strategic and significant contribution to The Kroger Co.
Foundation this year.
We use our foundation dollars to support causes that our customers consistently tell us they care about that enhances our reputation as a locally-connected retailer.
We are very proud that Forbes magazine previously recognized our work by naming us the most generous company in America.
This contribution will allow Kroger to continue to support our key priorities including hunger relief breast cancer awareness the military and their families and local community organizations.
We are proud to make this investment to continue our efforts to support our customers and the communities that support our growth.
Kroger customers are increasingly positive about the economy since late last year through the new year.
They are feeling more comfortable with their discretionary spending in part due to the low retail price of fuel.
Even so how our customers are doing today depends on the stability of their family's finances.
Customers' perceptions of the economic recovery are still very much divided.
And yet we continue to deepen loyalty with all of our customers.
That is because whatever the external factors are at play at a given time be it inflation in certain commodities fluctuating fuel prices or unemployment we adjust to win with the customer.
So while inflation affected fuel costs through 2014 our personalized offers weekly promotions and price investments helped customers stretch their dollars.
We are currently investing $3.5 billion annually in lower prices.
Even though natural and organic foods have been notoriously out of reach for many customers we used our merchandising expertise manufacturing base and buying power to make them affordable and accessible to all customers through Simple Truth which continues to see double-digit sales growth.
And while customers will always have evolving expectations for convenience we have improved our prepared food offering to meet their changing needs as well.
Like a great meal there is no single characteristic that makes Kroger great; rather it is the sum of its parts.
It is the combination of food and drink people and atmosphere surprise and delight that makes a great meal great.
And it is that combination of factors that our associates bring together the sum of our parts that explains why Kroger is so successful.
Before I turn it over to Mike Ellis I wanted to let you know that both the Harris Teeter and Vitacost mergers are going very well thanks to the incredible people at both companies.
Mike will have more to say about these and our operational performance.
Mike? Thanks Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
This was a great quarter capping off a really great year.
Our associates make everything happen and they knocked it out of the park this year on several fronts.
We achieved an outstanding fourth quarter ID sales growth without fuel of 6%.
As Rodney pointed out in our press release this morning while improved fuel margins contributed significantly to our reported results in the second half of the year our operating performance without fuel shows that our associates are continuing to deepen our relationship with customers in very meaningful ways.
The better our connection with customers the better our shareholder returns.
Our identical sales performance was supported by robust performance in every department and every supermarket division.
Natural foods meat deli and pharmacy departments all posted double-digit identical sales growth.
For the tenth year in a row we lowered costs and reinvested those savings to improve our store experience.
It's no surprise that Kroger captured more share of the massive food market also for the tenth year in a row.
Our consistent market share gains drive top and bottom line growth and generate lasting shareholder value.
We report on market share annually and look at it as the customers would look at it where they spend their money.
Last year we began using Nielsen POS+ a Kroger term for Nielsen data that includes all point-of-sale data from several competitors and includes all departments inside our stores except for pharmacy.
The data is generated by retailers who report their sales to Nielsen.
This includes all major food drug mass and dollar competitors as well as most club competitors.
It does not include C-stores.
Nielsen POS+ captures roughly 85% of the items we sell including UPC-coded items PLU and random weight items making it a really good and consistent source.
According to Nielsen POS+ data Kroger's overall market share of the products we sell in the markets where we operate grew approximately 60 basis points during fiscal 2014.
This data also indicates that our share increased in 18 markets of the 20 markets outlined by the Nielsen report and was down slightly in just two markets.
Walmart is one of our top competitors in 15 markets of the 20 markets outlined in the Nielsen report.
Kroger share increased in all of those markets.
In addition to market share growth we regularly measure our loyal household growth because it lets us know how well we are connecting with our best customers.
During the fourth quarter we continued to grow the number of loyal households and at a much faster rate than total household growth which was also up for the quarter.
Customers are buying fewer units per basket but visiting our stores more frequently.
This is consistent with the trend for the past several quarters.
Inflation continued in pharmacy and among commodities such as meat during the fourth quarter.
We estimate product inflation was 3.5% excluding fuel for the fourth quarter.
In 2015 we expect the strong tonnage growth that we saw in the fourth quarter to continue.
We've talked a lot this year about our Corporate Brands growth and success.
That trend continued in the fourth quarter with Corporate Brands representing 28.2% of total units sold the highest level in at least seven years and 25.8% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
The star of course has been Simple Truth.
And in 2014 Simple Truth reached an amazing milestone by hitting a $1.2 billion annual sales mark.
Simple Truth has been our most successful brand launch ever reaching billion dollar brand status in less than two short years.
During the year more than 20 million households bought one or more of our 2 688 Simple Truth or Simple Truth Organic items.
The brand continues to earn double-digit unit and sales growth which we don't see ending anytime soon.
Shifting gears we just completed our first year since merging with Harris Teeter and our integration efforts have been fantastic.
We are creating synergies both ways and we are learning new ways to connect with our customers.
The Harris Teeter team is great and both they and our General Office teams have done an outstanding job in working together.
Also we are six months into the Vitacost merger and our integration is going well.
We continue to discover new ways to use Vitacost as a strategic advantage.
We already have a strong Natural Foods business and Vitacost is helping us get better in that category.
A cornerstone of our ability to deliver successful mergers is partnering with businesses that share our cultures and values.
This makes it easy to share ideas between each other.
Harris Teeter and Vitacost both illustrate that point.
Finally I will provide a brief update on labor relations.
We are currently negotiating in Louisville and with the Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
During 2015 we will also negotiate agreements with the UFCW for store associates in Columbus Denver Las Vegas Memphis and Portland Oregon.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitability which will help us create more jobs and more career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
We have very positive momentum with our customers associates and communities as we move into 2015.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger's growth metrics and financial results as well as our guidance for 2015.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I share our fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 results there are a few things to keep in mind about fiscal 2014.
There are two items that we are adjusting our full year results for: charges incurred in the first quarter related to the restructuring of certain pension obligations to help stabilize associates' future benefits; and certain tax benefits that we enjoyed in the third quarter.
A lot of other things happened throughout the year as well including: low retail fuel prices and unusually-high fuel margins; a LIFO charge that was significantly higher in 2014 than in 2013; a $55 million contribution to our UFCW Consolidated Pension Plan in the fourth quarter; and as Rodney mentioned we contributed $85 million to the company's charitable foundation throughout the year $60 million of which was in the fourth quarter.
Now I'll share our fourth quarter results.
Please note that Kroger's operating results include Harris Teeter in the fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 but not in the fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 which affects many year-over-year comparisons.
Total sales in the fourth quarter were $25.2 billion an increase of 8.5%.
Excluding fuel total sales increased 14.2%.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter totaled $518 million or $1.04 per diluted share.
We recorded a $9 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $10 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
FIFO gross margin was comparable to the same period last year excluding retail fuel operations.
Total operating expenses excluding retail fuel operations the contributions to the pension and foundation and the adjustment items decreased 15 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the same period last year.
Before I move on to discuss Kroger's full-year 2014 results I'll share some data on our fuel operations which includes our supermarket fuel and C-store business.
In the fourth quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.234 compared to $0.113 in the same quarter last year.
For the full year the cents per gallon fuel margin was roughly $0.19 compared to $0.141 last year.
Going forward we expect fuel margins to return to historical averages.
Turning now to Kroger's full-year results for 2014.
Kroger reported total sales of $108.5 billion in 2014 an increase of 10.3%.
Excluding fuel total sales increased 12.9% over the prior year.
Identical supermarket sales without fuel increased 5.2% in 2014 compared to the prior fiscal year.
Net earnings for 2014 totaled $1.73 billion or $3.44 per diluted share.
Excluding the 2014 adjustment items net earnings for 2014 totaled $1.77 billion or $3.52 per diluted share.
It is important to note that if you look at adjusted EPS excluding fuel it was at the high end of our long-term growth rate even with the contributions to the pension and foundation included.
So while fuel margins get a lot of attention our non-fuel business had a spectacular year.
Kroger's LIFO charge for 2014 was $147 million significantly higher than 2013 due to higher product costs.
FIFO gross margin for 2014 excluding retail fuel operations declined 3 basis points.
As Mike said strong identical supermarket sales and cost controls allowed Kroger to reduce operating expenses as a rate of sales for our tenth consecutive year.
Total operating expenses for 2014 excluding retail fuel operations the contributions to the pension and foundation and the adjustment items decreased 13 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
FIFO operating margin for 2014 excluding those same items increased 10 basis points compared to the prior fiscal year.
Kroger's strong EBITDA performance resulted in a return on invested capital for fiscal 2014 of 13.74% compared to 13.43% for fiscal 2013.
For 2015 our planned uses of cash remain unchanged: maintain our current investment grade debt rating repurchase shares fund the dividend and increase capital investments.
In connection with our merger with Harris Teeter we committed to getting back to a 2 times to 2.2 times net total debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio by mid-to-late fiscal 2015.
I'm pleased to report that we achieved our objective earlier than anticipated due to strong fiscal 2014 operating results.
As of the close of the fourth quarter net total debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 2.15 times compared to 2.43 times during the same period last year as described in Table 5 of the press release.
Based on our current 2015 expectations we should maintain a ratio below the 2.2 times target throughout the year.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $2.8 billion for the year compared to $2.3 billion in 2013.
For 2015 we expect capital investments to be in the $3 billion to $3.3 billion range.
As you know part of our long-term growth strategy is to increase capital investments over time.
New store openings are meeting our expectations.
We have a great pipeline of high quality projects that we expect to allow this result to continue.
We will allocate more of this spend to increase square footage in our fill-in markets.
We have now identified eight markets for fill-in opportunities this is up from six.
Our excitement for this activity continues to grow.
Kroger's strong financial position allowed the company to return more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends.
During the year Kroger repurchased 28.4 million common shares for a total investment of $1.3 billion.
As of February 27 2015 Kroger has approximately $432 million remaining under the $500 million share repurchase authority granted in June 2014.
Now I would like to outline our specific growth objectives for fiscal 2015.
We anticipate identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 3% to 4% for fiscal 2015.
This range takes into account several factors.
It is early in the year our outlook for inflation is lower than actual inflation last year and we expect our strong trend in unit growth to continue in 2015.
Full-year net earnings for fiscal 2015 are expected to range from $3.80 to $3.90 per diluted share.
This equates to Kroger's long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate of 8% to 11% growing off of 2014 adjusted earnings of $3.52 per diluted share.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend that is expected to increase over time.
As we think about the growth in 2015 we expect fuel margins to return to historical averages we are not planning for similar contributions to the pension or foundation and we expect LIFO to be lower than it was in 2014.
We are anticipating inflation without fuel of 1% to 2% and the actual amount will be driven primarily by inflation in meat and pharmacy.
So while fuel margins will be a headwind in 2015 we expect they will be offset by a lower LIFO charge no planned contributions to the pension plan and our foundation and the continued strength in our core business.
For the full year our expectation is that we will be in the middle portion of the range.
As we look at quarter comparisons in relation to our 8% to 11% annual growth rate we believe quarter one will be in the range quarters two and three will be slightly above the range and quarter four will be below the range.
And as we expect Kroger's full-year operating profit margin in 2015 excluding fuel to expand slightly compared to 2014 results.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
I'm so proud of our team.
We fulfilled our commitments to our customers associates shareholders and bondholders in 2014.
Kroger captured more share of the massive food market and continued to invest in growing our business.
We created thousands of new jobs and hired more than 6 000 veterans last year.
While we are very proud of this outstanding year we are committed to even more.
As I mentioned at our Investor Day our to-do list remains longer than our done list.
Now we look forward to your questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question today will come from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
So guys a few things.
I think you said $3.5 billion of annual investment in price was that right? And what do you include in there? Is that merely price reductions promotions or something else? Is that sustainable? Do you think you can do $3.5 billion a year? And then what happens to the elasticity of the return over time? Do the returns remain high on that investment? Yeah the $3.5 billion John that you heard us talk about yes that's an annual number.
And that's the annual number in 2014.
Now if you look at – obviously we started the journey about 10 years ago of taking costs out of the business and taking that – as we take costs out of the business giving the customer better value both in everyday price and promotional.
We would – we see it as our strategy to continue that as we take costs out of the business.
We'll continue to give that to the customer in a combination of service and price based on what we see the opportunities to be.
We are very satisfied with the elasticity of the demand side as we invest in price.
Obviously we have a tremendous amount of data that we have developed internally to make sure that we're investing that in the right place where we get the best return.
So we would see it sustainable and it is part of our continued strategy.
I don't know Mike anything you want to add? No.
I think that's it Rodney.
Okay.
So as far as you can tell there's enough things to invest in that the return will remain – you think it'll remain what it's been as far as the eye can see it sounds like.
Absolutely.
And every category would have different results and that's one of the values of our insight is understanding that.
All right and then just one for Mike Schlotman.
I know you guys have liked a front-end loaded buyback program right for the productivity that gives you throughout the year.
Is that the idea this year? Is that sort of embedded in the guidance that a lot of it'll be done in the first half? Yeah I would say the day-to-day market conditions will wind up dictating when we make those investments but I would point out the fact that at the end of – when we had our conference call in December we had not used any of the $500 million buyback authorization.
And from my comments today we have used some now.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
Our next question will come from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a nice quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
So I just want start maybe with the center store trends.
We've heard from a number of large CPG players just about challenges and there's some in the center store categories.
So I wanted to get a sense whether you guys are seeing the same thing or any more color what's happening there? Well actually our center store has performed better in the fourth quarter than it had in other quarters in 2014 and we've done a lot of work in relaying our center store getting things refreshed new products in and it's been a big focus of us to using customer insights and really going through our stores and doing the work that's around assortment that's really effective.
The other thing that's – a lot of the CPGs would have something different than what we would have is on a lot of the natural food items do you include that in center store or a separate department? And it's getting increasingly complicated because there are certain categories where natural foods is almost as big as the historical business.
So it's a short question but hard to answer.
For us we're completely focused on what is it that the customer wants.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then switching gears maybe to the Simple Truth brand you achieved your target this year for sales of more than $1 billion do you have any new targets out there and is it getting more difficult to get the supply for that business? Supply has been an issue in certain areas but when you have over 2 600 items we have a great base of product today and we're going to continue to expand that.
But for the most part in some of the perishable areas there's been a supply issue or two but we've been able to really take care of the customer and I don't foresee anything this year and in the near future.
But certain categories will always have some tightness on supply especially at the front end as farmers transition over to growing more of the organic or natural product.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I have made – this is a question for Mike.
Which one? Inc.</span></strong> Oh sorry.
That's right Mike Schlotman.
Question about labor negotiations.
The very strong performance of the company do you think that makes it harder for you to get the unions to go along with what you want? Or are they maybe the better bigger question is are they pushing for wage increases? If you look at our average wage of our hourly associates in the store it's nearly $14 an hour and if you look at the total benefit package our associates enjoy it's even stronger than that.
It varies obviously by geography and particular contract.
We've been on the forefront not only with a good solid wage.
We've had – we've been very upfront with the unions and have done a lot of things to protect the future pension benefits of our associates which others aren't doing out there.
It's not just the big one we did two years or three years ago we did some more smaller ones in the first quarter this year and it wouldn't surprise me if there will be others that we wind up doing in the future.
If you look overall we are adding jobs.
We added 25 000 jobs last year.
We're up to 400 000 jobs.
One of the things that we like to say around Kroger is a lot of people particularly part-time workers that are under 18 they come to Kroger looking for a job and they stay for a career.
If you look around the ranks of our store managers two thirds of them started out as hourly part-time hourly associates in our store.
And that really just talks to the fabric of Kroger and how well we treat our associates overall.
So it's more than just about the wages.
There's a lot more behind-the-scenes of what those associates look for when they come to Kroger.
Plus what you make today is something different than you will make as you get promoted throughout your career and take on more responsibility.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> And then changing gears maybe just talk a little bit about the tests you have of "click and collect" in Cincinnati? Maybe it's too early to say anything but are you feeling good about how that's going? Well it is too early to say anything Meredith but the learnings that we have from Harris Teeter is really helping us develop our plans on how we're going to go forward.
And Harris Teeter has had a very successful business for – well they started over 10 years ago in the "click and collect" world.
And we've learned a lot and it's really helping us accelerate our learning and growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Meredith.
The next question comes from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Great quarter.
Thanks Karen.
Thanks Karen.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a little color I guess following on John Heinbockel's question in terms of share buybacks obviously your guidance for fiscal 2015 is very strong given the tailwind that you're going to have in gas margins.
So I mean maybe a little color on how much of this is buyback related versus core EBIT growth.
I don't know if you can just elaborate a little bit on that? Yeah I won't get that granular on the model.
From an expectation standpoint you should have the expectation we'll probably spend a little bit less on share buyback during – in terms of dollars in 2015 versus 2014.
We are increasing our expectations for capital spend by a few hundred million dollars more because of the great pipeline of projects I spoke of in the prepared comments.
And that's what we think we would believe is the driver for growth in the future.
Keep in mind back in October of 2012 we said for the first couple of years of this new growth model we would have 25% – a quarter to a one-third of our EPS growth may come from share buybacks but that would decline over time as we continue to open successful stores in our fill-in markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just looking at the year in general so when I look at obviously how strong this year was can you maybe try to frame how much of it was Harris Teeter related in terms of Harris Teeter outperforming what your original guidance was on accretion? I mean obviously let's exclude fuel from the conversation.
And then just following on that is when we start to model comps throughout the year any color on how we should think of how Harris Teeter now that it's in the comp base how that'll impact the comp throughout the year? Well I won't give specifics on Harris Teeter.
I would say that they added a little bit more to earnings per share than our original expectations for the year.
They had a phenomenal year they also helped the core at Kroger with some ideas that they have done historically and helped the core Kroger have a very strong year as well.
Relative to the comp cadence throughout the year even though we only had Harris Teeter as a business for this year we included them in our comp base all year using their 2013 sales so the sales numbers we reported during 2014 actually included Harris Teeter as though we had owned them in 2013.
So there won't be a big inflection point in ID sales from including Harris Teeter going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Even though the comps might have been pressured from investing in price? They – again their ID sales were included in our 2014 results.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
So going forward they'll continue to be in there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
So – sorry yeah? I was just going to add to Mike's thing.
If you look at Harris Teeter delivered more than we were expecting and that was driven because of their strong operations and synergies but fuel obviously drove it but if you look at the core Kroger even without those two items we still exceeded as well.
So it was really all three pieces that drove the strong results.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And next we have a question from Ed Kelly of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Again congratulations as well on a nice quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
First question just for Mike Schlotman.
On the cadence of the EPS growth next year Mike you mentioned Q1 being in line with the range for the year.
I guess I would've thought that maybe it would have been better because the fuel comparison is obviously easier there.
You still get the benefit from the repo in the first quarter and the share count and then I would imagine that your comps are probably stronger earlier in the year than later.
Could you just maybe help us understand why Q1 would just be in line? At this point that's – we had a very very strong first quarter last year.
So we are comping off of that.
I agree that there will still be some residual benefit in the first quarter from the share buyback but that was very front-end loaded last year.
And we'll – and as I said earlier we'll buy less shares back this year than last year.
So the combination of those the way we bought it back last year did help the first quarter a bit.
It's a lot of it lines up depending on a huge number of factors and we just recently finalized our business plan by quarter based off of how the year wound up and what our expectations are for the various quarters and the best answer I can give you is we're trying to be transparent about how our operators and so forth feel about the cadence throughout the year.
And that's what our expectations are.
There's a lot of factors that go into it.
LIFO certainly will play a factor of how and when we get expense charges in the quarter.
As you know we increased our LIFO charge throughout the year and then it came down in the fourth quarter so if our estimate for LIFO is accurate this year the second quarter and third quarter will be helped a little bit by a lower LIFO charge as compared to the prior year.
So there's lots of things that wind up going into building that model.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just a follow up and this is just on your IDs generally.
Your IDs typically have outpaced the industry for a very long time but it does seem like more recently that this gap has widened.
And I guess what I'm trying to ask you is is there anything that you can identify that you think has driven that acceleration? For instance you saw a windfall in fuel in the back half.
Have you been able to use some of those proceeds to help you around the pricing front or the other things that have maybe helped this acceleration in the outperformance to the industry? Ed it's a question that actually we've spent a little bit of time trying to think through internally and probably the biggest thing is our associates our store teams and all the people that support our stores they continue to do a better job of helping serve our customers on a daily basis.
Everything from making sure products are fresher to making sure that we treat our customers right.
And we really do believe we had a great foundation in place and our associates really are taking it up to the next level in terms of how they're taking care of our customers.
And we think that that's what's the thing that's really been successful and we really appreciate what our associates are doing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Ed.
The next question is from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on very nice end to the year.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask about natural organic which as you mentioned of course continues to see some nice growth Simple Truth being the main contributor to that.
But outside of Simple Truth can you sort of give any other color in terms of maybe some other category or brand growth within and in particular maybe any early color around Vitacost? Any cross selling or expansion there? Great question.
Within Natural Foods there's so many categories that customers are connecting with today that gets stronger and stronger from dairy products gluten-free we could go on and on.
And our ability to cross-merchandise some of those products throughout the store I think has made some of those products more available in a broader way to a larger customer base.
We keep talking about the blurring of departments and Natural Foods is becoming more and more mainstream for many people.
So it's really broad-based when you look at where the growth is and we're trying all kinds of new things to make these types of products more available to our customers every day.
On Vitacost we love what we have and it's a solid platform and we plan to do other things with that over time.
And I think you'll be seeing some things in the near future.
Okay all right.
Fair enough.
And then just as a follow-up maybe switching over quickly to Harris Teeter.
Are all Harris Teeter stores now having the "click and collect" capability? And also I know that you started in your Harris Teeter (42:44) in one region.
Any further plans for roll out that you could talk to for this year this coming year? Well we're still at beta testing in one store here in Cincinnati.
But at Harris Teeter we're at about a 160-some stores that are currently offering that to the customer.
And I'll tell you what the growth is exciting.
Customers love the service and the numbers continue to grow.
We're setting new records at Harris Teeter all the time on more customers shopping this – in this way and it's a big part of our strategy going forward.
Okay all right.
Fair enough.
Thanks very much.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And next we have a question from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question and gosh someone ate their wheaties this fourth quarter...
I hear a headline coming.
I just used it maybe.
But so my question is actually more strategic.
As we kind of take a step back you said a couple of things $3.5 billion of investment in price kind of ongoing.
I think Mike Schlotman you said you pushed up that CapEx growth rate a little bit again.
So my question really goes to the top line growth of this organization.
I mean is it time we accelerated it further? It seems like it's gone on a little bit but I mean is it time we continued to push? I was talking to one investor who said Kroger is kind of the Costco with the grocery industry at this stage where they continuously reinvest.
So what's your thought? I mean is the growth rate what should we think of as ongoing topline growth rate? Can it go higher? How do we get it higher? Is this something that the company is thinking about? Well Scott it's a great question and it's certain something we think about.
And the investor you're talking to please pass along our appreciation for the complement because we have a great deal of respect for Costco.
We think about it a lot.
In terms of I guess I would really say use your model to figure out how to accelerate the growth.
As you know we continue to accelerate the number of new stores and we continue to try to make sure that our identical store sales stay strong.
So I think that would automatically cause a continuation of an increasing growth rate.
But we've spent a tremendous amount of energy and efforts on trying to accelerate our growth at a pace that makes sense for our organization.
And one of the keys is we have to make sure we have developed associates to be able to handle the accelerated growth as well.
And since they are and we've talked about this before Rodney I appreciate that answer there has kind of become a Kroger way a Kroger model driven by I think you're just advantaged in big data.
How do you get that model into more consumers' hands in markets maybe that you're not in? I mean you really haven't expanded I guess Harris Teeter did it for you but I mean do you agree that there's a superior model now and it would be advantageous for the company to bring it to more markets? I was going to answer the question until you said the last part.
We'll still let him answer though.
We wouldn't ever think that we have a superior way and all we're really focused on is how to get a little bit better tomorrow than we were yesterday.
And for us that would probably be the biggest part of the Kroger way is really trying to understand what the customers' wants and needs are and trying to get a little bit better at delivering against those.
And over time numerous times we've said anything that's available out there you should assume that we've looked at it and it's really making sure that we find something that adds value for our shareholders and something that we think the teams fit in well with Kroger and we can do something for the customer that they don't already have.
And when you look at Harris Teeter it checked all those boxes and the Harris Teeter team was just amazing.
But on smaller scale Vitacost has been the same way and on a real small scale YOU Tech has been the same thing.
So it's really we're constantly trying to look at things that add new growth for us.
Perfect.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Scott.
And next we have a question from Robert Ohmes of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was hoping you – sort of a broad follow-up question from what everybody else has been asking.
2014 you guys have characterized as somewhat unusually good year.
Can you sort of walk us through some of the things that could continue? Sort of the puts and takes on 2015 and why or why not it could or could not be another unusually kind of good year and sort of the areas what I was hoping you would cover is things like the comp contribution from natural foods.
Is that slowing in 2015 versus 2014? The competitive environment seemed to maybe be a little less competitive in 2014 for a lot of food retailers.
What does that feel like right now as you look out? And then maybe a little more color on the puts and takes in inflation.
Is there anything that could keep inflation from decelerating sequentially as you move through the year? And then the fourth part would be customer trade up.
Was that a significant support to your accelerating comps in 2014? And could that continue in 2015 as a driver? Thanks.
Hey one very long question.
If I ask you to repeat parts of those I was trying to scribble them down and as everybody here at Kroger knows when I write slowly it's hard to read my penmanship.
Rodney took better notes apparently.
The first point on what – the broad question we obviously get very thoughtful and step back pretty far when we think about where we should set our expectations for a particular year.
We've become very careful and protective of the overall business model that we've developed and that focus on the customer is front and center.
And as we decide what EBITDA growth rate and earnings-per-share growth rate is appropriate to ask our divisions and our different operating units to generate during a particular fiscal year that's first and foremost.
We really don't start necessarily with here's what the answer has to be.
It's what can the answer be and how do we actually build a model that winds up generating that.
From a comp standpoint there's numbers of factors that can go into where the IDs can wind up being.
One of those that you mentioned was inflation.
We are expecting a little bit less inflation.
That said as you know we have a very large and robust pharmacy business.
That was a huge driver of the LIFO charge this year.
Where that winds up in 2015 is purely a guess at this point.
As I've said oftentimes if we've done nothing else the ability to predict a LIFO charge is something that is difficult at best.
You mentioned competition.
I don't think competition is benign by any stretch of the imagination but I'd say it's relatively consistent.
It's always highly competitive.
You never know what a competitor is going to do.
We certainly assume that the current competitive condition is not going to get better than it is today.
And it's always been a highly competitive industry there's always new people trying to take part of your business that have different operating models whether it's a Sprouts or those kinds of operators or Publix coming into Charlotte like they have trying to take part of Harris Teeter's business.
And we build a model to defend our turf no matter where those folks try to come.
When you looked at customer trade up I would say it's somewhat – there's a lot of things out there that are affecting broad customer base.
Certainly I think we probably would've seen some trade up from the customer who has been less affected by the downturn in the economy over the last several years probably spending a little bit more money in a variety of outlets certainly some of ours.
I would say that customer who has been on a budget for the last several years they probably aren't spending a whole lot more money on being big contributors to a consumer-driven economy.
They're probably able to take care of some of the bills that they manage on a monthly basis trying to remember which one they're going to push off for a little while and they've probably been able to be a little bit more current on your bills but not a whole lot more disposable income.
So it's a pretty big mixed bag out there.
Certainly where fuel costs are going to wind up and a whole lot of other factors enter into it.
I know I've been going on for a bit here but it's a long and difficult – one the question was long but there's not a precise answer to say it's A and B and that's what drives the final answer.
We take in a lot of factors as we plan a year and think about how it's going to wind up being.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful Mike.
Just the one area just the one last area that I want to ask about so on natural foods you guys had big increases in square footage allocation to that space very noticeable the last couple of years.
I think that's slowed a lot.
Should we expect less tailwind from natural foods to your comps in 2015 versus what you've seen in the last couple years? I think you're going to continue to see great growth in natural foods.
It's more of a way of life for our customer today.
Okay.
The other thing is that in certain categories we are starting to integrate it rather than put it in a separate space as well.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Robert.
And next we have a question from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for the question.
A couple can you help us a bit with how QTV comp trends are proceeding either quantitatively or qualitatively? And I guess similarly on 1Q fuel margins to date any sort of flow-through margin help or have retail prices come down enough to maybe offset wholesale ones at this point? If you look at our identical sales so far this quarter and obviously it's very early in the year because we're just a few weeks into the year.
It would be slightly ahead of the guidance we gave.
But it's very early in the year.
On fuel margins Mike I'll have to let you answer that one because I don't know the answer to that one.
Yeah I don't think we need to talk about weekly fuel margins.
It's difficult enough to predict what a year's going to be let alone four or five weeks because it's such a volatile area.
Just won't go down that path this morning.
No that's fair.
And then my follow-up is you're guiding to inflation being about 1.5% lower than it was in 2014.
Are you talking about maybe a roughly 1.5% deceleration in total ID sales ex-fuel? So always risky embarrassing myself by asking a simple math question but is it fair to assume your guidance is thus implying that everything outside passing along inflation right sort of traffic and basket size you are expecting that to grow at a similar rate in 2015 as 2014 roughly? Yeah as Mike Ellis said in his prepared remarks we had great tonnage growth throughout the year and it accelerated a little bit in the fourth quarter.
And we don't see any reason why that would slow down during the year and it winds up being in our hands to continue that underlying unit growth.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ken.
The next question comes from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
Hi.
Just first wanted to double-check on guidance.
So I think the message for next year is you had the very strong benefit from the fuel margins in the back half but you have lower LIFO none of the pension you don't cycle that pension expense again next year in the foundation expense and so net-net you still can kind of maintain that 8% to 11% earnings growth but it sounds like fuel still may be somewhat of a headwind.
So I don't know if you can maybe parse out the net impact of those factors that were kind of swing factors this year just to help us kind of think about how the guidance for 2015? Yeah if you look at where fuel margins benefited us and we talked about what the fuel margins were for the year you know roughly what our gallons are over time so you can probably figure out the incremental benefit from a margin standpoint on fuel.
So if you think about that normalizing and then LIFO expectation being lower not having the pension contribution or contribution to the charitable foundations they don't perfectly offset one another but they come close to being negating one another and that's why we're growing off of the $3.52 at the 8% to 11%.
Keep in mind all of that information aside our core operations without those would've been at the high end of our 8% to 11% range all by themselves last year and it's really that underlying strength in the core business that gives us the comfort to be able to have another great year in the 8% to 11% range.
Perfect.
That's very helpful.
And then just on the comps for the quarter I think when you were planning the comps for the quarter in Q3 you'd talked about cycling the benefit from the weather.
Just curious what really came in better than expected for the fourth quarter in terms of those core ID comps? Was there a weather benefit? Or did you just kind of hang on to some of those customers that maybe were pushed into your stores last year with the weather or just curious thoughts there.
The weather would not have been as helpful this year as it was prior year.
So it was really hanging on to some of those customers and really the operating merchandising team is doing a great job of making sure that we had strong programs to cycle that weather.
So it was really the team executing doing a great job.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay Kelly.
We'll take one more question.
Okay.
And that final question will come from Mark Wiltamuth of Jefferies.
Hi.
Thank you.
Wanted to get some thoughts now that you're contemplating more of these fill-in markets what should we be thinking about for a longer-term square footage growth rate for you? Because you have been fading off of your store closures so I'm curious what the flow-through is going to be on actual net square footage growth? Yeah it's really difficult to predict exactly how many operational closings you're going to have in a particular year and there's a wide variety of reasons those happen.
But if you look at our gross we expect it to be 2% to 2.5% next year.
Our net was a little bit under 1% last year.
Our store count has been down.
Keep in mind sometimes when we close an under-performing store we may be closing an under-performing store.
It's under-performing because its sales per square foot are at the way low end of a range of what will make that store profitable.
And as we replace that store or open a new store that's larger than that the net square footage may not go up dramatically but the sales per square foot of that new store can often be several multiples of the store we closed.
So it's a little misleading just to say oh square footage growth hasn't been that much so they can't grow sales that much.
The difference between that productivity of the new store and the store we closed can be quite remarkable sometimes.
Okay.
And were there any tax implications from the charitable contribution in the fourth quarter or anything that carries into 2015? No.
Obviously we got a tax deduction for that but it didn't affect the tax rate in any way shape or form.
We've just taken advantage of the opportunity of a very strong year to be able to continue to have dollars to support the efforts that we support both that are important to us and are important to our customers.
Okay.
Well congratulations on a very strong core grocery performance for the quarter and the year.
Thanks Mark.
Thanks Mark.
I want to thank everybody for calling in today and listening to our call.
And before we end the call I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
I'd like to thank all of our associates for their hard work and dedication in serving our customers.
We finished 2014 strong thanks to your commitment in providing friendly service and fresh products to our 8 million customers every time every day.
Thank you to each and every one of you for making a difference with our customers and for each other.
As many of you know our community service awards honor and recognize our associates who through their widespread volunteer activity charitable involvement and leadership make a difference in the communities where we live work and raise our families.
Nominations for our 2014 community service awards are now being accepted.
Whether you support the hungry veterans and active-duty military cancer awareness or your favorite local organization I encourage you to apply or nominate a coworker for this prestigious award.
Winners from each division will receive a donation to their charity of choice.
Make sure you connect with your HR Manager for more information and nomination deadlines in your division.
Thank you for all you do.
Your work in our community is simply amazing.
That completes our call for today.
Thanks for joining.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The Kroger Company first quarter earnings conference call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our first quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
I will now turn the call over to Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rodney McMullen.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
With me to review Kroger's first quarter 2015 results are Mike Ellis Kroger's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Schlotman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Kroger delivered strong first quarter sales and earnings results and we are pleased with our start for the year.
We achieved our 46th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four quarter basis and we continue to invest and innovate to grow our business expanding our use of technology and our digital capabilities.
Kroger has produced consistently remarkable results for so long that it might be easy to take a quarter like this for granted.
But these results don't happen accidentally.
They happen because we lead and drive our business towards these goals.
Customer 1st and our four keys: our people products shopping experience and pricing remains our fundamental strategy.
We strive for balance across these four keys and each quarter we do a little better in each and when we do that consistently for as long as we have our results are more powerful.
Based on the strength of our first quarter results we are raising our identical supermarket sales growth guidance for the year and we are on track to deliver our long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate of 8% to 11% plus the dividend in 2015.
One of the ways we continuously improve the shopping experience is by bringing new technology and digital capabilities to our business.
Mike Ellis will provide an update on several digital efforts in a moment but I wanted to mention what I think is a great example of how we're expanding our use of technology.
Our recent decision to established 84.51° which replaced our previous joint venture dunnhumbyUSA 84.51° is helping us to continue to use data science for the benefit of our customers and to deliver a more personalized experience both in-store and online.
We are so excited to welcome the talented associates at 84.51° to the Kroger team and we are already beginning to see their daily involvement in the business helping to accelerate our efforts.
Just little things like 84.51°CEO Stuart Aitken participating in our senior officer meetings is making a big difference.
We expect 84.51° to be an innovation engine and a game changer for Kroger and our customers.
We are pleased to see the economy moving in the right direction albeit as we've mentioned for several quarters slowly.
One of the important ways we are able to deliver so consistently is that we offer attractive values for all customers all the time.
When you want to splurge you can splurge.
When you want to save you can do that too.
So while Murray's Cheese Starbucks and Boar's Head for example are performing very well so are our entry-level price point brands.
Now I will turn it over to Mike Ellis to outline our operational performance.
Mike? Thank you Rodney.
Good morning everyone.
Our associates continue to deliver an exceptional experience in ways that make a difference for our customers.
Over the past year more customers have noticed improvements in Kroger's product selection product freshness and customer service.
Our strong identical supermarket sales growth was primarily driven by an increase in the number of households shopping with us in the first quarter.
We also met our goal to grow the number of loyal households at even a faster rate than total household growth again in the quarter.
We are especially proud of our loyalty and sales results when you consider the current operating environment that we're in which has less certainty than normal.
We are addressing the volatility we see out there every day.
Fuel margins for example have returned to normal compared to where we ended last year.
Another factor is product costs.
Some commodities are up some are down.
We are seeing deflation in milk produce and seafood which is driving more tonnage volume.
Milk is one of our most price-elastic categories that we have.
When milk prices come down people tend to buy a lot more.
We're at an advantage because we have a vertically integrated supply chain for milk.
When our dairy plants run at higher volume we become more efficient and productive.
We continue to see inflation in generic pharmaceuticals and in certain commodities in the meat department.
Overall inflation continued but at a lower rate during the first quarter which is in line with what we had expected.
Tonnage growth was very strong during the first quarter.
In fact we saw the strongest first quarter tonnage performance since 2010 which is a clear indication of our ability to get pricing right for our customers.
If you look back over the past several years we've had periods of high and low inflation and we've shown that regardless of the environment we will deliver greater value and convenience for our customers.
Corporate Brands had a solid first quarter accelerating company sales growth and representing approximately 26.9% of total units sold and 25.4% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
A key driver of sustainable growth is Customer 1st innovation and as Rodney said we are actively expanding Kroger's use of technology which we see as a catalyst for improving our connection with customers and growing our market share.
Kroger's digital team has developed a popular mobile app that our customers use millions of times each week.
In April we were one of the first food group retailers to release an app that is compatible with the Apple Watch and this month we reached a new milestone more than 2 billion digital coupons have been downloaded from our digital properties since we began offering digital coupons since 2009.
It took four years to reach our first billion and only 15 months to reach our second billion and the third billion will take even less time.
Also this month our Cincinnati division began inviting local customers to try our order online pick up in store solution we are learning from Harris Teeter which we've been beta testing for a few months and is now available in two of our Cincinnati area stores to all customers.
Our integration with Vitacost.com continues to go very well and just this week Vitacost helped us launch a new natural and organic e-commerce website called King Soopers Live Naturally that is open to King Soopers customers who live in and around the Denver metro area.
The website which utilizes Vitacost's technology platform and fulfillment network creates an endless aisle experience with ship-to-home service for thousands of additional health foods vitamins minerals and supplements that are available in our Denver area stores today.
We are excited to see the results of this new pilot program.
And now I will provide a brief update on labor relations.
We recently agreed to new contracts in both Las Vegas and Louisville and we agreed to a master agreement with the Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
Four or five Teamster locals have also ratified this agreement.
We are currently negotiating contracts with the UFCW for store associates in Columbus Denver Memphis and Portland.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising healthcare and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective: growing Kroger's business and profitably which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
Before I turn it over to Mike Schlotman I'd like to say a little more about the culture of opportunity we work hard to create here at Kroger.
Being a Kroger associate means being part of our family part of something bigger.
Every day we hire people who come to Kroger for a job then decide to stay for a career.
In fact two-thirds of our store managers today started as an hourly clerk stocking shelves or bagging groceries.
We continue to increase our investment in training to build skills so our associates are ready for opportunities to advance and lead others.
We offer so much more than a job a chance to connect with their community to be part of a giant team stretching from coast to coast and to work with colleagues who want to make a difference too.
We think this opportunity culture is a differentiator for us today and will continue to be into the future.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger's financial results and update our guidance for 2015.
Mike? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our results for the quarter in each of the key performance target areas for our long-term growth plan.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
We were pleased with our first quarter identical supermarket sales growth of 5.7%.
This strong performance was supported by identical supermarket sales growth in every department and every supermarket division.
We continue to see outstanding double-digit identical sales growth in our natural foods department.
Our meat deli and pharmacy departments also posted strong identical supermarket sales growth.
Rolling four quarters FIFO operating margin excluding fuel the 2014 and 2013 adjustment items and the contributions to the pension and foundation in the third and fourth quarters of 2014 increased by 10 basis points.
This exceeded our commitment to grow the rate slightly over time on a rolling four-quarter basis.
Return on invested capital on a rolling four quarters basis was 14.03%.
We are not presenting the comparative number this quarter because the prior-year first quarter calculation does not include a full year of Harris Teeter assets and results.
We do expect return on invested capital for fiscal 2015 to increase slightly from the fiscal 2014 result.
This is an important metric as we continue to increase our capital investment to drive our future growth.
Now I'll share our first quarter 2015 results in more detail.
As you know we don't provide guidance for total sales because of the unpredictability of fuel margins on our results.
Total sales in the first quarter increased 0.3% to $33.1 billion compared to $33 billion for the same period last year.
Excluding fuel total sales increased 6.4% for the first quarter compared to the same period last year.
In the first quarter our net earnings totaled $619 million or $1.25 per diluted share.
Kroger's net earnings during the first quarter last year included charges related to the restructuring of certain pension obligations to help stabilize associates' future benefits.
Excluding the effect of those charges Kroger's adjusted net earnings in the same period last year were $557 million or $1.09 per diluted share.
We recorded a $28 million LIFO charge during the first quarter consistent with the same quarter last year.
We raised our annual estimate to $90 million from $75 million primarily due to pharmacy inflation.
FIFO gross margin excluding retail fuel operations decreased seven basis points from the same period last year.
Strong identical supermarket sales growth and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses as a rate of sales in the first quarter.
Total operating expenses excluding retail fuel operations and pension agreements decreased 15 basis points as a result of sales compared to the prior year.
This really does demonstrate the leverage of strong ID sales as we simultaneously invested in areas other than price to provide a continually improving shopping experience for our customers but leveraged our ID sales to drive the rate down.
Now for retail fuel operations in the first quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.116 compared to $0.131 in the same quarter last year.
Our long-term financial strategy continues to be: repurchase shares have an increasing dividend fund increasing capital investments and maintain our current investment-grade debt rating.
Our strong financial position has allowed us to return $1.1 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the quarter Kroger repurchased 8 million common shares for a total investment of $585 million.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities totaled $915 million for the first quarter compared to $709 million for the same period last year.
We continue to expect capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities to be in the $3 billion to $3.3 billion range for the year.
Our plan to increase capital investment on an annual basis remains in place.
We were pleased with the early returns from these investments and we continue to have a long list of strong projects that will compete for these investments.
The company's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 2.09 compared to 2.40 during the same period last year.
Kroger's net total debt is $11.3 billion consistent with last year.
It's constructive to understand that we have maintained our absolute debt level while returning $1.1 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters and investing $3 billion in capital on a rolling four-quarter basis plus an additional $411 million on mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
In other words we are keeping our commitments to our bondholders and our shareholders.
Now I'd like to update our growth objectives for 2015.
Based on our strong first quarter results we raised our identical supermarket sales growth guidance excluding fuel to a range of 3.5% to 4.5% for 2015.
The original guidance was 3% to 4%.
We are confirming our net earnings guidance range of $3.80 to $3.90 per diluted share for 2015.
This range is within our long-term net earnings per diluted share growth guidance of 8% to 11%.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend expected to increase over time.
As we look at quarter comparisons in relation to our 8% to 11% annual growth rate we believe that quarter two will be slightly above the range quarter three will be at the high end of the range and quarter four will be below the range.
For the full year we expect to be within the range and it is still somewhat dependent on where fuel margins shake out.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
This is another terrific quarter.
Our associates are making a difference for our customers by providing excellent service and product quality and selection.
As I said earlier results like this don't happen by accident.
We create these results by connecting with our customers through our powerful Customer 1st strategy.
When we take care of our customers we create sustainable value for our shareholders.
Now we look forward to your questions.
At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question will come from Ed Kelly of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning guys and nice quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning too.
So my first question I guess is just related to the guidance so I guess maybe more for Mike.
But obviously you raised your ID guidance for the year.
You had a good strong quarter but you maintained the EPS guidance.
So I'm just curious at this point is it just early and you want to be conservative or are there other incremental offsets that are maybe new? It's a variety of factors Ed.
One it is early in the year.
And as we said in both the release and in the prepared comments the operating environment is a bit volatile right now.
There's a lot of volatility in fuel prices.
They've obviously come in very quickly to a more normal range from where the range was at the end of the year last year.
We know that will be a headwind in the fourth quarter.
It was baked into our original 8% to 11%.
Our actual first quarter results while ahead of the Street were just a little bit over the 8% to 11% range and we had expected to be near the high end of the range ourselves which was our original guidance on cadence.
And then just the volatility of inflation that's out there while we've seen some categories with deflation we know that pharmacy inflation is actually as high as it's been over the last several years in the first quarter.
It's right at double digits.
And then a little bit of concern or thought process about the avian virus with the poultry flocks and how that might affect input costs later in the year and what's going to happen with availability of those products.
So when we stepped back and thought about it while we're pleased with the first quarter we thought the most prudent move given the uncertainty or the volatility of some of the things out there was to maintain our guidance range.
We had guided in March that if fuel margins came in it may put us at the low end.
We aren't saying we're going to be at the low end but we're maintaining the range because that actually has happened with fuel.
And Mike historically you've said about $0.14 or so a gallon in fuel.
Obviously this quarter is lower but the slope of the curve was rising.
Is there anything else that's changed in the marketplace or maybe it's become a bit more competitive where you're a little concerned about the $0.14? I wouldn't say we focus on any one number.
Our practice on fuel is to follow the market and then give our most loyal customers a really good value on fuel by our fuel rewards program which I'll remind everybody the cost of that reduces our ID sales.
It doesn't reduce the fuel margin.
And it's really just what's happening in the marketplace as we follow the marketplace and stay right on the Street price and the signs but then give that incremental reward.
I wouldn't say there's anything unusual in the first quarter.
Any short period of time in fuel is an interesting result but a longer period of time is what's more important.
Internally we usually use a rolling four quarter number.
This year we didn't just because of how strong fuel margins were in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
And as Mike mentioned on a daily basis we're probably never right but usually over the year it gets pretty close.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Ed.
The next question will come from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
So I want to follow up a little more just on inflation.
For this upcoming year have you guys changed your inflation forecast? We're still expecting it to be in the 1% to 2% range.
We're actually at the high end of that range in the first quarter a lot of that driven by the pharmaceutical inflation that Mike mentioned or we mentioned in the prepared comments primarily in the generic arena.
So that's out there.
We do expect to see some potential inflation out there in the poultry flocks as the avian flu issue hits.
We don't know what's going to happen with all of the input ingredients that go into products from liquid eggs and how that might affect a lot of products that contain as an ingredient.
So we think 1% to 2% is right.
So far that's what we're seeing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay thanks for the color.
And then switching topics maybe to competition.
We hear a lot about capacity growth in the specialty grocery arena even I guess more commentary out there on the hard discount channel.
What are you seeing right now from competitor openings in – I guess from a full service grocery perspective? From a full service I guess I would say it's probably been pretty consistent over the last three or four years.
Certainly not aggressive; certainly if you look at the niche merchants there would be much higher growth there but we consider everybody a competitor so we wouldn't segment it as different as what probably most people would think we would.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right thank you.
Thanks Rupesh.
The next question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
So I'm just curious on – maybe this is just semantics Mike and maybe I'm over-reading but just to clarify on your guidance by quarter you've said just now that 3Q you expect it to be at the high end of your guidance.
I think last quarter you said it would be slightly above.
If you look at second quarter and third quarter actually I think second quarter we said at the high-end and third quarter above.
We just flip-flopped those a little bit.
It takes $8 million flipping between quarters to do that and it's just our best thinking today.
So it doesn't affect the year.
I think if you look back to what we just said in March the guidance on those two quarters is flipped between quarters still reflects a very strong year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then on tonnage I don't know if you guys would be willing to give an actual percent tonnage number.
And then I guess following on that I guess when I look at O&amp;A your O&amp;A growth rates definitely seemed higher than what I would've expected.
I know in the past you've talked about tonnage impacting that number but maybe just some color on those too? Relative to tonnage we won't give an actual number.
As Mike said in his prepared comments it was the strongest we've had since 2010 and we haven't given a specific number but we're very pleased with where it is.
If you think about in the comments I made on OG&amp;A we're very pleased with the leverage we've got of 15 basis point reduction in that as a rate of sales.
We did make conscious decisions to invest in other keys of our four-key strategy versus price to provide a better shopping experience to our customer both through making sure the products are on the shelves in a timely basis having our associates friendly and we keep our products as fresh as possible.
So there was some conscious decision to invest in incremental services for our customers which provides more jobs and hours for our associates as well.
The other thing on tonnage we always try to give an outline of where we are and how it feels but it's very hard to calculate and when a customer buys a 24-unit of something versus a 12-unit of something internally we count that as one and one.
Or water the common package for bottled water today is 32 bottles; it used to be 24.
That's still a unit.
It's not that we're trying to avoid the question; it's just that it's very – there's an awful lot of assumptions behind that and what we try to do is give everybody a general feel for what's going on.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just on the CLICKLIST I guess in Cincinnati I mean obviously I know you guys are always very conservative and want to make sure your customer is getting the best experience but it definitely seemed like it was a pretty long test phase so I guess maybe can you maybe clarify or give some color on what you ironed out and what made you feel comfortable to roll it out now? And how quickly you think you could accelerate that? The length of the test would seem long just because it became public a lot faster than we had intended to because somehow one of the newspaper folks that follow us found the actual website that we were testing with our associates.
So it's not that it was longer than normal it's just that it was public longer than what we'd normally would.
It's tracking – if you look at our original plan we're tracking on exactly where we thought we would be on the original plan and feel good about it.
And Mike just pointed out to me we just added our second store I guess it was this week or last week.
And again that's in a beta test and we kind of have to know it's there.
It's a new experience for us and we just want to make sure it's right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay Great.
Thanks.
Thanks Karen.
And next we have a question from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Thanks very much for taking my questions and congrats on a nice first quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask you first about really the private label in particular the Simple Truth.
If you could just give us a quick update in terms of where that brand is today if over the first quarter there have been any updates in terms of product expansion and how big that particular segment is for you right now? The brand we're very pleased with.
I think you'll find around 2 600 SKUs in our stores today and talk about connecting with the customer in a meaningful way.
They have taken the brand and really embraced the brand.
For us it's been not only strategic but it's really lining up with what customers are looking for today and you can also buy it now on Vitacost.com and it's available there also so anybody who even if you don't shop in a Kroger market you're able to get the product today.
But now we've been totally – completely pleased with the progress we're making and there are many more new items to come.
Okay.
And then maybe just as a follow-up sticking with the natural segment as you're continuing to learn the Vitacost division and as you mentioned you have the super site now up have you had any further progress? I know it's still admittedly pretty early but have you had any further progress that you could share with us in terms of maybe bringing some more of those products that have historically been Vitacost into some of your other banners? Today we have a pretty good selection of natural foods supplements bodybuilding products healthcare products in our stores.
Vitacost really just helps us fulfill that long tail of items that are smaller in some cases and on the King Soopers website now you can pick up 25 000 to 30 000 additional SKUs than what you'd find in a typical Kroger store.
So it's really helped us take Natural Foods natural products to the customer in a much broader way.
We're really pleased with where we're headed.
There's a lot of work still to do.
We're approaching our first anniversary of Vitacost next month and so we're actually moving pretty fast as a company and we're pleased with where we're headed.
Great thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
So Rodney I want to start with – you put up a quarter like this but I know you guys can be somewhat self-critical.
When you step back and say from a skill set standpoint or a business line standpoint where are you still not where you want to be in a significant way not we're 90% of the way there but have a lot of work to do? And then as part of that address maybe the issue of speed to market and that being a more important skill set to work on over the next couple of years.
The shortest hard question to answer.
When I did my own performance review with our board somebody asked me the same question.
And you've followed Kroger for a long time and you realize when you look at our culture overall we're always very proud of what we've accomplished.
But at the same time we feel like we have a tremendous opportunity to get better and a lot of times we like to use the words that our to-do list is longer than our done list.
And when you look at what's out in front of us we are incredibly excited about the opportunities that we see to continue to get better.
And the hardest thing that we have to do is actually make sure that we're trying not to improve on all things at once but what are the things that are most important to the customer and put all our resources against that.
So I guess the way I would say overall is obviously we're delighted with the quarter delighted with the progress we're making.
We're even more excited about the opportunity to continue to get better.
So I feel very good about where we are but I feel even better about the opportunities we have in front of us.
But are there certain – there have to be right certain product categories.
I don't want to get into geographic differences but certain product categories businesses customer groups that you're not fully resonating with yet and they have to be those.
What would tie those together if anything? It's probably – I'm trying to think of the easiest way to answer your question because it's a very good question.
It's more opportunity so if you think about like apparel we've added apparel I think we're up to 70-some Marketplace stores.
We're still learning what is the right selection of product to have that's in a Marketplace store.
Obviously the Fred Meyer group helps us get insight and procures the product for us through that channel but we're still learning what's the right things to put in.
And there's a ton of those things going on so it's really hard to say there's one specific item or one specific customer.
It's much broader than that and it's 100 different things versus just one thing that we're really trying to get better at.
All right.
And then just lastly when you think about pricing and pricing being a journey it looks to me like whether it's traditional competitors or mass there has been some stabilization with regard to pricing.
It's not a race to the bottom.
Is that fair and at this point you're largely where you need to be.
And the adjustments to come do you think it's more rifled? Do you look at maybe the hard discounters and work to be done on private label pricing? But are we stable and largely there and just selective guys you've got to address at this point? If you look at longer term on pricing as you know over the last several years we've invested in price as we reduced OG&amp;A to take costs out of the business.
The last few quarters we have been a little more aggressive in investing in service so it's not just price-based.
So if you look at the mix of where we invest we have invested some of that cost reduction in additional service hours and things like that.
So it's a journey that you never arrive at a destination so you're continually making progress and you continually change based on your competitive made – competitors change as well.
So we're happy where we are but we are continuing to invest but it's really driven by as we get costs out of the business.
I don't know if Mike anything you would want to add to that? I absolutely agree.
It's right in sync with the prepared remarks we had.
When you think about our four keys we're constantly asking ourselves what do we invest in to make sure that we're offering the best balance to the customer based on what the customer wants and the retail environment that we're in.
So Rodney's point about investing more in our people in the last few quarters is right on.
Okay thank you.
Thanks John.
The next question comes from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking my question and congrats.
Thank you good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
One question would just be real quickly you talked about what your guidance for inflation was for the year.
But did you comment on what you thought inflation was for the quarter? We did not but Mike? We're at the high end of that range...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
...
primarily driven by pharmacy.
It's about one-eighth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If you look at it without pharmacy it would have been lower.
And the comments we had on a volatile operating environment if you just get rid of the headline news on inflation and you start to dig into the commodities you have things going all over the world.
And one of the things I think we're most proud of this quarter is there were so many things bouncing around and our ability to manage through that this quarter really showed up in our results.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then I was wondering if you would talk at all about the formats that you're testing called Ruler.
I think you maybe have about 30 stores.
And I was just wondering what your thoughts are.
And we do know that ALDI is going to be opening more stores in Southern California.
It's getting a big push and Lidl is also going to be coming to the U.S.
pretty soon.
Just how do you feel about that format and do you want to be a competitor in that format? It's still very early and it's obviously a test for us.
It's one of the things we feel good about the progress the team made.
The format actually came to us through one of our mergers.
When we merged with Jay C they had the format even back then.
And the team has made a lot of changes to what's inside of it and we continue to make changes.
I wouldn't say that we're ready for primetime yet but we are making progress in the right direction.
And it really ties back to when you look at – you've heard us over the years talking a lot about how customers are bifurcating and we want to make sure that we have a format that serves all customers.
And there are certain customers that living on a budget is really important because either they want to or they have to and it's operating a store as efficient as you can to give the best prices you can.
So it really ties to that.
I don't know Mike anything you want to add to that? Just what we learned from this type of format has really been helpful to better understand that value segment and how to operate in that value world so we've really as a company learned a lot I think.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just real quickly I know you said your Natural Organic department was up double digits.
Did you see any changes at all? I think there are some other retailers that have said there was a bit of a slowdown I think primarily in the dry grocery side but I don't know.
It doesn't sound like you saw anything but did you? Nothing that I can put my finger on it.
It's still real healthy for us.
Again we have good supply so we haven't had any issues around that.
But no customers still are as interested in the natural category the Natural Foods world real food we call it as they ever have been.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you for your answers.
Thanks Meredith.
And next we have a question from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up on your thinking around the guidance.
I think you said the quarter came in slightly above with fuel slightly below.
So how does that – if we just isolate the stores does that mean the stores was a little better than that versus internal expectation? I think the strong IDs without fuel would demonstrate how happy we are with our core grocery performance and that's built into our expectations for the year when we raised ID sales guidance without fuel.
So we're very pleased with what's going on inside the four walls of the store.
Okay.
And Meredith asked about I guess the cadence on natural but I'd like to ask about it just across the store.
It sounds like from your answer and the answer on natural that there hasn't been a big falloff of some volatility on the consumer side.
I think it sounds to me like the worry is more on the supply side whether it's the fuel margins coming in or what's going to happen with some of the commodities.
I'm not sure I understood the last part of the question on the supply side Andrew.
Well first of all I want to ask if you're seeing any change in your sales cadence and is that where you're seeing volatility? Or is it just the other things you mentioned such as fuel margins and potential disruptions or whatever you're thinking about with avian flu? I'll answer part of it.
I'll let Mike or Mike answer the other part.
If you look at the change during the quarter would be more driven by inflation clearly.
End of the quarter is slower than it started out in the quarter so the change has been more inflation driven.
Tonnage has been pretty consistent or was pretty consistent.
If you look at this quarter quarter to date we would still be slightly ahead of the range that we gave for the balance of the year and part of the reason for that is we expect inflation to continue to get lower as we go through the year.
In terms of the avian flu and some of the other pieces Mike...
When we just – Andy when we sat back and looked at all of the factors out there and the fact that even though on the calendar we're almost halfway through the year but for Kroger we're only a quarter of the way through the year we just thought it was very early to change our EPS guidance for the year given the volatility in a lot of commodities inside inflation given what could be an unknown effect of the avian virus as we go throughout the year.
Volatility in fuel again we're very happy with where we are and we think given the 8% to 11% growth rate off of a very strong last year being able to deliver in that range and continue to produce the results on the cadence we projected we think will result in a very fine year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew or Andy.
The next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Not sure if you answered this yet.
If you did forgive me.
But in terms of ID sales into 2Q how are they progressing quarter to date even if just on a qualitative basis? And are there any timing issues any items we should be aware of as we model that near-term top-line? Ken as I just mentioned if you look at the identicals so far this quarter we continue to be a little ahead of the range guidance we gave for the year.
Part of that is driven because we believe inflation will continue to decline during the year and we would still expect that based on what we're seeing today when you look at the impact on identicals.
Okay.
I did miss it when you just said that I apologize.
No problem.
Broader question we've seen quite a sudden market share shift in food retail in general away from specialty channels back toward for lack of a better term the Kroger's of the world more traditional I know you don't love that term but more traditional grocers.
I think the general thesis out there which I agree with is that much of the shift is generated by you and some peers adding natural and organic products but it seems like better-for-you isn't quite big enough to move the needle as much as what we've seen.
So are there any other drivers that you are seeing out there that would sort of explain this kind of quick shift in consumer behavior or is it too vague and too hard to tell? Yeah I'm not sure – I guess I'll speak for myself a little bit here.
I'm not sure I 100% agree with your thesis when you look at some of the specialty retailers just because some of them have reported lower ID sales than what their trend has been they continue to open stores they have a little bit of cannibalization and a lot of them continue to post ID sales above what the market would be growing at.
So I wouldn't subscribe to the theory that they're necessarily a sudden shift in market share away from them it may be a slower growth in market share gain but I wouldn't say it's a shift away from them.
We actually – we can't ask our customers where did you shop before when our IDs go up 5.1% we believe we're taking share and more sales dollars from our customers from a wide variety of retailers and are happy to do that and that's really what we focus on.
But I think our sales strengths comes from a broad base of folks including doing a better job of offering new and unique products that they may not be able to get somewhere else like Simple Truth.
But I think I wouldn't – if I we're sitting in their chairs I wouldn't necessarily be embarrassed by some of the recent results they've had.
And I will answer your question a little different than how Mike did.
If you look at the fresh side of our business produce meat and some of those departments deli we're having incredibly strong growth.
Some of that is improving freshness some of it is that customers wanting to eat products that's fresher and that is something that we have a huge competitive advantage versus a lot of our competitors because the variety that we offer we offer it all plus we do still have some – there's certain products you just can't get an organic item or a natural item.
So we're able to make your full shop with us.
So it's really a position of strength for us and an opportunity for us to continue to deliver.
That's a very interesting answer.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ken.
And our next question is from Alvin Concepcion of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning and congratulations on a great quarter nice way to start the year.
Thank you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> There's been quite a few questions about the competitive environment but I'll tack on another one.
Are you seeing anything different in the promotional environment as the quarter progressed or even over the last month? Well we probably have seen different competitive pockets of activity around the country but that's not unusual.
But as a company we just tend to deal with that as things change and as our customers – try to meet our customers' needs in the most beneficial way to them.
But there's nothing really specific that I can put my finger on.
But again there is promotional activity.
When you have this broader geography as we have you see just about everything throughout the course of time so yeah nothing I can really put my finger on.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And I guess maybe more specifically are you seeing anything different on the margin environment for your natural and organic food part of the portfolio? Nothing that I would say is worth reporting but most of what we see today is just this mainstreaming of natural and organics continues but I wouldn't say there's additional retail pressure on those categories of goods.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And one more quick one for me.
You talked a little bit about the growth in loyal households.
I'm wondering if you could give us a sense of how fast that growth was and what kind of share of wallet you're getting now from those loyal customers? Well I can say we're pleased with transactions and number of households and visits per household and spend per customer.
So in general it's very healthy for us right now.
I really don't want to get too specific about any of the numbers but overall it's been a combination of those factors that have been driving our ID sales.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Filippe Goossens of Mitsubishi.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thanks for taking my question here.
Typically you don't comment obviously on M&amp;A activity but I was wondering if you perhaps could opine a little bit on if there were to be a merger between Ahold and Delhaize whether that would at all impact your competitive position in those markets where you do overlap with the two companies.
Thanks very much.
You're correct when you say we don't comment on mergers so I won't talk about the particular specifics on the one you asked about.
But anytime companies merge it creates certain opportunities and you try to make sure that you deal with the opportunities that are created.
And different ones create different kinds of opportunities.
And it really is you sit down and say what is the right strategy for this particular one.
And we wouldn't look at if the two of them merge any different than whenever somebody else merges.
And we believe there will be continued consolidation in our industry and we have every intention of being a consolidator in that consolidation of the industry.
And as you know we participated in several mergers over the last year and the last several years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if I perhaps may ask a derivative question obviously you've seen the news of CVS and Target working together right now for the operation of the pharmacy stores within the Target locations.
I presume that Kroger remains fully committed to operating the respective pharmacy locations you have within your different formats yourselves going forward.
We love the pharmacy business and the whole offer that it offers for the customer and we continue to see strong results there.
One of the things that if you look at the average volume per location and some of that we would have very very strong performance on a per location basis and continue to do very well and grow.
So we're making...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful thank you very much.
And next we have a question from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Rodney you teed this up because you said you see yourself as a consolidator in the business.
And so I know Mike I think you said your leverage is 2.09.
Thinking about your balance sheet what is your capacity to do further transactions? I think the answer to that question isn't what my financial capacity is.
It's what's the capacity of the organization to do something.
It's what assets might be available and do they fit the metrics that we typically would go after when you would look at a transaction.
So we wouldn't sit back and say Harris Teeter is behind us we've delevered let's go spend another $2.5 billion get it back up to 2.4 and work our way back down.
It's really quite the opposite.
It's one of the reasons we try to maintain the ratio where it is.
If an opportunity does come up can we take on the leverage of that correct unique opportunity act on it have the rating agencies continue to have the believability in us doing what we say and that is we told them 18 months to 24 months we'd get our leverage back down? It took 12 months and it went down again this year and I think the statistics we went through with the return of capital to shareholders as well as what we've invested back in the business all told when you add that up it's about $4.5 billion we either returned or invested.
And to maintain debt at a flat level really demonstrates the power of the cash that we can generate as a company.
Okay thanks.
The second question is and I know we touched on some of the natural and organic guys and other things but I was just broadly looking at the space.
You guys commented tonnage growth has accelerated.
It seems to me that your market share gains are accelerating.
Why I guess what's changing? Why is more market share accreting to Kroger at an accelerating rate? And does your outlook – forget gas and inflation but just basically is the outlook over the next 12 to 24 months that this pattern is going to continue? For us the progress that we've made overall we really would give our hats off to our associates.
It's our associates interacting one on one every time and helping make the customer's experience a little bit better is what's driving the results and it's our ability to support our associates to deliver great service.
So I don't know that there's a big magic wand that we're waving.
It really is 100 small things but doing each one of those things a little bit better.
And our associates continue to improve our execution and giving us feedback so we can keep getting better and then using the insights we have working with 84.51° and then now going forward we'll be able to work with others broader than just 84.51°.
So it's all of those things together that's supporting that.
All right and then if I could have one more.
Sure.
Publix continues to encroach.
How do you stop that and what do you think about that? And then thank you.
We would say by Publix the way we would say about tons of competitors Walmart Costco and on and on and on.
They're a great competitor.
We always learn a lot from them because they do a great job running their stores.
And we don't look at it so much in terms of how do you stop a specific competitor.
We're really focused on how do we make sure we keep getting better.
And if they're successful in a market they're successful at somebody else's expense not us.
Thanks guys.
Nice quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks Scott.
We have time for one more question.
Sure and that question will come from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for s squeezing me in.
I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about 84.51°.
I thought it was interesting that you – I think Rodney characterized it as a game changer.
And I understand that the new structure allows you to work with outside data service providers in conjunction with 84.51°.
But I was just curious if you could talk a little bit more about what are some of the priorities in terms of how you would like to expand the use of that business for Kroger.
How do I answer your question without competitors understanding exactly what we're trying to do? I can tell you I've had more dialogue and several of us have in terms of how do we better use the data we have for the benefit of our customers and to run our business better.
And we've had more of those discussions in the last eight weeks than we had in the two years before that because we spent an awful lot of time talking about things other than Kroger.
So to us and as I mentioned in my prepared comments there are a lot of great people at 84.51° that we're just so excited for them to be part of our family and I know they're so excited because they're going to be able to even help us accelerate what we're doing.
So it's really hard to say specifics other than I can tell you we have a huge list of things that we can use our data for for the benefit of our customers and running our business better that for whatever reason we hadn't taken advantage of and we're going to figure out a way to prioritize that and figure out a way to take advantage of that and some of those cases will involve partnering with other companies other than just 84.51°.
That's helpful.
And any comments on what the strategy or is there a strategy to grow the 84.51° business with other retailers or clients like Kroger so the company can grow its own profitability and growth? We really won't comment on that at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Kelly.
Before we end today's call I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
We recently wrapped up our Red White &amp; Barbecue celebration in stores across our company.
A special thanks to each of you for making this exciting event possible and I can tell you I personally ate way too much on the samples.
Our customers loved kicking off the summer grilling season with fresh flavors and fun ideas to share with their family and friends.
I also want to thank you for helping show Kroger's gratitude to our active duty troops and our nation's 23 million veterans this summer.
Through our partnership with the USO and the Honoring Our Heroes campaign we hope to raise an additional $2 million for our military men and women.
Together Kroger's associates and customers have raised more than $11.9 million since 2010 to support USO programs.
This represents the largest gift to the USO in its history.
Visit the Honoring Our Heroes website for more information about how you can help.
We also continue to hire our heroes.
More than 29 000 veterans have joined our team since 2009 including more than 6 000 associates last year.
Thank you for helping welcome them to our Kroger family.
That completes our call today and thanks for joining.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The Kroger Company Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura [ph].
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our second quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Please save the date for our 2015 investor conference which we will hold at the New York Stock Exchange on October 27.
Details will be coming soon and we hope you can join us.
I will now turn the call over to Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rodney McMullen.
Thank you Cindy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's second quarter 2015 results is Mike Schlotman Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And the next time you see Mike please congratulate him on his well-deserved and well-earned promotion.
We are pleased with our second quarter results.
Our 5.3% identical supermarket sales growth without fuel allowed us to continue investing in our business and delivering on our aggressive growth plan.
Strong fuel margins toward the end of the quarter allowed us to deliver results that exceeded our original expectations.
During the second quarter we achieved our 47th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four-quarter basis.
We kept costs down which together with identical supermarket sales growth allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses at a rate of sales and we continued to grow market share by improving our connection with customers which fueled both our top and bottom lines and enables strategic Customer 1st investment.
These consistently remarkable financial results are possible quarter after quarter because our business is built on the belief that serving customers is serving shareholders.
Based on the strength of our second quarter results we are raising our net earnings per diluted share and identical supermarket sales growth guidance for the year.
While customers continue to feel optimistic about the economy throughout the second quarter they also continue to tell us they want to spend less.
More and more they want retailers to help them save money with sales and coupons.
We are well positioned with our everyday low prices and our weekly sales and digital offers to solve this for our customers.
As you know the food retail business is in a constant state of change.
Part of what makes our Customer 1st strategy is so powerful is it provides Kroger a firm foundation from which to approach new opportunities in the right way to benefit our customers associates and shareholders.
While there are many examples for our businesses is rapidly involving I'd like to highlight three key areas of innovation and investment today: Technology food and people.
And how the steps we are taking in each of these areas are broadening our competitive advantage for the future.
We are actively expanding our use of technology in ways we believe will make a difference for customers and associates.
This summer we expanded our online ordering pilot in Cincinnati to three additional divisions.
We are now offering our order online pickup at the store solution in select Kroger stores in Louisville and Indianapolis and Fred Meyer stores in the Portland area.
This is of course in addition to the Harris Teeter's successful express lane service.
When you think about digital opportunities we do not limit our focus to e-commerce.
Digital for Kroger includes a broad range of efforts to interact with customers in increasingly relevant and meaningful ways whether online or through our mobile app.
A key metric is our measure of digital and household engagement.
And during the second quarter we continued to gain household engagement at record numbers.
Our Kroger technology team continues to earn recognition for leading edge initiatives to establish the Internet of Things in our stores.
Earlier this summer Kroger's electronic temperature monitoring project was named a winner of the CIO 100 Award by CIO Magazine.
And as we shared with you in June the talented team at 84.51 is helping us grow and evolve even faster due to their closer daily involvement in our business.
84.51's specialty helping us make data-driven decisions that truly put the customer first is a significant competitive advantage for Kroger.
Our multi-tiered Corporate Brands portfolio has always been a powerful differentiator for Kroger.
Simple Truth continues to see explosive growth.
Private selection remains a vibrant billion dollar brand that is growing in the double digits and developing unique offerings in many categories.
I'm pleased to share with you that later this month we will launch an entirely new brand called HEMISFARES.
HEMISFARES brings only the best food finds from around the globe to our food curious customers for an amazing authentic eating experience.
It's a guide tour of the best tastes on the earth.
Imagine landing in a country known for its incredible food and experiencing the finest examples of its region's most famous and delectable eats.
Every HEMISFARES product is curated from the source and imported directly to our stores.
The most exciting part is that no one else has a brand like this.
HEMISFARES is a great example of what makes our Corporate Brands unique and we think will appeal to millennials foodies and ultimately all cuts of our customers.
And by the way I've tried a lot of the products and its outstanding.
It's not just great and I think you're going to love it when you get a chance to try it.
Our reputation for consistently – consistent execution rests squarely on the shoulders of our 400 000 associates who make it all happen in our stores distribution centers manufacturing facilities and offices.
Our work force is expanding rapidly to support our growth strategy.
Last year we created 25 000 new jobs and right now we are hiring to fill an estimated 20 000 new and permanent positions in our stores.
We are looking for people who want to be part of a team take pride in everything they do and want to grow with us.
One important and untapped resource for new associates is our country's military veterans.
Since 2009 more than 29 000 veterans have joined our ranks and hundreds of current associates continue to actively serve in the military.
Over the past several years Kroger has formalized our military hiring initiatives.
We joined the 100 000 Jobs Mission a coalition of companies with the common goal of hiring transitioning service members and military veterans and we have increased our presence at military recruiting events.
Next week we are hosting our first ever Honoring Our Heroes hiring event during which we will hold open interviews at every one of our supermarket locations on Tuesday September 15 for all veterans and their family members.
The fact that nearly 70% of our store managers started out as hourly associates or stocking shelves or bagging groceries speaks to Kroger's opportunity culture which we believe is a differentiator for us today and will continue to be so in the future.
Before I turn it over to Mike I'd like to comment on our announcement yesterday of a new organizational structure for our senior leadership team.
We take a team approach to leadership and this new structure is designed to better align resources to our company's goals.
It also streamlines decision-making and accelerates progress on our growth strategy.
As I said in our announcement yesterday Kroger is incredibly fortunate to have such an exceptional strong group of leaders across our company and our senior leadership team has unmatched depth and experience to continue delivering for our customers associates and shareholders.
Now Mike Schlotman will offer more detail on Kroger's second quarter results provide you an update on labor relations and update our guidance for 2015.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our results for the quarter in each of the key performance target areas for our long-term growth plan.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
Our identical supermarket sales growth of 5.3% in the second quarter demonstrates the strength of our core business.
Our identical supermarket sales growth was driven by a combination of strong tonnage growth and an increase in the number of households shopping with us in the second quarter.
We also met our goal to grow the number of loyal households at an even faster rate than total household growth during the quarter.
All geographies and supermarket departments had positive identical supermarket sales excluding fuel during the quarter.
We continue to see outstanding double-digit identical sales growth in our natural foods department.
Our meat deli and pharmacy departments also posted strong sales.
Rolling four-quarters FIFO operating margin excluding fuel the 2014 and 2013 adjustment items and the contributions to the pension and foundation in the third and fourth quarters of 2014 – I hope you got all that – increased by 20 basis points.
This exceeded our commitment to grow the rate slightly over time on the rolling four quarters basis.
Return on invested capital on a rolling four quarters basis was 14.24%.
We're now presenting a comparative number this quarter because the last year's second quarter calculation does not include a full year of Harris Teeter assets and results.
We continue to expect our return on invested capital for fiscal 2015 to increase slightly from fiscal 2014 results.
This is an important metric as we continue to increase our capital investment to drive our future growth.
Before I share our second quarter results in more detail I'd like to discuss how we are successfully managing through the current operating environment which has more volatility than normal especially as it relates to fuel margins and inflation.
We benefited from higher fuel margins late in the second quarter.
As Rodney said our nonfuel results were right in line with where we expected them to be.
We expect fuel volatility to continue for the remainder of the year.
Another factor that we are actively managing is product costs.
While inflation continued at a lower rate during the second quarter which we estimate was approximately 1.4% without fuel some commodities had high inflation and others had deflation.
Seafood and milk were deflationary.
Produce prices were less deflationary in the quarter and we continue to see inflation in generic pharmaceuticals.
It bears repeating and if you look back over the past several years we have had periods of high and low inflation and we've shown that regardless of the environment we will deliver greater value and convenience for our customers.
Now I'll share our second quarter 2015 results in more detail.
As you know we don't provide guidance for total sales because of the unpredictable impact that fuel has on our overall results.
Total sales in the second quarter were impacted by the lower retail price of fuel much like the first quarter.
The average price of retail fuel during our second quarter was $2.67 compared to $3.54 last year.
Total sales in the second quarter increased 0.9% to $25.5 billion compared to $25.3 billion in the same period last year.
Excluding fuel total sales increased to 5.7% for the second quarter compared to the same period last year.
In the second quarter our net earnings totaled $433 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $347 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
Kroger reported a $21 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $26 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
FIFO gross margin excluding retail fuel operations decreased 7 basis points from the same period last year.
Strong identical supermarket sales growth and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage operating expenses as a rate of sales in the second quarter.
Total operating expenses excluding retail fuel operations decreased 35 basis points as a percent of sales compared to last year.
Second quarter FIFO operating profit excluding fuel increased approximately $93 million over the prior year.
Now for retail fuel operations.
In the second quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.19 compared to $0.183 in the same quarter last year.
We expect fuel margins to continue to be volatile during the second half of the year.
Kroger brand's performance during the second quarter was solid representing approximately 26.4% of total units sold and 25.1% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
I will provide a brief update on labor relations.
We recently agreed to new contracts in Columbus and Memphis and have ratified all of the local agreements associated with the master agreement with the Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.
We are currently negotiating contracts with the UFCW store associates in Denver and Portland and with the Teamsters covering our Southern California distribution centers.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive cost and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable healthcare and a retirement benefit for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be don't be pressured by rising healthcare and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective: growing Kroger's business and profitability which help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
Our long-term financial strategy continues to be to repurchase shares give an increasing dividend fund increasing capital investments and to maintain our current investment-grade debt rating.
Our strong financial position has allowed us to return $1 billion to shareholders through buy-backs and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the second quarter Kroger repurchased 1.1 million common shares for a total investment of $43 million.
Capital investments excluding mergers and acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities totaled $812 million for the second quarter compared to $672 million for the same period last year.
We expect capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of lease facilities to be at the high end of the $3 billion to $3.3 billion range for the year.
We're turning towards the high end because we see a strong pipeline of high quality projects and we continue to be encouraged by the results from our new stores.
In order to have a steady flow of projects and increase the total number of store projects we are spending on stores scheduled to open in 2016 to make sure they are ready to meet our target dates.
Additionally we continue to reduce the amount of time it takes to complete projects.
The company's net total debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 2.02 compared to 2.32 during the same period last year.
Kroger's net total debt is $11.3 billion compared to $11.1 billion during the same period last year.
Again this year or again this quarter we have essentially maintained our absolute debt level while returning $1 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters investing $3.1 billion in capital on a rolling four-quarter's basis plus an additional $426 million on mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
In other words we are keeping our commitments to our bondholders and shareholders while delivering value to our customers and increasing opportunities for our associates.
Now I'd like to update our growth objectives for 2015.
Based on our strong year-to-date performance we raised our identical supermarket sales growth guidance excluding fuel to a range of 4% to 5% for 2015.
The prior guidance was 3.5% to 4.5%.
We also raised our net earnings per diluted share guidance to a range of $1.92 to $1.98 for fiscal 2015.
The previous guidance was $1.90 to $1.95 per diluted share.
This range exceeds the company's net earnings per diluted share growth rate guidance of 8% to 11%.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend expected to increase over time.
We continue to expect the third quarter to be at the high end of our long-term growth range and the fourth quarter to be below the range.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that our base business is performing very well.
The volatility of fuel in the back half of the year will determine where we end up within that range.
Now I'll return it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
Kroger's business is strong.
Our team of associates continues to derive our Customer 1st strategy by taking care of our customers in big and small ways offering fresh foods and keeping costs down so that we can reinvest those savings in our associates store experience products and prices.
As a result we continue to earn customer loyalty and gain market share.
We are investing to grow our business for the future while delivering on our promises today.
Our stores are hiring to fill 20 000 new permanent jobs.
We are expanding our digital and e-commerce offerings.
Our confidence in Kroger has never been stronger.
Now we look forward to your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I don't want to sound negative here but I guess what I'm wondering in terms of your ID guidance for the year it definitely reflects a slowdown in the two-year comp in the third quarter and fourth quarter even though it looks like inflation is maybe getting a little bit better maybe less of a headwind.
So I guess any color there? Are you of being conservative? Any color you could give would be helpful.
The guidance is always one of the hardest things to come up with what's the right estimate.
As you know we've always expected inflation to continue to slow down during the year and we would expect that to continue.
Now we're working hard as always to make sure that we're at the good side of that.
If you look at where we are so far this quarter we continue to track within the guidance and kind of similar to where we were in the second quarter.
So we feel good about where we are.
And we see exciting opportunity.
I don't know Mike did you want to? Yeah Karen another thing to keep in mind is if you look at real growth if you look at our current ID sales trend and even what we would be projecting and take away the relatively benign inflationary environment today it's actually as strong a real growth as we've had in quite some time really going all the way back to three or four years actually four or five years.
You really don't see a trend as strong as we have today when you look at it on an inflation-adjusted basis.
Our tonnage growth is quite strong.
And from our standpoint as long as we continue to have the tonnage growth in many of the departments that we have we'll be just fine because that's the ultimate demonstration of the strength of your businesses is how many items are the customers buying on a weekly and monthly basis.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess also just on your guidance.
I just was wondering on your updated pension guidance you have some changes in both the company and the multi-employer.
It's unclear to me on the multi-employer if your prior guidance just didn't include the $16 million that was previously accrued but you definitely also increased the company-sponsored so obviously you're raising your guidance even with those two headwinds? Yeah the $16 million would have been accrued and expensed when it was accrued.
Keep in mind on the multi-employer plans when you have a contractual obligation or actually put dollars in you expense it versus the company plan we could put money in and it may not translate into a current expense.
So they're quite different in how you account for the two calculations.
I don't – it's not a dramatic change in our expectations between the two plans although somewhat.
More of a headwind.
Okay.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thanks very much.
It would be – I mean it would be a slight headwind compared to where we were earlier in the year but nothing dramatic.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Karen.
Our next question comes from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Good morning and congrats on a really nice quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I want to just touch on your pharmacy business.
We've seen some of your competitors call out some headwinds within their pharmacy business on the margin line.
I just want to get a sense of whether you guys are also seeing some headwinds within your pharmacy business as well on the margin line.
As you know one of the things that's so important for us is our total portfolio of businesses.
And when you look there's almost every year you'll have something stronger and something else weaker.
And if you look at the pharmacy business what we would be experiencing would be pretty similar to what some of our competitors would talk about.
We continue to have very strong growth on the number of scripts filled and that has been true for a long period of time and our pharmacy teams continue to do a great job on taking care of our customers.
But in terms of financial it would be very similar to what some of the others have talked about.
But it is – the nice thing and the great thing about having a portfolio of businesses where some pieces are obviously growing well in excess of the total.
Okay.
Great.
And then switching topics to maybe expenses the leverage this quarter is much better than what we saw last quarter.
Besides sales leverage was there anything else that may have contributed to the better leverage this period? No I think it's really across-the-board good cost controls in many facets of the business.
As we often say here at Kroger sales are a beautiful thing and when you can have north of 5% IDs the sales leverage on the expense line becomes quite enormous and particularly if your ID sales start to exceed where your own expectations were it gets a little tough to add hours as fast as the sales start to come and it takes a while to catch up to that.
There could have been a bit of that as well.
But I wouldn't say there was any one particular area that would stand out.
It's really pretty strong across-the-board cost controls from many locations.
One of the other things that we mentioned on the first quarter we were pretty aggressive on incrementally investing hours in some places.
Some of that you begin to get the flow of it and you understand where does it make sense and where doesn't it make sense as well.
Thank you for all the color and good luck for the half back.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
And next we have a question from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
So guys two things.
Do you think – when you look at the momentum the business has and the things you have to invest in have we gotten to a point where it's really hard to keep ex-fuel EBIT margin to just up slightly right without making investments that you don't think have a return? Or do you think we're just in a period here where timing of investments have been slower and that's partly why you're getting the 20 basis points? When you look at the business overall I would still feel that slightly improving is where – is the right thing long-term for the business and what creates the most sustainable long-term value for the business and obviously then flow-through to our shareholders.
It's never as easy to be exactly precise every quarter in terms of where you invest and how does the margins flow through and so I feel good about where we are but I certainly don't believe as I look forward to cause us to do anything to adjust the guidance we've provided.
I don't know Mike any additional…? Yeah and one of the things to keep in mind John as you know we have a portfolio of things we want to invest in over time.
And these aren't promotional activities to your point we aren't going to go out and have crazy promotional activity that's not going to be sustainable and drive long-term growth but we have a portfolio of things we want to continue to invest in and you know frankly some of the strength we're experiencing today is on the backs of some of the investments we made in the third and fourth quarter of last year.
And you make a little bit of an investment and then several months later you start to see the fruits of that investment.
And that's one of the things that's leading to the strong IDs we've had in the first half.
And we've tried to get into this rhythm where we're more diligent about when we invest how we invest balanced up against consistent results.
And I think we're doing as good a job as we've ever done and we still have that portfolio of areas where we would like to invest in.
And then Rodney you talked about the organizational structure which is quite different than you've had as far back as I can remember.
You said sort of right for this time.
Maybe more specifically what do you think the structure gives you benefit-wise and then it does sound like a lot of the guys will have more direct reports than they did before? What do you have to do if anything different in how you run the business tactically to account for that? The people be overseeing more than they had previously.
Well a big part of that is just the growth that the team has had.
I feel very comfortable that the growth they've had as leaders will allow them to have a little broader span of control than they've had before.
As you know we're incredibly fortunate to have such a great depth of people and we're incredibly fortunate that they've been at Kroger for a long time so they really know our business well and understand what we're trying to get done.
For me it really does eliminate one layer of decision-making and it really does streamline our ability to make decisions.
And the team is working together so well as a team.
And I'm just really excited about going forward.
I think it will just make it a lot smoother in terms of how we operate on a day-to-day basis.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
And the next question is from Stephanie Chang of Credit Suisse.
Hey guys.
It's actually Ed Kelly here asking a question for Stephanie.
Hey Stephanie.
So I guess my first question for you well my one question.
Your one question.
Very good.
I have a follow up.
So just related to IDs.
I mean your IDs are clearly exceeding expectations.
You're raising the full year guidance for the ID again this quarter.
I would guess that the level of inflation is less than what you probably thought coming in to the year.
And Mike you talked about it with tonnage right being the strongest that it's been in some time.
Could you just maybe help us understand how you're driving such strong growth in the business and maybe even what's surprising you as you look at the top line performance today? It's a great question.
And to me the thing that is so important about what Kroger has been doing for a long period of time not just in this quarter is really focusing on multiple aspects of connecting with their customers and associates.
So it's really we continue to improve the products that our customers have.
We – our merchandisers continue to find new ideas and new products.
Our operators continue to improve execution and figuring out ways to take costs out of the business and we continue to take that and invest in what the customers tell us is important.
So it's really all of those things working together.
The thing that you never know is how will competitors react to what you're doing? And how – customers continually change and how do you make sure that you're staying out in front of those changes? So far this year we're incredibly delighted with how we've identified how the customers evolving and changing.
And connecting with those customers on a deeper deeper way.
Our customers tell us from the way that our associates serve them the products we deliver the prices that we've continued to improve what we're doing and it's really the combination of all those things working together.
Maybe just a quick follow up here on inflation.
I think I heard you guys say that you continue to expect inflation to slow throughout the rest of the year.
We have I think heard from one of your smaller competitors yesterday about particularly produce and maybe produce bottoming and getting better.
So could you maybe provide a little color on some of the categories and how you see that progressing throughout the rest of the year? Yeah Ed as I said in my prepared comments the produce picture actually the deflation slowed.
And actually if you were to look at the very end of the quarter was a slight bit of inflation in the last several weeks.
Nothing to write home about.
But it was deflationary for the quarter but got less and actually turned a bit towards the end of the quarter.
You continue to see other categories out there that have a mixed bag.
Grocery is still let's call it just north of flat.
Just a little bit of inflation and that's a big driving factor in it.
The other one to keep out to keep in mind as you think about inflation is pharmacy is a big inflationary area that I spoke of as well.
The generic costs continue to go up.
It's the earlier question on the headwind from gross margin in pharmacy it's one of the reasons why that headwind exists because you can't pass that on as quickly as the cost of the underlying pills go up.
So it continues to be a mixed bag.
You're seeing some of the meat complex get less inflationary.
And in fact deflationary in some areas but still some slight inflation in other areas.
Seafood's a little deflationary right now.
But it continues to be a little bit all over the board.
Okay.
Thanks guys and congratulations Mike by the way.
Thanks.
The next question is from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Great.
Thanks very much for taking my question and congratulations as well.
Wanted to ask on the digital initiatives.
You guys had said that a few more divisions now have the pickup at store capabilities.
Can you give us a little bit more color as to what you're seeing in terms of traction usage there? What may be in the basket and then maybe kind of some thoughts going forward for further rollout? Well they give you some insights.
It's what we find is some customers enjoy shopping that and in addition to still buying stuff in the store.
So it's – and you've heard us talk a long time about on digital we really do believe it's an "and" and not an "or." And all it is trying to offer one more way of a customer engaging with us so that they get engaged with us the way they want to versus the way they have to.
And what we find is the customer feedback has been very positive for some customers.
But it's not all customers.
And the learnings that we were able to get from Harris Teeter is they were able to accelerate teaching us how to do it and then our store associates are doing a great job of executing against that.
In terms of specifics on going forward the only thing really I would say is that it continues to be something that we test and we'll kind of – the pace in which we go will really be driven by how fast the customers engage with us.
And one of the things that we're trying to do as a company is pace things based on our ability to execute against it.
And the customers' connection with it.
So I wouldn't be able to give you specifics right now because we really don't have specifics yet.
Okay.
No that is helpful.
Thank you.
And maybe just as a follow-up I'll stick with the digital initiatives.
And I know you guys had said you're continuing to see really nice growth in the loyal households.
Have been there any changes on your end? Since the exclusivity with what was done humvie [ph] you know over the past couple of quarters has changed.
Has there been any change in your approach to getting to know those loyal customers and who else maybe you are working with or not going forward? I wouldn't say there's been change.
The thing that's probably the biggest difference is the leadership team at 84.51 is involved in every meeting now.
And it's things when you're trying to make a decision on what you do the folks who are around the table and they have great insights so you really having those insights as part of the decision at the front end rather than at the back end of the conversation.
So the biggest thing is just the quality.
To say that we get additional insights I wouldn't say there's additional insight so far.
I would say there's a lot of additional projects that we're working on that should help us going forward that I feel very confident in that it just makes it easier to get those things done rather than having to negotiate with the third party.
Right.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much and good luck.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
The next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
There's been so much change in Southern California amongst some of your larger peers.
And I realize it's not easy maybe it's impossible to quantify but can you give us a sense for how much those changes have either benefited you or created a more challenging competitive environment? Just thinking about some of the issues that Haggen has had some of the changes Albertson's has put into place.
If you can address that at all I'd be appreciative.
That's one of those where obviously it's a good question but hard to answer.
When you look at our business in total in Southern California we're very happy with where we are.
But the thing – the biggest thing that we think is driving it is our associates are doing a great job and our leadership team there in terms of improving how we serve our customers.
Now whether it's things customers do or competitors are doing that cause our customers to like what we're doing better that I don't know.
I think it's always important to remember that in Southern California Costco is actually one of our biggest competitors.
Whole Foods would be a huge competitor there.
You have a ton of really high quality independents there.
So the competition there is very diverse and more than just the Safeway and Albertson's and their merger and Haggens.
So I really – it's hard to say.
A certain part is because of whatever somebody is doing.
And we're really much more focused on how are the customers telling us we're delivering against what they're asking for.
Mike anything you would want to add to that? No I agree.
When there's any kind of disruption in the market we look at it as an opportunity from a positive standpoint not a woe is me or what's going to happen? How are we going to deal with this? And when names change on banners when people may go to market differently the opportunity always exists that folks may look for a different place to shop that didn't do that in the past.
We want to make sure that Dawn and her team continue to do what they're doing to excite our customers and associates in Southern California.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up I just wanted to confirm that I heard correctly.
You did say I think 3Q QTV ID sales x-fuel sometime what we saw in 2Q right? So far anyway? What I said is quarter-to-date it's pretty similar where we are in quarter two.
Right.
Right.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks.
Take care Ken.
And our next question is from William Kirk of RBC.
Thank you.
I have a question on Simple Truth.
I think it's in some of your convenience stores now.
I was just wondering how the brand's performing in that channel and how many C-stores it is in I guess.
I'm looking at C-stores for two days and I already got it in there.
Honestly I don't know the answer to that question.
How many it's in or how broad the...
On a few select items it's in pretty broad in a lot of our convenience stores but it's pretty narrow.
It's early in the process.
And we're really trying to learn how broad can the brand go and who all connects with it? As you know historically convenience stores isn't a place you go to for healthy offerings and we are trying to make sure that the customer if that's what they want they can find what they want.
So it's early in the process but we are trying to learn how far the Simple Truth brand can go.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then on the M&amp;A opportunity environment we saw repurchases come down in the quarter.
Leverage is back to where it was pre Harris Teeter.
How are you feeling about the M&amp;A environment and opportunities out there? I would say our M&amp;A appetite is the same as it's always been.
If the right opportunity comes along and it's the right set of stores right set of assets and right management team we would think about it.
There's not a lot that happens in the space that doesn't come across our desk.
I wouldn't read anything into the share buyback coming down in the quarter to signal something on M&amp;A activity.
We were pretty up-front that we expected to front-end load our share repurchase program and really what you're seeing in the second quarter is the use of stock option proceeds and the tax benefit from that to repurchase shares to offset that dilution.
And we're comfortable with our leverage where it is and it allows us a lot of flexibility.
And keep in mind we are increasing capital which consumes some cash as well.
Okay.
That's perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was curious if you could talk a little bit more about the HEMISFARES' rollout.
It sounds like that would be a premium quality premium price point category.
And just curious in exactly which categories are you going to be launching that? How many stores? And really just stepping back and thinking about how does that come to fruition at Kroger? What's the idea process in terms of bringing that to market? Was that borne out of an 8451 kind of data science project? Or just any color on how that comes to market.
Well the biggest thing is it's really our Corporate Brands team would use the insights from 8451 plus other research they've done.
We find customers are increasingly becoming foodies.
And it's really trying to figure out how do you find great products that will satisfy that foodie need experience they want in a way that is actually a very affordable price.
And if you look at the quality of this product if you would go to a restaurant and eat food – eat something of this quality it would cost four or five times as much as what it costs with us.
So customers get to experience something that's very unique that's outstanding quality.
And it's really the team searching across the world finding items that are very very unique and very regionally based.
The initial items – I actually don't know how broad it is.
I can tell you the ones I've tried would be more pasta and sauce-based and olive oil and balsamic vinaigrette.
Those types of items are the ones that I've tried.
So the things I've tried are more based from Italy but I'm sure there's others.
It's just that's the ones I'm familiar with.
And the whole idea of HEMISFARES is to allow our customers to take a journey of food experience around the globe without having to leave home.
And it will be very specific on the packaging where the product's from.
The folks at our Corporate Brands who have procured this actually have met with and have visited with and helped with the folks who manufacture this product or produce the product on-site in their home country.
And some of this product it's the first time that anybody's gone through the trouble of importing the product with some of the items in into the U.S.
that we have.
So they've done a phenomenal job with this and we're really excited about yet another great offering for our customers in the stores.
Yeah we would expect it to be in almost all of our stores.
We think most customers will want to engage with it.
On some of the items there is a limited amount of production.
So it's – it's not something that you can just go out and produce twice as much if it sells twice as much.
That's very helpful.
And then just wanted to ask another question on deflation and some of the categories.
I think you mentioned that all departments was still comped positive even though you had some deflation in dairy and produce and maybe seafood for the quarter.
So I was just curious how you manage that.
Do you do some incremental promotions in those categories in order to drive volume and increase the comps there when you experience deflation or how do you manage that so stably? Well a lot of times it depends on what's driving the deflation.
In some categories you have deflation when the product is at its peak and tastes great.
If you look at like produce usually if there's deflation that means there's tons of product available and it's really great product so you end up selling more.
In other areas when you have deflation you're able to give such a great value for the customer for the item so you end up promoting it more and the volume grows.
So it's – we would drive our promotions based on what our insights tell us that customers like and at what point they like versus trying to just make sure we have every department positive.
But fortunately every department was positive identicals.
And I know Mike you were looking up some of the specific numbers? No I was just looking – when you look across the departments the strength of whether you look at the – just the IDs or the inflation adjusted ID sales it's really pretty remarkable how broadbased the strength of that – of the momentum is in various departments.
I mean we had some departments that even on inflation adjusted basis were still double-digit ID sales inside their department.
And I'm excluding fuel and pharmacy from that.
So it's – at the end of the day it's really fundamental that I spoke of it earlier why we're so cognizant of what volume we're driving from a unit basis because that's at the end of the day what drives your business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Kelly.
And next we have a question from Robert Ohmes of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Oh thanks for taking my question and Mike congrats on the promo.
Thanks.
Just actually two kind of quick ones.
You know Mike I think you were alluding somewhat to the wage pressures.
Can you walk us through is the wage pressures a lot more than normal for Kroger right now and is that sort of a broader economic thing? And then maybe tie into that so maybe more commentary on any changes you're seeing in your overall customer – HEMISFARES sounds like more upscale private label launch are you seeing change in amount of trade-up going on or any changes in different levels of your customers' behavior would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah the comments I made earlier weren't directly related to any wage pressures.
It was actually the – our own decision and Rodney mentioned it as well of certain departments where we invested some incremental hours in those departments to drive a better customer experience.
And it also happens to be departments where some of our tonnage has been very strong as well.
So those hours would have ultimately been in the stores anyway but it was in advance of that.
The wage pressures I would say aren't really any different than what we spoke of in the first quarter.
There continues to be some out there.
We're cognizant of trying to deliver the right overall package to our associates from a solid wage a good healthcare package and a retirement plan as well.
And we're a little different than a lot of our competitors where we're balancing all three of those for all of our associates.
As it relates to HEMISFARES I would put that in the category of the private selection and Simple Truth range where it is more of an upscale product.
And very high quality product.
And it's – but it does wind up having fairly broad appeal to a lot of folks because when you really step back and dissect a lot of customers there are many customers who on some items are a budget shopper on other items they wind up splurging on particular items.
And these can be the kinds of items those folks wind up splurging on while in other departments they're perfectly happy with an entry level price point or a banner brand that's a lower price point for them.
I would say that the HEMISFARES as it develops in private selection and Simple Truth as that mix shifts towards those it is actually one of the things that is helping to drive our mix to be a little bit different than it has been historically as well.
Yeah the thing that's so hard to tell I don't think it's so much economy based as customers clearly want high quality food.
So if you look at the area's natural and organic Boar's Head Starbucks sushi all those areas all have strong nice growth.
So it's really – it really appears to be much different than just economy based.
When you talk to customers they are definitely interested in saving money.
There is no doubt about that.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Take care.
And our next question comes from Alvin Concepcion of Citi.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
And thanks for taking my question.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks.
I'll keep it to one question.
Just wondering if you can talk about changes in the competitive promotional environment for both the overall business and the natural and organic part of the portfolio? Are you seeing anything different as the second quarter progressed? And even third quarter to date? Yeah as you know when we look at competition we always assume that competition's going get more aggressive going forward than it's been in the past.
And we always find that if that doesn't happen then life's easier.
It's just the way we've years ago learned to do our business plan.
We wouldn't see anything that would be major in changes.
There's always a certain promotion or you'll see things that different competitors do.
And you'll see it even within weeks changing.
So there isn't anything that I would say is a huge change in second quarter versus first quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Take care Alvin.
The next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth of Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning.
Certainly had a nice bounce the fuel margins here in recent months.
If some of this persists would you anticipate reinvesting that back into the business? Or do you think that would – you'd let that flow through to the bottom line? It's obviously a good question.
It's one where I don't think I would really be able to answer it at this point because it really depends what's going on in the marketplace and what we think is the best use of that.
So at this point I really wouldn't think it would be appropriate to answer it.
Okay.
And then just curious on your click and collect experience in those newer markets.
Are the customers signing up for some of those longer term fees like the monthly or annual fees? Or are they gravitating more to the pay per visit approach? You actually have customers doing all three.
I would say the most customers are on the two extremes.
They do the yearly approach or the per order approach.
But it's not one of those things where you see 80% of the customers going one way or the other.
Can you tell if it's incremental in those new markets? Some of the basket would be incremental but it's still so early that it's – the answer I gave you is what we're seeing but I wouldn't use a whole lot of basis off of it because the sample size is still too small.
It's a data point not a trend.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you and congrats a good quarter.
Thanks Mark.
Thanks Mark.
Take care.
The next question comes from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital markets.
Thanks and good morning.
I want to follow up on the volatility that you cited in the product costs.
First on pharmacy inflation with generics can you quantify or even specifically or directionally how much that affected gross margin? Yeah I wouldn't talk about a direct effect on gross margin but I will tell you that pharmacy inflation in the quarter continued to be above 90%.
Okay.
And again that wasn't pass through due to the contracts and so forth? Well you have contracts out there that you have to wait until you can pass it through.
But also keep in mind as generic inflation happens we have $4 30-day supply and $10 90-day supply and we haven't changed those price points either.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And when you talked about managing inflation and deflation you had a good follow-up I thought on the pricing versus market share.
Let me ask you about just on the inventory side.
Does Kroger try to either go long commodities or inflating or be a little short those are deflating? Or is it when you talk about managing is it much more about being sharp on pricing and managing it between – using price to lever either market share or profitability? We do some things for consumption in own manufacturing plants when we look at supply of products and the supply chain that is out there.
We don't go overboard on hedges and we really don't use hedges so much.
It would be cash purchase contracts to lock in a price for a period of time.
We typically don't get too excited about doing those things unless the current prices and projected prices are trending below a five-year rolling average because it's – if you talk to people in the oil industry today oil's only going do one thing and that's go down.
When oil prices are going up and you talk to somebody in the oil industry they're only going do one thing and that's go up forever.
And I would say most people in the commodities world have that view.
So we're very careful about how we do it.
The amount we consume is actually pretty large so we try not to be – I use the term a lot internally: I'd rather be approximately correct than precisely wrong.
And if I make too big a bet one way or the other I'd probably be precisely wrong.
Last thing.
So that – what you just described is only for the vertically integrated part of the business the manufacturing? It doesn't permeate to retail at all or does it? Yeah so for example I wouldn't go out if I see something happen in produce and try to hedge the apple crop this fall.
You probably can't effectively do that anyway but we do things with growers trying to lock up fields and things like that but that's more to make sure we have the exact product we want not necessarily – we do that regardless of the inflationary environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew – Andy.
One more question.
We have time.
Yes.
And that last question will come from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hi.
This is actually Brian Cullinane on for Scott.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to talk broadly – your business model is clearly unique and advantaged with the data technology that you guys have.
I just wanted to touch on how you guys think about expanding and whether it's through square footage growth and acquisitions or building more stores getting your store and you're offering to more consumers kind of in areas that you're not currently in? Well if you look in terms of going to territories that we are not in at all as you know historically we've done that through mergers and we're always as Mike mentioned earlier looking out for the right one to do something with.
We're finding incredible opportunity on fill-ins and most of the incremental capital that Mike talked about is what we're finding is incremental project opportunities for great projects in existing markets.
And right now that's the highest focus.
Now that doesn't mean that we wouldn't go into a new territory de novo at some point.
Great.
And any thought to – you're spending more on capital but to accelerate any of that with the success that you're having with some of the new stores and new projects? Well we feel like we already are.
If you look at the incremental capital that we're spending and we continue to push that.
So you're always looking for opportunities to grow but grow and make sure you execute and we feel like we have started picking up that pace.
Yeah I prefer an environment where I have a bunch of division presidents upset with me that they have great projects that we haven't been able to fund because of our capital what they would call capital constraints and spending $3.3 billion this year doesn't sound real constrained to me.
So if they weren't clamoring for more dollars I'd be nervous about our opportunities but as long as they're clamoring I feel good about where we are.
That's great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Brian.
Before we end today's call I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge that this morning is the 14th anniversary of the attacks of September 11.
I know that many on the call today were personally affected by those events.
We continue to mourn those we lost on that horrific day and to honor their memory through our support for police fire fighters and other first responders as well as the military and their families.
At the 9/11 – I recently had a chance to go to the 9/11 Memorial and Museum and it's incredibly touching and I'm sure most people on the call have but if you haven't it's well worth seeing and it really does make you appreciate all the things that the police fire fighters and other first responders did on that morning.
Finally I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
One of the most exciting things about working for a growing and expanding company is the additional opportunities it creates for associates.
Many of you would agree that Kroger is a place where you can come for a job and stay for a career.
When I ask associates and managers why they've stayed most tell me they fell in love with working with people our customers and associates or they found a deep passion for food.
Often it's both.
As I mentioned earlier nearly 70% of our store managers started as hourly associates.
I believe there are many young people working for us today who will become our future leaders and will be having Mike's role and other senior leaders' roles and mine.
Our associates are people who care who want to connect with something bigger and make a difference in our communities every day.
We ask candidates to imagine you at Kroger because whether you're looking for a flexible part-time job or for a lasting and rewarding career you can find it here.
And we're looking for friendly bright people who want opportunities to learn and grow.
This is such an exciting time to be at Kroger.
Together we do make a difference.
That completes our call for today.
Thanks for joining.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to The Kroger Co.
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Cindy Holmes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our third quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our Web-site at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
I would like to thank you for attending our 2015 Investor Conference in October.
We appreciated the opportunity to share with you our strategy and to give you a chance to hear from other members of our senior management team.
I will now turn the call over to Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rodney McMullen.
Thank you Cindy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's third quarter 2015 results is Mike Schlotman Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Hopefully you saw our announcement earlier this week that Cindy Holmes has been promoted to Senior Director of Pension Investments.
I wanted to take a moment to thank Cindy for her service in Investor Relations.
Both Mike and I appreciate Cindy's efforts these past several years which you know have been exciting and transformative years for Kroger.
We know she'll continue to contribute to Kroger's success in her new role.
I'd also like to introduce Kate Ward who has been promoted to Director of Investor Relations.
Kate joined Kroger in 2001 and has held a number of leadership roles in our audit and finance departments.
We hope you'll join us in welcoming Kate to her new role.
We often say that Kroger's success starts and ends with our more than 400 000 associates connecting with our customers every day.
Our third quarter results are a terrific example of our team's ever-deepening connection with customers.
We achieved our 48th consecutive quarter i.e.
12 consecutive years of positive identical supermarket sales growth with very strong ID sales of 5.4%.
We exceeded our goal to slightly expand FIFO operating margin without fuel on a rolling four-quarter basis and we continued to manage costs so that we can continue investing to grow our business for the future while delivering today.
Based on Kroger's strong third quarter performance we are raising our identical supermarket sales guidance and our net earnings per diluted share guidance for the year.
During the third quarter we contributed $80 million to the UFCW Consolidated Pension Plan.
This is the latest in a series of steps we've taken during the last four years to help stabilize pension benefits for our associates while continuing to deliver strong shareholder value.
In January 2012 we agreed to establish the UFCW Consolidated Pension Plan by working with the union to consolidate four multi-employer pension funds into one.
This agreement protected pensions already earned and provided greater stability for future benefits of more than 65 000 Kroger associates.
In June 2014 we announced similar agreements with two additional multi-employer pension funds.
All of these steps reflect our strategic decision to increase certainty of pension benefits for our associates.
These are examples of how we identify opportunities to use our financial flexibility.
We are very excited about our pending merger with Roundy's.
We have filed our tender offer documents and while we wait for the conclusion of that process and regulatory approval I simply want to reiterate how much we are looking forward to welcoming Roundy's team to the Kroger family of stores.
The economy overall continues to slowly improve and customers continue to feel more optimistic but the bifurcation in the economy remains.
Some customers are willing to spend more while others are worried about their job or next paychecks are more focused on saving.
We find that all customers want quality products and a great shopping experience.
For the customer who's more focused on natural and organic products we have our own Simple Truth brand.
We also have many entry-level price point items of excellent quality.
For customers looking for incredibly high quality products like Boar's Head or Murray's Cheese just to name a couple we have that too.
Our job is to understand and deliver for our diverse set of customers so that they can save where they want to save and splurge where they want to splurge.
Finally before I turn it over to Mike I would like to note that there is an important global dialog taking place that underscores the positive role businesses can play in sustainability.
Kroger's team has been making progress to integrate sustainable practices into our everyday business operations.
For example our stores and manufacturing facilities have made significant progress by reducing the amount of waste sent to landfills.
In five years the number of stores recycling food waste has increased 73% from 290 to more than 1 000 this year.
30 of our 37 manufacturing plants are sending zero waste to landfills an increase of nine facilities since 2013.
Taken together along with a lot of other efforts Kroger is sending 69% less waste to landfills than we used to and we will continue to work toward zero waste.
This is only possible due to the thousands of individual activities our associates are doing on a daily basis.
Their efforts are helping make each community we serve a better place to live and they have helped Kroger earn a spot on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year.
More than 600 companies in North America are evaluated each year and only the top 20% are listed on the index.
This is obviously something we are very proud of.
We look forward to sharing our new five-year sustainability goals with an eye toward pushing even faster and having more accelerated progress in the near future.
As you can see we have a lot going on at Kroger.
I am thrilled with our financial results and what we are doing for our associates our customers our communities and shareholders.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's third quarter results provide an update on labor relations and an update on our guidance for 2015.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
I'd like to echo with Rodney's comments relative to Cindy and also welcome Kate to the team.
First I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our results for the quarter in each of the key performance target areas for our long-term growth plan.
Our first metric is identical supermarket sales without fuel.
As Rodney noted earlier we are very pleased with our 5.4% identical supermarket sales growth in the third quarter.
It reflects the underlying strength of our core business and our associates' growing connection with customers.
Identical supermarket sales growth was driven by a combination of very strong tonnage growth plus an increase in both the number of households shopping with us and the number of visits per household in the third quarter.
As you know our goal is to grow the number of loyal households at a faster rate than the number of total households who shop with us.
I'm happy to report that we continue to meet this goal quarter after quarter.
All geographies and supermarket departments had positive identical supermarket sales excluding fuel during the quarter with our deli and produce departments leading the way.
We continue to see outstanding double-digit identical sales growth in our natural foods department.
Our second metric is FIFO operating margin without fuel.
Several items are excluded from our third quarter rolling four quarters calculation specifically the 2014 and 2013 adjustment items the contribution to The Kroger Co.
Foundation in the third and fourth quarters of 2014 and the contribution to the UFCW Consolidated Pension Plan in the fourth quarter of 2014 and third quarter of 2015.
While items like this occur over time we feel it is important to report how our operations are performing.
On this basis and without fuel FIFO operating margin increased 18 basis points in the third quarter.
Our operating margin has expanded more than our goal largely due to a combination of two factors; first continued stronger than expected ID sales; second the continued incremental investments we are making in our Customer 1st strategy are being made in a sustainable way based on insights from 84.51.
This is not a new normal for operating margin expansion but rather a demonstration of our diligence in how and when we invest.
Return on invested capital on a rolling four quarters basis was 14.16%.
We are not presenting a comparative number this quarter because of last year's third quarter calculation does not include a full year of Harris Teeter assets and results.
We continue to expect return on invested capital for fiscal 2015 to increase from fiscal 2014.
This is an important metric as we continue to increase our capital investment to drive our future growth.
Before I share our third quarter results in more detail I'd like to discuss how we are successfully managing through the current inflationary environment.
While inflation continued at a lower rate during the third quarter which we estimate was approximately 1.1% without fuel some commodities had high inflation and others had deflation.
We saw inflation in produce while meat seafood deli and milk were all deflationary.
We continue to see inflation in pharmaceuticals.
Now I'll share our third quarter results in more detail.
As you know we don't provide guidance for total sales because of the unpredictable influence that fuel has on our overall results.
Total sales in the third quarter were affected by the low retail price of fuel much like in the first and second quarters.
The average price of fuel during the third quarter was $2.30 compared to $3.22 last year.
Total sales in the third quarter increased 0.4% to $25.1 billion compared to $25 billion in the same period last year.
Excluding fuel total sales increased 5.5% in the third quarter compared to the same period last year.
In the third quarter our net earnings totaled $428 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
Net earnings in the same period last year were $362 million or $0.36 per diluted share including a $0.02 benefit due to certain tax items.
Excluding this Kroger's net adjusted earnings were $345 million or $0.35 per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
These numbers don't sum due to rounding.
Kroger recorded a $9 million LIFO charge during the third quarter compared to an $85 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year.
We have lowered our full-year LIFO expectation to $75 million from $90 million previously.
The FIFO gross margin excluding retail fuel operations decreased 4 basis points from the same period last year.
Strong identical supermarket sales growth and cost controls allowed Kroger to leverage core operating expenses as a rate of sales in the third quarter.
Total operating expenses excluding retail fuel operations a $25 million contribution to The Kroger Co.
Foundation in the third quarter of 2014 and an $80 million contribution to the UFCW Pension Plan in the third quarter of 2015 decreased 23 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the last year.
Third quarter FIFO profit excluding fuel and the adjustments I mentioned just a moment ago increased approximately $66 million over the prior year.
Now for retail fuel operations.
In the third quarter our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.238 compared to $0.232 in the same quarter last year.
Fuel results have been more difficult to predict than normal.
We did not expect fuel margins to remain this high this late in the year.
Our expectation for the fourth quarter is a moderation in margins.
Volatility in weekly fuel costs remains high and where those costs end up will influence our fourth quarter results.
Corporate brands' performance during the third quarter was strong representing approximately 27.7% of total units sold and 25.9% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
Simple Truth continues to grow at an astonishing rate setting a record high for total sales in the third quarter while continuing to establish all-time weekly sales records throughout the quarter.
Our newest brand HemisFares has been embraced by foodie customers so much so that we are currently working with our Sicilian Gelato supplier to expand capacity while maintaining the best-in-the-world quality of the product.
I will provide a brief update on labor relations.
We ratified contracts with the UFCW for store associates in Denver and with the Teamsters covering our Southern California distribution centers.
We are currently negotiating a contract with the UFCW for store associates in Portland.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable health care and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising health care and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates should have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and profitability which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
Kroger's long-term financial strategy is to use its financial flexibility to drive growth while also returning capital to shareholders.
Maintaining its current investment grade debt rating is the cornerstone of this and it allows the Company to use cash flow to take advantage of strategically and financially compelling opportunities and to continue its fill-in strategy repurchase shares and fund the dividend which is expected to increase over time.
Our strong financial position has allowed us to return $1.1 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters.
During the third quarter Kroger repurchased approximately 853 000 common shares for a total investment of $31 million.
Capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and the purchases of leased facilities totaled $832 million for the third quarter compared to $681 million for the same period last year.
We expect capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and the purchases of leased facilities to slightly exceed $3.3 billion for the year.
We continue to see a strong pipeline of high quality projects and are encouraged by the results from our new stores.
In order to have a steady flow of projects and increase the total number of store projects we are spending on stores scheduled to open in 2016 to make sure they are ready to meet our target dates.
Additionally we continue to reduce the amount of time it takes to complete projects.
The Company's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio decreased to 1.99 compared to 2.27 during the same period last year.
We expect our net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio to remain under 2.2 upon the close of our Roundy's merger transaction.
Kroger's net total debt is $11.3 billion compared to $11.5 billion during the same period last year.
As I mentioned last quarter we have essentially maintained our absolute debt level while returning $1.1 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters investing $3.2 billion in capital on a rolling four quarters basis plus an additional $160 million on mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
In other words we are keeping our commitments to bondholders and shareholders while creating opportunities for our associates.
Now I'd like to update our growth objectives for the remainder of 2015.
Based on our strong year-to-date performance we raised our net earnings per diluted share guidance to a range of $2.02 to $2.04 for fiscal 2015.
The previous guidance was $1.92 to $1.98 per share.
This range exceeds the Company's long-term net earnings per diluted share growth rate of 8% to 11%.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend that's expected to increase over time.
As with our third quarter results the performance of fuel in the fourth quarter will determine where we end up in the range.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of 4% to 4.5%.
As we said in our press release this morning that implies an annual guidance range of approximately 5% to 5.25%.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
As you can see Kroger delivered another spectacular quarter and marked our 12th consecutive year of positive quarterly identical supermarket sales growth.
When you achieve such consistently remarkable results quarter after quarter it's easy to take them for granted.
In fact we have spent the past few years investing in our unique and multifaceted business model which we believe has been a key driver of our success.
We continually strive to innovate for our customers while delivering on our commitments to you our shareholders.
At a time when so many other retailers are facing very difficult circumstances Kroger continues to stand out from the pack thanks to our incredible associates.
Now we look forward to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
I apologize.
Mr.
Heinbockel's line has dropped from the queue.
Our next question comes from Ed Kelly of Credit Suisse.
This is Judah on for Ed.
Congrats on the quarter and congrats to Cindy and Kate on the new roles.
First just wanted to ask about the Q4 comp guidance is that an indication of where you're running Q4 to date or is there just some conservatism built into that given that you're early on in a big quarter? If you look at so far and obviously it's still very early in the quarter and we're cycling very strong numbers a year ago we would be at the top end of the range that we provided.
So it really isn't trying to be conservative it's just reflecting the fact that we're cycling some incredibly strong numbers and inflation continues to get a little lower.
The other thing that you never know is how is the weather going to flow.
Obviously snow is helpful for the business and that you really can't predict at all.
And then as Mike just mentioned to me this year we will not have a Super Bowl in the fourth quarter.
A year ago we had Super Bowl in the fourth quarter.
Okay that makes sense.
And then touching on the gross margin performance I mean you have lapped Harris Teeter fully now and we still don't see a lot of investment in margin.
And maybe Mike referenced it in that you're doing good work with 84.51 but is this kind of a new normal like a less than 10 basis point investment in ex-fuel gross margin? I'll hesitate to give what a normal is for an investment because we do continue to make investments in price in a variety of areas of our store.
I'd say it's a reflection of prudence on how and when we make investments.
Additionally the mix when you look at the strength of brands like Simple Truth when you look at the strength of natural and organics all of which have a little bit higher gross margin that certainly plays into the overall mix of business.
But if you were to look at gross margins by department I have a little bit different view of exactly how and when we invest.
But we will continue to invest not only in price but all four keys of our Customer 1st strategy.
And we continue to have strong growth in our fresh departments and most of the fresh departments have higher gross as well.
That makes sense.
Okay thanks.
The next question will come from William Kirk of RBC.
So you have a very good data analytics and targeted marketing so I was wondering what are you seeing in terms of available promotional dollars and how they are being allocated in-store versus out of store and I guess the question is kind of for the industry and more specifically if it's any different for you at Kroger? Obviously we really don't know what's going on across the industry because we only know what's happening for us.
What we are trying to do is work with our CPG partners and we really do view them as partners and what we're trying to focus on is how to grow their business and grow our business both.
And it's really trying to make sure that we effectively spend that money that they provide to us that we then in turn provide to our customers.
So it's really taking that data and helping our CPG partners to most effectively spend their money.
So all I can do is talk for what we are doing.
I really don't know what's going on in the industry.
Okay thank you.
That's all for me.
Next we have a question from Alvin Concepcion of Citi.
Congrats all on another great quarter and also congratulations to Cindy and Kate on the new roles.
I think most folks were pleased with the results and the outlook and it seems like you might be taking somewhat conservative approach because of things like fuel gross margin inflation and weather so wondering if you could run us through some of the puts and takes in the fourth quarter and more specifically what type of fuel gross margins are you baking in? When you look at the puts and takes as Rodney said weather is often difficult to predict.
Last year actually was a pretty favorable weather event for us.
Not only did we have the Super Bowl right at the end of the fourth quarter we also had a fairly large snow event in the Midwest at the end of the fourth quarter and both of those served to have some pretty strong sales that very last week of the quarter.
As I said in my prepared commands the ability to predict fuel margins this year has been more difficult than I can remember since we've been in the fuel business which is really since 1983 when we merged with Dillons Company.
It's not just where weekly retails and supply and things like that wind up it's really the day to day volatility of fuel in the open market because we don't have fuel contracts we buy everything in the open market.
And frankly we feel very good about where our core business is going the day to day runnings inside of our store and the ability to predict that and the strength of our ID sales as we noted with the guidance for the fourth quarter.
Where we wind up in the $2.02 to $2.04 will be wholly predicated on where fuel margins wind up for the quarter.
Great.
And then as a follow-up what are you sort of expecting in pharmacy margins and also I don't know might be too early but any color on 2016 puts and takes as well? On pharmacy it continues to be tough as it's been all year.
And there's obviously a ton of change going on.
And what we really remain focused on is making sure we're helping our customers.
We have a great team of friendly and knowledgeable professionals that will help our customers get healthy quicker and it eliminates one stop somewhere else.
When you look at overall we feel like we have very strong business model and it's also the nice thing about having such a diverse business when you look at across all our lines that we can make investments in pharmacy but when you look at the total business it continues to perform well.
Relative to 2016 guidance I'll say a couple of comments Mike and if you want to add anything but we'll give the details in March.
We have a meeting where we review our objectives with our Board and that obviously we're not going to share things publicly until the Board is in concert with what we're doing.
Couple of comments just to remind everyone and it really ties back to some of the things that Mike and I have already said fuel margins we would expect to more normalize.
And if you look at inflation we would expect it to continue to be less.
But when you look at overall and this isn't just for 2016 but our long-term objective remains to grow earnings per share by 8% to 11% plus an increasing dividend and that's the long-term objective.
And then we'll give more detail in 2016.
Okay thank you very much.
The next question comes from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
This is actually Erica Eiler on for Rupesh.
Just following up on your inflation comment just now just curious if you have any specific expectations for Q4? And then specifically next year I mean you mentioned you expected to go lower I mean any thoughts with regards to how we should think about generic drug inflation for the upcoming year? Generics continue to have a good amount of inflation in them.
Really don't see anything as we look into 2016 that would necessarily cause a moderation.
Part of that was driven by prices have gotten so low some folks got out of the manufacture of those products.
With good old supply and demand and just basic economic forces if underlying costs for those continue to be high at some point other folks will get back into the manufacture of that business and perhaps put pressure on that economic cycle.
Relative to inflation for the fourth quarter our view would be it would be in the range of where the third quarter was in the low 1s and as we look into next year we would certainly expect full year inflation for next year probably to be comparable to where inflation is for this year.
We don't see a lot out there in the overall supply chain that would cause us to be different.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then just switching gears to your loyalty program offering I mean we've seen a number of the specialty grocers recently discuss plans for new loyalty programs with different propositions for consumers across each.
Clearly Kroger has had success with fuel points in recent years.
I guess I'd just be curious how often do you tweak the value proposition with your loyalty card offering how important is the points part of the offering versus maybe some of the other components that your program offers any thoughts that you could share there would be really helpful? We would look at our loyalty program as not tweaking.
What we do is we continually use the insights to improve what our customers get and it's based on how customers react.
So it's constantly using what customers actually do to try to do a better offer for our customers on a personalized basis.
And the examples you gave would just be small parts of what the overall loyalty offering is for a customer.
And the key for anybody doing it is how do you make it worth something the customer finds of value.
Okay great.
Thanks and best of luck for the rest of the year.
The next question comes from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Cindy we'll miss you.
And Kate look forward to working with you.
I just wanted to follow-up go back to 2016 on a higher level.
I guess can you maybe elaborate a little bit more on the Medicare Part D component because I guess the color would be the reimbursement rates could come down fairly meaningfully and so I realize that could be maybe a bigger headwind for you in 2016.
Obviously gas margins are a wildcard but then as I think about maybe tailwind for 2016 Roundy's accretion could be a bit more of a tailwind than you've guided to.
Inflation is kind of neutral.
Any more color you could give on any of those? As Rodney said we're not going to go too far down the path of talking about 2016.
Clearly the litany of things you laid out it's almost as if you have the draft of our business plan Board book that we're getting ready to take up at the end of the month and send to our Board about the topics we will discuss with them in January.
All of those are on our radar screen.
We are putting all of those into the mix as we decide what 2016 is going to look like with our Board.
As Rodney said we're committed to the 8% to 11% as the long-term earnings per share growth target and it just wouldn't be whoever either he or I if we want to be on the March call to get out in front of our Board with talking about 2016 much more.
Okay that's fair.
And I guess just looking at the O&amp;A growth rate this quarter excluding rents and depreciation I guess when I look at the last three quarters it's been pretty consistent kind of in the 5.5% range and I realize for next year Roundy's is going to impact that number but is that kind of – do you think that's a fair run rate to look at on a more sustainable basis? 5.5%? I missed the first part of your comment.
It seemed to be that you've been kind of consistently in that 5.5%-ish range for the first three quarters of the year.
So excluding what Roundy's might do to that number is that kind of the right run rate to think about on a more sustainable basis because I know we had talked about there were some investments in services and things like that that you were making because you knew it would drive sales so I just kind of wanted an update on that? I actually haven't calculated exactly what our OG&amp;A growth has been and I don't know if you've taken out the one-time items from those if you look at our core business.
Our rate of sales is – and whether you're doing it with or without fuel.
Our ongoing – if I look at it without fuel it's actually under – year to date it's actually under a 5% increase and that's including the pension contribution in there.
We look at those service investments the same way we look at price investments and we step back and we have a very defined plan and a very diligent plan of what we expect to do in departments and how we expect to make incremental investments in all four keys of the Customer 1st strategy.
And some of those are price which become more obvious because of the gross margin calculation.
Other of those are a little less obvious because when you look at things like service that can get drastically covered up the whole idea of adding service in some of these departments would be to grow sales and that's how they wind up getting paid for.
So overall we would expect to continue to drive operating costs down and use that as part of the fuel for the engine to continue to invest.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Ken Goldman of JP Morgan.
Cindy and Kate congratulations on your new roles.
Two questions from me.
One a little bit of a follow-up on a question that was asked earlier but a lot of the CPG companies especially on the packaged food side companies like Kraft they are running that 3G playbook they are talking they are very vociferous actually about how they're trying to get off that promo needle get much more about baseline sales.
I'm not talking about any particular vendor but are you seeing any evidence that that's actually taking place where a lot of your larger food vendors are perhaps getting a little bit less aggressive with [peel-backs] [ph] or is it really not affecting anything yet from your view? I will answer the question that will partially answer your question.
What we find is CPG companies we deal with a lot of different CPG companies and any point in time you will have different companies with different strategies.
And we have a team that will work with CPGs based on the strategy that they're playing.
What we find is when CPGs raise prices when it's not economically driven our corporate brands always picks up market share and it's one of the values of having an incredibly strong corporate brand program is that when there's something that doesn't make economic sense the customer understands that.
So at any point in time probably almost any comment you would make on a CPG there's somebody out there running that playbook and each one would have their own playbook.
Okay.
That's actually helpful and you know what I'm going to leave it there and thanks very much.
The next question is from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Wanted to ask about your – you gave some helpful commentary around the macro environment and kind of the puts and takes of the consumer spending behaviors and if we try to in the sense kind of reconcile that with your natural organic your corporate brands specifically of course continue to tick up what are you seeing as you're looking at your loyalty data? Have there been any notable changes in terms of kind of categories or products that are going into the basket more or less and I guess in turn are you changing the way you're maybe space allocating in any way that might be helpful to share with us? If you look at – there's constantly changes going on in the basket and it's not so much new but if you look at the fresh departments that's been a trend that's been ongoing for a long period of time and isn't slowing down at all.
The things that you took up mentioned on natural and organic that as well.
We look at space allocation it's something that is really important to do on an ongoing basis.
And one of the examples I always like to give is coffee.
If you asked me three years ago or four years ago what I thought was going to be the future of the coffee category I wouldn't have been very positive.
Today because of innovation by Starbucks and Keurig Green Mountain it's completely created a different type of growth in that category and we are continually adding spaces on what's inside the store because the customers want it and it's something that is driven by innovation.
So the change in allocation is more driven by innovation than probably anything else and how the customers react to that innovation.
Okay all right that's helpful.
And maybe just a quick follow up just on Roundy's just checking does it still look like the deal should be closing before the end of this calendar year? As Rodney said in our prepared comments we filed our tender offer and we filed with the regulators and it's pending both of those coming to a closure.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Next we have a question from Robert Ohmes of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two questions one just on the inflation.
I thought the commentary about produce is inflationary and meat seafood deli et cetera deflationary Mike I think you've made comments in the past about there's good deflation and bad deflation and so as you're looking into fourth quarter and then into the 2016 overall inflation being similar can you maybe speak to the components sort of how inflation is playing out right now if you guys think that produce is still inflationary sort of the same dynamics? And then remind us if these are better dynamics than other ways to get to this sort of lower level of inflation? And then if you can maybe just weave in what you're seeing in the competitive environment right now is it same worse better? Relative to inflation overall it continues to be a mixed bag and particularly when you look at the fresh departments like produce like meat like seafood produce in particular it generally bounces around a lot during the year.
When you see dramatic inflation in produce it's not a good selling season because it's been bad growing for whatever region it is that's there.
Earlier in the year when we saw a lot of dramatic deflation in produce it was driven by two things one last year's first quarter was relatively strong inflation and then this year you had a good growing crop.
So you're really back to a more normal kind of a crop for produce.
And actually if you look it on a two-year basis the first quarter last year and the first quarter this year combined they were slightly inflationary.
So it's more of a normal.
While the fourth quarter was inflationary it was just slightly inflationary.
Meat obviously has gotten a lot of headlines as having been so high for so long.
High prices clearly did what supply and demand do.
High prices over time people stopped eating as much meat and whether it's beef or chicken or pork.
That means supply picks up a little bit and guess what prices start to come down.
And if you look at on a – if a two-year stack on something like inflation makes any sense at all we are still net higher than we were a couple of years ago but still well down from the peaks of last year.
So it's a mixed bag.
We think things like that are going to persist into 2016.
The wildcard is always exactly where this pharmaceutical inflation is going to be and it has been very very high for really the last couple of years.
Relative to the competitive environment I don't think there's a time that Rodney and I have been doing these calls together that we haven't talked about this being a highly competitive industry.
Barriers to entry are low.
Our job is to go out every day with our more than 400 000 associates and deliver a better value proposition to our customers today than we did yesterday and that's solely what we're focused on.
Sure we keep an eye on the competitive environment.
There are a lot of people out there trying to sell what we sell and our job is just to do it a little bit better every day and win that customer every day when they wake up and make sure they want to come to Kroger.
Great.
And just a quick follow up could you guys give us a quick list update on those I think it was 19 non-Harris Teeter stores and how that's progressing? It's still something that we are still early in the test.
We continue to roll it out for customers.
Some customers like it a lot and it's just one more reason to shop at Kroger.
Got it.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
So I just wanted to get back to something you mentioned on the gross margin which was the mix shifting.
I wanted to get your perspective on kind of what inning we're in on that mix shift? I mean obviously you've got fast growing categories like private-label Better-for-You private-label you have the fresh categories.
I do believe you guys are in the process of updating your prepared food area as well which tends to have a lot better gross margins.
So as we look out and this is really not next year or it's really more of a three-year outlook it seems to me that this mix shift should remain and maybe even accelerate and it'd be helpful.
Am I off base on that? Scott it's a phenomena that continues and to say what inning we would be in on the changing needs and desires of the consumer would be it will probably be short-sighted on my part and I would be absolutely wrong.
We certainly do a lot of predictive analytics with data we see not just inside our stores but overall in the economy trying to figure out where the consumer is going.
It clearly does seem as though there's going to be persistence and shift to a more healthy lifestyle and maybe out of some of the traditional center-of-the-store categories into more fresh categories.
But I would tell you there are plenty of center-of-the-store categories that now have natural and organic offerings in a can whether it's our own Simple Truth brand with spaghetti sauces and salsas and things like that.
If you go down the dog food aisle the growth in the dog food aisle is in grain-free and natural kind of dog food so even our pets are jumping onto the bandwagon of leading a healthier lifestyle.
Everybody is laughing at me in the room by the way.
But it's something that our job is to make sure we're there to deliver what the customer wants when they want it and we will certainly stay on track with it in trying to predict where the customer is going.
I don't think I'll get into that but we're happy with our overall offering we're happy with our continued growth and thrilled with the team we have working on not just the center-of-the-store and keeping it to healthy and [vibrant] [ph] category but all the fresh departments around the perimeter of the store as well.
Scott you have followed Kroger for a long time and you know one of the things that we try to do is make sure we design our business model so it's successful regardless the environment and try to really play to what's going on in the environment.
And some of those examples that's what's going on now but customers change and we try to make sure that we stay nimble enough to be able to react to those changes.
Okay perfect.
And then I actually had a question.
At the Analyst Day you guys laid out a very compelling case about market share and how that drives returns over time and that one of the big growth drivers you've seen for Kroger is taking some markets that maybe are a little bit below where the ideal share is and driving them up.
As I survey your business one of those areas seems to be the mid-Atlantic and Southeast that happen to be with Harris Teeter.
How do we think about those areas geographically and what you can do to maybe get the market shares up over 20% to really drive some handsome returns? Other than at the Analyst Day we did give specifics on one market.
We won't make it a habit of giving specifics.
So we really do look at across all of the opportunities.
When we merged with Harris Teeter one of the things we talked about was one of the reasons we were excited about merging with Harris Teeter was the opportunities that they had in several of the markets that you mentioned.
We're equally or more excited today about that opportunity going forward as when we merged with Harris Teeter.
So beyond that I won't get into any more specifics on a market other than as we outlined we see this as a long-term opportunity across a lot of markets.
So densing up would definitely help you guys in those markets? It would help us in most of our markets.
Yes as we have long said the higher our market share the higher our ROA in a particular market and that's really the cornerstone of our fill-in strategy is increasing the number of markets with that high correlation.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
The next question will come from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
It's actually Steve on for John today.
As it relates to the capital development program is there a focus on speeding up the pace of investment here I guess to capitalize on some opportunities or should we still assume the $200 million of incremental spend annually looking out? Again I won't get into what our guidance is for 2016 but we do continue to have a great pipeline of projects and are very encouraged by our early projects.
We will continue to grow capital as we go into 2016 compared to 2015.
The $200 million is a number that I would say for the next several years we would increase capital by at least that amount.
Keep in mind as I increase capital or I increase my base my store base and the number of stores I also have to increase maintenance capital a little bit to keep those stores fresh over time.
So it's not just an allocation a new allocation to new stores I'm going to have to make sure I continue to take care of the base operations as well.
And part of the thing that Mike talked about on speeding up it's really our real estate teams our facility engineering teams our division teams and our attorneys are working together to take time out of the process on how long it takes to get a store open.
So it's really everybody working together actually taking weeks out of construction time which is causing some of the acceleration of capital investment.
Right.
And just a follow up as we try to figure out the impact here of the development program can you try to remind us of I guess the normal comp maturation of a marketplace or the maturation of the store level EBITDA margin? When you say the normal comp maturation what do you mean? I guess the store opens at an initial productivity of 70% or so.
I mean what is – year one and year two there's going to be a benefit on the comp side.
Do you see a pretty significant ramp both in comp and profitability at the store level? Clearly when you open a store the first 6 to 12 months of that store opening with all the preopening costs get expensed on the day you open.
It takes a while for that store to turn block on an EBITDA standpoint.
It doesn't become a comp store until the fifth full quarter that it's opened the way we do IDs.
So it's a while before they contribute to IDs.
In some markets as we dense up you have the potential to have a little bit of sister store impact.
So from a total sales standpoint you are getting exactly what you wanted from an ID standpoint in a particular geography.
You may have a little degradation in a particular geography from their ID sales as you dense up in a particular market.
Now some of these markets our market share is low enough where that won't be as big of a deal but we continue to monitor that as well.
The next question is from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
On the ID sales I want to compare them to Q2 because it was kind of the same number both for the [print] [ph] and for the inflation.
So I think I recall in Q2 you said it was very much volume driven and I'm not sure you said that here I think I hear you talking a little more about mix.
Should we take away from that that number has a better mix element this quarter than last quarter? It was heavily driven by volume again very strong.
In my prepared comments I said it was a combination of very strong tonnage plus an increase in the number of households shopping with us and the number of visits per household during the timeframe.
So it's a combination of all of those.
But tonnage was very strong.
Okay good to hear.
So there is no real update on mix if sort of the bifurcated message continues? It really is the same thing that continues to play out but now it's playing out on top of years where it played out.
So it's growth on top of growth.
Few more follow-ups.
On 84.51 you've been asked about it and you pointed to it can you maybe call out some areas of the marketing where it really is helping where you used to sort of you need promotions but is it also in pricing and I know you've been asked about allocation but could you give us a high level there as to where it's currently is it helping the business more than has maybe as we're used to hearing about? And also when you announced the split from Dunnhumby you said you could probably work with some or are excited to work with similar companies.
Any update there would be helpful as well.
On working with other companies that we wouldn't share at this point other than saying that that's something that is part of what we are allowed to do now and we work against that.
On helping more than the past one of the things even some of the examples that you gave just by continuing to learn and continuing to be more integrated we're making progress on top of where we were.
So to me the biggest improvement and change has been in the meetings now the 84.51 team is part of the same meeting.
So you're not having a discussion and deciding what to do and then going back and sitting down with 84.51 to say okay here's what we want you to do.
It's actually everybody in the same meeting and their insights to say you're thinking about this but it's probably better if you think about it this way.
And it's really the professional insights and experiences that's helping us accelerate where we are versus necessarily just doing something new.
And in the past while we owned half of them they would have not been always around the table initially because we did only own half of them and they had obligations outside the Kroger world as well.
So you had another follow-up? Yes just real quick on the $80 million pension contribution I assume that was contemplated in your guidance either for the quarter or for the year.
I just wanted to double-check that.
It is contemplated in the guidance in the $2.02 to $2.04 for the year.
Those are things that with some of the strong fuel margins rather than that happening a little bit every so often we've taken opportunity to put the money in when we have that tailwind.
It gets the money into the fund and they can start putting it to work faster than if we did it over time.
Thanks.
And I also wanted to just congratulate Cindy on a great job these past few years.
With all these accolades for Kate and Cindy I'm going to have to warn Kate that the glow goes away pretty fast.
We have time for one more question.
And that last question will come from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
I'll just reiterate good luck to Cindy in the Pensions and just wanted to ask a question about relative price gaps.
I feel like everywhere I turn in the industry someone's telling me just how aggressive you're being with price.
Our studies show something similar.
And your gross margin is just holding up remarkably well.
You talked about the mix.
But I guess I'm just wondering if you could talk about how you feel about your relative price gaps do you think you have maintained them widened them what do you think the plan for next year is? If you look at longer-term we've always assumed that markets will get more competitive and that's been part of our business model really starting they've caused us to start that years ago and it's something that we just [indiscernible] changing at all.
The gap I guess I would word it a different way you're always trying to get better but you are proud of where the progress you have made and it's something that's very important for us to be able to make sure that we're giving our customers a better deal.
Price is one element of that but service is just as important and we're focused as much on that in terms of fresher product and better service as well.
And all of those things together is what we think creates a unique model for Kroger and is driving a lot of our success.
Great that's helpful.
And then just a question on the pension contribution.
It seems like and I don't know if I'm thinking about this the right way but when you have this very strong gas margin environment that generates a little extra cash and earnings you kind of offset that with these kind of one-time contributions is that the right way to think about that in terms of how you plan for these? And then just what is the status of the consolidated UFCW plan at this point? The status of it is it's in great shape.
Cindy will make sure it stays that way.
We did joke internally that it was her going away present from IR to the Pension Group but that wasn't.
These funds will need money over time.
Our enrolment in these plans continues to grow.
Folks continue to earn benefits.
We have a great investment strategy but they do require funds over time and while we would budget them in to be made at different points in time as I said earlier when we have the opportunity and a little bit of tailwind and a few extra dollars in the coffers we feel it's prudent to go ahead and put that money into the fund let the fund put that money to work as quickly as possible to generate the return and continue to have strong benefits for our associates.
Great.
Thank you.
Before we end today's call I'd like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
As I said a few minutes ago Kroger's consistent outstanding results are easy to take for granted.
The fact is your hard work in our stores and facilities every day makes it all possible.
Your commitment to our customers brings our Customer 1st strategy to life.
In large and small ways each and every day what you do makes these terrific results possible.
The holiday season is such a special time of the year in our stores all over the country.
You help millions of customers every day prepare for celebrations at their schools offices churches homes and more.
Thank you for your hard work to make the holidays brighter for each of them.
You also make it a season for giving by working with Feeding America the Salvation Army and other local community partners who help work with us to donate food and other items where they are needed most.
Thank you.
And thank you for being part of our big Kroger family.
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to you and your family.
That completes our call today.
Thanks for joining.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The Kroger Company fourth quarter earnings conference call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kate Ward Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before we begin I want to remind you that today's discussion will include forward-looking statements.
We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially.
A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings but Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information.
Both our fourth quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com.
After our prepared remarks we look forward to taking your questions.
In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question if necessary.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rodney McMullen.
Thanks Kate and welcome to investor relations.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me to review Kroger's fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 results is Mike Schlotman Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Let me just start by saying wow what a year.
I'm delighted to report that Kroger executed on our growth plan and delivered on our financial performance commitments in 2015.
We delivered our 49th consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales growth without fuel and our 11th consecutive year of market share growth.
We met our goal to increase capital investment while improving return on invested capital.
And excluding Roundy's we exceeded our commitment to slightly expand FIFO operating margin excluding fuel.
Our 431 000 associates make it all happen.
I am very proud of our team.
By keeping our focus on serving one customer at a time we continue to deliver for our customers and for our shareholders with remarkable consistency.
I also want to welcome the Roundy's associates in Wisconsin and Chicago to the Kroger family.
Our merger closed in December and integration is well underway.
As we've gotten to know the people at Roundy's it is clear they share our values and desire to make a difference for our customers.
We continue to successfully expand the technologies that Harris Teeter and Vitacost.com brought to Kroger which provide an even better shopping experience for our customers.
We developed ClickList our shop online pickup at the store service based on what we learned from Harris Teeter's express lane.
I am pleased to share that we've expanded ClickList from one market to seven markets.
We continue to improve the offering and our customers and associates both are providing very positive feedback.
We are testing Vitacost.com's technology and ship to home infrastructure in Denver through a pilot in our King Sooper's division.
We are also testing a similar endless aisle experience in our new store format that we launched earlier this month in Gig Harbor Washington.
We are very excited about this new community focused grocery store concept called Main &amp; Vine.
Main &amp; Vine mixes local specialty and everyday products all at affording prices.
It re-imagines the modern grocery shopping experience placing in the middle of the store fresh produce and bulk items along with an event center where shoppers can enjoy cooking demonstrations food and beverage tastings and find a new recipe idea for dinner tonight.
Customer feedback has been very positive.
2015 was a big year for our Corporate Brands portfolio accounting for more than $20 billion of our total revenue.
During the quarter Corporate Brands represented approximately 29% of total units sold and 26.2% of sales dollars excluding fuel and pharmacy.
Simple Truth continues to grow at an incredible rate setting sales records quarter after quarter.
The brand reached $1.5 billion in revenue for the year.
And already in 2016 Simple Truth expanded to be a true lifestyle brand with the introduction of Simple Truth household personal care and baby products.
We expect 2016 to be an exciting year of continued innovation throughout our Corporate Brands portfolio.
Needless to say there's a lot going on at Kroger.
We are creating a seamless experience for our customers whether experimenting with new formats driving digital engagement or launching new Corporate Brand products we believe that combining Kroger's culture of innovation with our culture of opportunity will continue to support our growth.
Kroger has an incredibly strong management team and a deep bench of leaders throughout our business.
We are incrementally investing in leadership development and training for all our associates including high volume store managers and future senior leaders.
And we have created 9 000 new jobs last year at all levels which means even more opportunities for current associates to grow and advance.
For example we established a new operating division the Dallas division which created dozens of new leadership opportunities.
Looking at the economy and customer shopping behavior during 2015 we noticed that customer sentiment held relatively stable throughout the year versus previous years in which their attitudes were more volatile.
In the past few months we've seen the top economic concerns shift from rising healthcare costs to the stock market.
Customers have more disposable income as a result of significantly lower fuel prices yet economic uncertainty remains which typically causes people to cut back on discretionary spending.
That said an interesting insight is that our customers continue to spend with us.
If you look at some of our high quality offerings such as Murray's Cheese Private Selection Starbucks and Boar's Head or at the strength of our wine and craft beer business it is clear that customers across all demographics want a great food experience.
Because Kroger is doing a better job offering high quality food at affordable prices we continue to win with our customers even as they remain cautious about their overall spending.
2015 was an outstanding year for Kroger.
We delivered on our performance targets and continue to expand our use of technology to drive growth.
In 2016 we will continue making a difference for our customers and associates growing our business and delivering value for shareholders.
Now Mike will offer more detail on Kroger's financial results and outline our guidance for 2016.
Mike? Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone.
As Rodney said wow what a year.
We exceeded all four of our financial performance commitments for the year.
Identical supermarket sales and net earnings per diluted share growth FIFO operating profit margin and return on invested capital were all better than our annual and long-term guidance.
Market share growth continued improving by 40 basis points with 17 markets of 20 markets outlined by Nielsen POS Plus data up and just one market down.
We had a lot of unique items in last year's fourth quarter which make comparisons more complicated.
So I would like to spend the next few minutes discussing the story behind the numbers for our fourth quarter and fiscal year and to give you some color on those and the current operating environment.
There's a lot of speculation about inflation or deflation or disinflation.
We believe a deeper dive is required when the operating environment has increased volatility.
When you look at identical supermarket sales you should not come to the conclusion that less inflation is fundamentally a bad thing.
In fact if you look at our real growth in the fourth quarter that is identical supermarket sales less inflation this year's fourth quarter result was stronger than last year's fourth quarter when identical sales were over 6%.
Tonnage stayed strong with over 3% unit growth during the quarter.
And the strong tonnage allowed us to grow FIFO gross profit dollars excluding fuel and Roundy's by 4.4% in the quarter.
All but one supermarket department had positive identical supermarket sales excluding fuel during the quarter.
Our natural foods deli and produce departments led the way.
The meat department was slightly negative due to 5% deflation in the category.
This deflation has allowed retail prices to return to levels where more customers can re-enter the category or increase their purchases.
As a result of strong tonnage the meat department had a great quarter with strong FIFO gross profit dollar growth.
This is what we often refer to as good deflation.
Our operating costs as a rate of sales were down for the 11th consecutive year however they were up 23 basis points in the fourth quarter.
This calculation excludes retail fuel operations and Roundy's and excludes a $60 million contribution to the Kroger Company Foundation and $55 million contribution to the UFCW pension plan in last year's fourth quarter and a $30 million contribution to that same plan in this year's fourth quarter.
There were several expenses in the quarter that won't continue at the same rate in future quarters including charge-backs related to the transition of our payment systems to EMV that we expect to level out throughout 2016.
We also saw higher pension costs and healthcare costs due to an increase in the number of claims and higher healthcare cost claims that occurred during the fourth quarter.
All that said we can and will do a better job in some expense categories including shrink completing our EMV rollout and benefit costs.
In December we said that volatility and weekly fuel costs would influence our fourth quarter results.
That was true for the fourth quarter as our cents per gallon fuel margin was approximately $0.169 compared to $0.234 in the same quarter last year.
Fuel in the fourth quarter only contributed about half as much net earnings per diluted share as compared to last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year the cents per gallon fuel margin was roughly $0.174 compared to $0.19 last year.
Our fourth quarter net earnings per diluted share increased 9.6% to $0.57 compared to $0.52 during the same period last year.
This result was helped by the lower tax rate and lower LIFO expense but our strong real growth contributed to our results.
Our 2015 cash flow generation was strong allowing us to make $3.3 billion in capital investments during the year excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.
We repurchased $703 million of stock and returned $385 million to shareholders through our dividend.
Net operating working capital declined $451 million which also enhanced cash flow.
Our net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio came in at 2.08 times compared to 2.14 times during the same period last year even while investing approximately $870 million in our merger with Roundy's late in the year.
Our balance sheet is as strong as ever.
I'll provide a brief update on labor relations.
In 2016 we will negotiate agreements with UFCW for store associates in Houston Indianapolis Little Rock Nashville Portland Southern California and Fry's in Arizona.
Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages good quality affordable healthcare and retirement benefits for our associates.
Kroger's financial results continue to be pressured by rising healthcare and pension costs which some of our competitors do not face.
Kroger and the local unions which represent many of our associates have a shared objective growing Kroger's business and growing it profitably which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates.
Turning now to our 2016 guidance we expect identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel of approximately 2.5% to 3.5% for 2016 reflecting the lower inflationary environment.
For full year net earnings we expect 2016 to range from $2.19 to $2.28 per diluted share.
Where we fall within the range will be primarily driven by the actual fuel margins.
We expect margins will be at or slightly below the five-year average with continued volatility.
We expect our core business in 2016 to grow in line with its long-term net earnings per share growth rate of 8% to 11%.
Shareholder return will be further enhanced by a dividend which is expected to increase over time.
In thinking about the cadence of our quarterly results compared to our long-term 8% to 11% guidance the first quarter we would expect to be at the midpoint to high end the second quarter below that range.
And keep in mind 2015 grew 26% for earnings per share last year.
The third quarter at the midpoint and the fourth quarter at the midpoint.
We expect capital investments excluding mergers acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities to be in the $4.1 billion to $4.4 billion range for 2016.
We expect Kroger's full-year FIFO operating margin in 2016 excluding fuel to expand slightly compared to 2015 results.
Now I will turn it back to Rodney.
Thanks Mike.
2015 was an outstanding year.
We delivered on our performance targets grew market share created 9 000 new jobs and even more opportunities for our associates and we continue to expand the use of our technology to drive growth.
We look forward to continuing that momentum in 2016.
Obviously lower inflation will be a headwind to sales.
But when you look back over the past several years we've had periods of high and low inflation.
And we've shown that regardless of the environment we consistently do our job to manage through it and maintain relative pricing.
In doing so we'll continue to deliver greater value for our customers and for our shareholders.
Now we look forward to your questions.
Thank you.
And our first question will come from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research.
Hey guys thanks for taking my questions.
So I just want to dive into – good morning.
I just wanted to dive into the near-term outlook.
Mike I think you said the tonnage was just fantastic during the quarter and actually better than last year's fourth quarter.
Sequentially did you see tonnage slow? And then as you look at the cadence in the quarter it does seem like things fell off a little bit as we got to the last four weeks of the quarter.
Any thoughts there on what the current environment is? There's a lot of nervousness out there that deflation is really starting to bite and maybe the consumer – the volumes aren't quite as good.
Our volume continues to hold up very well Scott.
When you look at even coming into this year when you look at shipments case shipments out of our warehouses to replenish our stores it remains very very strong.
If you go back to the commentary I had on the meat department some of the categories as we say it's good deflation because we're getting back to retail price points where the customers can buy a lot more of that product.
And while for the time being it's a slight headwind to sales when you just look at the top line with the number of units we're selling at a good gross profit dollar rate per item we're generating significantly more gross profit dollars.
When you look at the fourth quarter overall you have to keep in mind a few things about your commentary about late in the quarter.
We had significant snow events during last year's fourth quarter and as well as the Super Bowl shifting from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
And those on top of a department like meat with the deflation certainly play a factor in what the sales percentage growth is.
But the unit growth continues to be very strong.
Okay that's perfect.
And so you didn't really notice any material change because you did come in a little bit below your guidance I think on the comp.
And I guess in your mind what changed a little bit there or maybe nothing did it just was a little bit more severe than anticipated? I think the biggest change was that we had almost no weather at all in the quarter.
Inflation ended up being a little bit lower than what we expected.
But I think that by far the biggest part would be the weather.
And basically we had no benefit of weather in the fourth quarter.
And most of that would have obviously shown up later in the quarter.
So then Rodney this is – and then I'll yield one just more longer-term type of question.
The industry fundamentals just generally things seem to be changing rapidly.
I know you guys expanded your ClickList.
But you have a lot of like I call them alternate business models springing up whether it's Green BEAN in the Midwest which is delivering to the home or something like a Blue Apron obviously the idea of click-and-collect or AmazonFresh delivering.
Where do you see the industry going and how do you see Kroger navigating that more long term? And then I'll yield and thank you for taking my questions.
Thanks Scott.
When you look at long term and if you look at several of the changes we've made over the last couple of years it is really merging with people that have expertise in some of those areas so that we could bring that within Kroger.
And what we're really working hard on and I mentioned it in my comments is trying to create it where it's a seamless experience for our customer.
By no means do I think we have arrived but what we're finding is some customers like to engage with us multiple ways and we're really striving to make sure that we have a model where we can let the customer decide how they want to engage with us versus us deciding that.
So it's an exciting time to be in the industry.
There is no doubt there's a lot of change going on and the changes that we have been making over the last couple of years we feel really good about positioning us to address where the customer is headed versus where they've been.
Thanks Scott.
The next question will come from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Okay apologies.
We have a question from Ed Kelly of Credit Suisse instead.
Yeah.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So a question for you.
I just wanted to follow up on Scott's question on inflation.
I guess Mike first of all do you have the inflation number for this quarter? I don't know if you gave that or not.
Just give me one second or whatever.
It's about 60 basis points overall but there's a lot of variability in that number.
As I said in my prepared comments the meat department was deflationary deli was deflationary seafood was deflationary.
Grocery was a little bit inflationary.
So it's a mixed bag overall.
And as Rodney said – if you look at produce it was actually inflationary.
So produce has been all over the map this year deflationary in the first two quarters about flat in the third quarter and now inflationary.
And our job is to operate the best we can given the environment we're operating in.
And I think we've done a phenomenal job of managing our way through some of the volatility in the commodities that are out there.
And in the backdrop of that pharmacy continues to have inflation although it declined throughout the year.
It ended the fourth quarter at just under 5% inflation and it started the year at 10% so it's a wide range of things that have happened throughout the year on the inflationary front.
The question I really wanted to ask about this if I look at your guidance for next year 2.5% to 3.5% IDs inflation I think in the 8-K said up 1% to 2% which is not that different I guess than what 2015 is going to average out at.
And you do have some difficult tonnage comparisons.
You had such a great year in 2015.
So I guess as we try to dissect this is the difficult comparison in tonnage also playing a role in terms of how you're thinking about 2016? And maybe as part of all that you can help us maybe understand why tonnage accelerated the way that it did last year.
A couple things.
First of all remember when we merge with somebody we immediately include that company in our identicals.
And I know there's other companies out there that don't include merged companies for the first year.
And when you look at that effect that will change the guidance by about 40 basis points to 50 basis points on identicals in terms of what our expectations are.
The other thing is – and you never know until after the fact is how does the inflation happen.
And we believe that early in the year we won't see much inflation.
We believe later in the year we'll see a little bit more inflation versus being consistent throughout the year.
And the inflation guidance is as much affecting the LIFO estimate as it is what we really think inflation is going to be if you volume weighted it throughout the year.
There's no doubt that when you cycle good numbers the cycling is a little bit tougher.
But it would be more driven by the inflation that we expect during the year and the mergers.
I don't know Mike anything you want to add to that.
No I absolutely agree with you.
You go back into some of the fresh departments like produce.
Produce inflation of almost 6% in the fourth quarter is not a good thing.
That means there was probably short supply of product and the product that was there was not that high of quality.
So you can't just – one of the things we have been trying to encourage people to do is don't look at my 60 basis points of inflation.
Try to dig down on the different components of it to understand how that can affect our business.
Okay.
Now if I could just squeeze in one more because I think it's an important one and this is for you Rodney.
Could you maybe talk about how your M&amp;A strategy is evolving? If I think about your company over the last few years obviously you've been more aggressive than you were prior.
You did Roundy's which I think is something that years ago at least from a Street perspective we would have thought was something that maybe you wouldn't want to do a turnaround in a new market.
But maybe just talk a little bit about how things are evolving and going forward really what you're looking for as opportunity.
It really wouldn't.
If you think about the comments that we make on merger opportunities over the last five or ten years everybody should assume that we look at most opportunities especially if it's in the U.S.
We're really looking for companies that bring something to us that we don't have today.
One of the things that we loved about merging with Roundy's was as everybody knows that we were looking at going into a new market.
By merging with Roundy's it allowed us to go into Chicago with a business that Mariano's has done a phenomenal job on connecting with customers and their market share is in the low teens.
And they entered that market in 2010.
So we felt like we could learn a lot plus we started out a position of strength because of the success they have had.
When you look at Wisconsin Pick 'n Save and cost has great market share across the state.
We love Wisconsin.
It's a market that we really like and we look forward to operating in it.
So it's really our partnership and synergies that we felt like we could bring to Roundy's and the strength that they have that we could improve from where everything was.
So it's a little different than a completely typical thing how we've merged with somebody.
But I wouldn't – I don't think you should read into that that our strategies have just fundamentally changed in terms of the way we approach things.
The other thing about Roundy's particularly in Wisconsin as Rodney said not only did they have the very strong market share even though it's declined the real estate sites they had were phenomenal.
And we probably would not have considered a transaction like this if they didn't have outstanding real estate sites where we know we can grow their market share back to where it once was.
Yeah.
Yeah that's a good point Mike.
There is no doubt if we didn't feel great about the real estate we would not have embarked on merging with Roundy's.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Ed.
And our next question comes from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Having technological (28:47).
Good morning.
Karen you're hard to hear.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Can you hear me? Yes barely.
Go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay sorry.
I'm in Asia.
I guess I'll be quick.
CapEx for 2016 seems way higher than I would have expected.
Can you give any color there? And I guess I was also wondering if you could give some puts and takes on how Roundy's might impact your comp for 2016 in terms of guidance? Relative to the CapEx as you know we talked about our fill-in market strategy back in October of 2012 and we had expected a steady step-up in the CapEx.
The guidance at that point in time didn't contemplate a merger with Harris Teeter and then a subsequent merger with Roundy's.
Harris Teeter had gone into a new market in the Washington D.C./Baltimore area.
We continue to fill in those markets with some very attractive sites.
Another chunk of the increase in the CapEx is allocating capital to Roundy's not only to support the plan they had in place.
There were a lot of plans they would have had that given their financial position they couldn't have executed on.
So there are dollars in there for us to go in and refresh and remodel some of their stores to show the folks in Wisconsin what they can expect going forward.
The rest of it is really we didn't start off as quickly on our fill-in strategy as we would have thought in 2012.
It took us a little longer to get projects lined up and we feel comfortable now that the pipeline of projects we have are starting to come to fruition.
And the other thing that's in there for Roundy's is probably a little bit of capital for conversions and the like on systems and so forth.
And on the identical piece I mentioned that mergers in total if you look at our guidance we gave you should assume about 40 basis points to 50 basis points as the impact from the mergers that we've done.
Inc.</span></strong> And sorry what last follow-up in terms of CapEx is $4.1 billion to $4.4 billion the new base that we should use and grow a couple hundred million off of that every year going forward? And then can you just give some update on what the pharmacy impact is on the comps in 2016? As far as the $4.1 billion to $4.4 billion we will continue to increase our CapEx and execute our fill-in strategy so long as we're seeing the performance on the stores we're opening achieve the budgeted expectations so that they become the fuel for the engine.
And from a granular standpoint I don't think I'll get into department by department expectations for ID sales.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
Thanks Karen.
And our next question comes from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to talk a little bit about some of the experiments in formats that you're doing.
Obviously you're looking at how to connect more broadly digitally with your customers but I think – and maybe I missed a little bit of what you were saying Rodney but that the Main &amp; Vine maybe just talk a little bit about what the goal is with that test and where you think that can go.
We think it's always important to be trying different approaches to connecting with customers.
As you know we've had phenomenal success in natural and organic over the last several years and we really see customers continuing to see that as important.
But with that said there's certain items where the customer still wants to buy everyday stuff.
And when you look at Main &amp; Vine what we're trying to do is to merge those two pieces but connect at a local level a little deeper than we normally would.
Inc.</span></strong> And that would be a smaller store 35 000 square feet 40 000 square feet as opposed to what you build for most new Kroger's? Yeah the store would be probably more likely in the 22 000 square foot to 30 000 square foot type store.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just the other – and I'm assuming that Main &amp; Vine is not aimed at the lowest income customer.
I know you've been testing Ruler.
What are your thoughts about that format or whatever you need to do to extend the test? Aldi is going to be expanding I'm not sure how significant it will be but customer feedback is actually surprisingly good about Aldi.
So maybe you could just talk about your dealing with that lower end customer.
Yes.
If you look at Main &amp; Vine and Ruler they are definitely targeted to a different customer so I would agree with your comment completely.
On Ruler we're still trying to understand the economics of the model to get to where it actually performs at an ROIC that we're happy with.
We continue to make progress but we do not think we've figured it out.
We have a tremendous amount of respect for Aldi and Lidl as well.
We've spent as much time in Lidl stores as we have Aldi stores over the years and Lidl has done a great job when you look at a lot of the European countries.
So we have a lot of respect for those formats.
There are certain customers that we believe likes to shop in that environment.
Everything that we can tell it's not all customers.
It is a customer segment and what we're trying to do is to serve that segment.
And if you look at Main &amp; Vine it's the same thing.
There's a customer segment that we don't think anybody out there is really serving and we're trying to identify a model that will serve that customer.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just as my follow-up question on Main &amp; Vine do those stores need to be located where the customer is lower middle income or is it more that it's near a fair amount of population that isn't very affluent? If you look at Main &amp; Vine it's very very early.
And we only have one store.
And it's only been open a few weeks.
From customer demographics we would be looking more at a customer that would be overly influenced on speed and convenience for dinner and a little bit more bent for natural and organic.
So that would be the customer that we would be looking for and it would be driven by – more by that than economics.
Inc.</span></strong> Great that's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Meredith.
And I think this is your last call.
We really appreciate you following us over the years and best wishes on a beautiful retirement.
And thank you for the partnership with Kroger and thank you for the friendship.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much Rodney.
That's very very sweet of you.
Thanks.
Take care Meredith.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And the next question will come from Robby Ohmes of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey thanks guys.
I'm going to cheat and sneak in two quick ones.
Just another one on inflation you guys commented on the protein deflation and then produce being inflationary this quarter.
Can you give us any color on just what's playing out in center of store overall from an inflation or deflationary standpoint any thoughts looking through 2016 here? And maybe even tied into that just competition any update there? Walmart has been making efforts in produce in the Supercenters.
Neighborhood Market actually had a very good comp still in the most recent quarter.
Just anything competitively maybe even specifically versus Walmart you can comment on? Thanks.
When you look at the grocery category from an inflation or deflation standpoint in the fourth quarter it was slightly inflationary.
I would remind you that for us we categorize milk in the dairy case overall in the grocery category.
If you were to take the effect of lower cost and lower retails of milk out the grocery department would have been closer to 1% inflation.
And relative to the competitive environment we pay attention to every competitor and what they're doing.
As Rodney said we get into a lot of our competitor stores.
I think a lot of this when we travel around whether it's domestically or internationally we probably often get into as many or more competitor stores as our own stores to keep an eye on what everybody else is trying to do.
But what we really wake up every day trying to do is to make sure we're focused on our customers and understand what our customers want and try to deliver more on that every day.
Certainly in the background is what the competitive landscape is.
But with the knowledge and understanding we have of what drives our customers that is our primary focus.
One other thing I would just add and this is a Kroger comment.
We've invested a lot in our fresh departments especially this year.
And we've invested a lot in labor to improve the experience for our customers.
I know our customers are giving us good feedback on what we've done.
I think every competitor is really working hard to get better.
And the customer is telling us the changes we're making they like what we do.
Thanks.
And just on the grocery inflation ex-milk anything we should think about for 2016 that would make it different than what you guys saw in 2015? I guess I would answer that as who knows.
You could have a weather disruption or any number of items that happen during the year.
You could have a bumper crop of corn and wheat or a horrible crop of corn and wheat and it changes the dynamics of not only the fresh departments but the grocery categories.
I think when you look at our own ability or inability to predict where LIFO may wind up when you really predict an inflation on one day at the end of the year and the amount of units you will have it's just so volatile.
Our job is we try to understand what's going on on a regular basis and make sure we're delivering on our customers' wants and needs.
Thanks Robby.
Great thank you.
The next question is from Rupesh Parikh of Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
So first I just want to start off.
Mike I know you talked a lot about and you gave us color on some of the expense pressures that you saw during Q4 and it sounds like many of them could be transitory.
I just wanted to get a sense of what type of expense pressures do you expect in 2016 on your business.
There are always expense pressures out there.
And as I said in the prepared comments there are some that we would expect to mitigate and go away over time most likely by the end of the first quarter things like the charge-backs from the EMV conversion.
We can and will and need to do a better job on shrink control.
We know that opportunity is out there and is staring us in the face.
We have some processes and tools that we're testing today to make us more successful in that category.
We also understand that as I said in our labor negotiations pension and healthcare costs there are some that we face that some of our non-union competitors don't face to the same extent.
And we have to make sure that's front and center as we negotiate the list of contracts I spoke of that are up this year.
And when you look at the year overall we would expect to be able to continue to manage where our costs are going down.
And we have a ton of process changes that we're working on to take costs out of the business.
I absolutely agree Rodney.
Our goal is year-over-year to be able to continue to reduce our total operating costs.
As a percent of sales without fuel.
Right.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
And then my follow-up question.
Is it possible to get the quarter-to-date trends? If you look at quarter to date on identicals it would be a little bit below the bottom of the range.
That's consistent with where we thought we would be at this point.
The weather – the cycling of weather continues to be – because we just basically have had no weather benefits.
But if you look at where we are it's consistent with where we thought we would be so far.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you for all the color.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
So just curious if you guys can talk to the impact of the capital program.
I guess specifically this year on the P&amp;L and then also cash flow meaning will all the incremental footage does that weigh on ex-fuel EBIT margin a bit? Is this the peak year for that? And then how does this impact utilization of free cash particularly how you think about buyback? I don't think this will be the peak year but it will be getting close to the peak year.
We're going to – when you talk about a 100 major store projects for us we haven't done that many major projects in quite a while.
They are typically a drag for a while before they start generating positive EBITDA.
So I don't think we're there yet.
It certainly – when we build our model we certainly contemplate the effect of our capital program as well as making sure that we continue to get the contribution from those stores that are a year or two old today that should be throwing off some significant EBITDA to help us manage through the process.
Yeah.
But it would be very close.
And how about the cash flow impact? Say that again? Cash flow.
Just the cash flow impact.
I think if you look at our free cash flow generation over the last several years I think we're in a good spot relative to being able to continue to execute with the expanded CapEx a strong dividend and we expect it to grow over time as well as executing a buyback strategy.
We would expect to do all three of those.
Yeah.
When you look at on a cash flow we have also made great progress on improving working capital which is funding part of it as well.
And then maybe for you Rodney more strategically when you think about the non-food side of the Marketplace how would you – how do you think that will evolve? How would you like that to evolve? And is it possible you can get broad distribution of more brands that maybe you haven't been able to get to date? Well we would certainly expect over time that there would be more of the brands – bigger brands would sell to us.
When those companies understand that we're going to treat their brand and respect their brand and support it just like they do.
And we partner with a ton of great branded companies out there.
And what we believe we can do over time is to show them that we're going to take care and grow and support their brand just like they do.
If you look at the non-food side of the Marketplace store we think it will continue to evolve over time.
So it's one of those things where what we do today is different than what we did two years ago what customers tell us is they like what we do today better than we did two years ago.
But we still think there's still – it will never stop evolving.
But as you know when you look at the grocery side it doesn't stop evolving either.
And customers give us good feedback on that side of the store.
Because it's things they pick up because they find a great value for what they find.
It's something at a very reasonable price.
Okay thank you.
Thanks John.
And the next question will come from Vincent Sinisi of Morgan Stanley.
Hey great.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a bit further on Roundy's.
Can you guys just give us a little bit more color in terms of now you're a month and a half or so in? What have you found to be kind of let's take the main conventional banners for a second in terms of the amount of work that needs to be done? Is it more kind of assortment? What percentage may need more true remodels or anything like that? And then maybe on Mariano's anything worth noting that needs to be done versus maybe just looking towards future expansion? Yeah.
If you look at Mariano's that brand is incredibly strong and it's really supporting the brand that's been built and continuing to build out that.
When you look at Wisconsin it really reminds me of where Kroger was several years ago.
And it's really embarking on the same journey that we have been over the last several years in terms of all the items that you talked about.
The two things – I guess three things.
One there's a lot of learnings that we can bring back into Kroger from Mariano's if you look at some of the things that we're really working hard with Roundy's in total is bringing the synergies of $110 billion company to procurement and using 84.51° to help with insights there that we've obviously had a long successful journey on.
I don't know Mike anything else you would want to add? No we spent a lot of time in the Wisconsin market before we decided to go ahead with the merger.
I don't think there's probably not a store in Wisconsin that some member of our senior management team hasn't been in and many of the stores we would have been in multiple times all over the state.
We understood – we had a good understanding of what investments we're going to need to make in infrastructure what improvements we may need to make from potential resets or incremental hours in stores to better serve customers.
So we factored in the things that before we could actually sit down across the table of what we thought we needed to do to bring them back to the market share they once had.
We really feel good about the people.
And as you know Roundy's had a tremendous amount of debt which didn't give them the financial flexibility to do some of the things they would have liked to have done.
And we really – the associates on Roundy's they care so much about the customers.
Senior leadership really does want to support the stores on improving the experience for customers.
So that's one area where I thought we would feel good about but I actually feel even better than what we thought going in.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
And maybe just one more quick one here.
Just going back to Main &amp; Vine and appreciate the color with Meredith's question there.
But just to kind of help us picture until the folks on this phone can get into the store itself but I know it's early but can you just give us a little bit more sense for is there going be a lot of Simple Truth private label offering kind of maybe a little bit more around the initial mix that you're testing at this point or – and anything else that would be helpful.
Probably the biggest thing that would be easy is if you look at the fresh departments the amount of space dedicated to fresh departments would be very high.
The other thing that we would do is really try to make sure we are doing all we can to support local food suppliers.
So local coffee local cheeses local bakeries those items.
If you look at the grocery side that would really be – it would be Simple Truth in the store but there would also be a lot of natural and organic.
I don't – and I guess the other department that would be a little bit expanded would be on the health and wellness and cosmetics and some of those things and even supporting the local community.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you guys.
Mike just made another point to me that we used our 84.51° insights to set what to carry in the store and how to set the store.
And it's a store where we have completely used the data to determine that.
Great thank you.
Thanks Vincent.
The next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I was a bit surprised to hear that the quarter to date ID number was light or lighter than I think some people hoped for because I would have thought that the Super Bowl shift would have helped a bit.
And I would have thought just based on your guidance from 1Q to be better that maybe the top line would have been better there.
So maybe those things are true but just a lack of favorable weather was bigger than we thought.
I'm just trying to get some sense of the sizing of the impact of I guess football and weather on the quarter and also sort of an explanation and maybe I just missed it of how the comp sales are going to be lower but the EPS are going to be higher at the ends of your ranges.
When you look at the quarter to date it is – Super Bowl selling was great but almost every week or really every day when we get ID sales it seems there's some geography that was up against weather last year and no weather this year.
That's going to flesh itself out.
Those things happen occasionally.
It's our job to manage through it.
Tonnage has remained strong.
We feel good about where we're trending on those pieces.
I don't think it's an issue from our tonnage or our growth or our customers coming in the store.
We saw great trends in the fourth quarter when we worked up against weather when our total households that came to our stores increased the visits per households in total increased and units per basket in the fourth quarter increased.
And those kinds of things over time that's the momentum you want to see going into a new year.
So we'll work our way through that.
Relative to your question on IDs not where they were but EPS up I would go back to my comment on the meat department where you just can't assume that if ID sales aren't as strong as they were that's just a percentage calculation.
What you have to understand is what's the cost of that product what can I sell it for and how many gross profit dollars do I make off of that.
In many instances like meat because of the pickup in the volume at lower retails you wind up generating significantly more gross profit dollars and we would expect that to continue to play out in different categories throughout the year.
Think about the effect I said of milk on the top line.
Milk generated good profit in the year for us.
Headwind to report at ID sales absolutely.
But overall the generation of profitability in milk was strong for the year.
Yeah.
And remember the other comment I made earlier is we would expect inflation to be lower in the early part of the year and higher later part of the year.
But when you look at inflation overall we have operated our business in low inflation and high inflation and we have been successful in both environments.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up on M&amp;A.
I think you said that your – and you've said this previously you're always looking for something whether it's capabilities or geography that you don't have today.
I think one of the concerns out there is that Kroger may be more amenable to deals that would be considered I guess surprising to the Street than they used to be.
Because looking for something you don't have today kind of leaves you open to almost anything.
You could go in to a new format a new country.
So I'm just curious for investors out there listening are there limitations to what you would buy even if it's something that you would consider new in terms of what you don't have now? I'll go back to what I said before.
You shouldn't expect the way we would look at merging any different today than over the last several years.
And as you mentioned in your comments you should assume that we would look at most things.
And I added a second ago in the U.S.
So you shouldn't think that all of a sudden you're going to see us in some place that we have no knowledge or no synergies.
On the capability we're really looking at things that are in our core business.
So we're in the food business and we're in the health and wellness business.
Those are the areas where we're going be focused on how do we get a deeper and better connection with our customers.
So you shouldn't assume something that's out in left field.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ken.
Next question comes from Zack Fadem of Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Just to stick with Roundy's for a minute how are you thinking about the timeline of just integration and investments throughout fiscal 2016? And have you started to roll out things like price investments and store improvements yet? And given the volatile deflationary environment have you considered delaying price investments in certain categories? We have a timeline developed for how we're going to work with the Roundy's team particularly in Wisconsin.
I'm not going to get into what that timeline is but you should assume it's not just a 2016 effort.
It would be very similar to how we've done overall investments at Kroger and it will be multifaceted over a fairly long time horizon.
I don't think there's anything in our minds that would cause us to delay what we think we need to do at Roundy's because of the current operating environment.
As Rodney said we're as bullish as we were six months ago when we were looking at this.
It's only been two months.
The deal closed December 18 so it's only been two and a half months.
You certainly didn't disrupt our team or their team during the holiday selling season.
So it was really after the first of the year where we first started sitting down one-on-one with them and developing plans and strategies.
And we feel very good about what our plans are going forward.
And we've done a ton of work with research and working with the Roundy's team to try to understand the customer and understand the customer wants and needs.
And the plan will actually be starting to execute against our understanding of the customer wants and needs.
And some of it will be test and some of it will be to go do it.
Great.
And just as a follow-up big picture you've implemented a ton of productivity initiatives over the years in your stores shorter checkouts labor efficiencies.
I'm curious where you think there's additional room for improvement in your stores.
You mentioned shrink as one of them.
Is there anything new planned for fiscal 2016 to drive better efficiency particularly with so many remodels and expansion projects planned? The short answer is yes.
And I'm trying to figure out a way to help you get insight without giving away something that our competitors wouldn't know about.
There are several projects that we have underway.
Technology and process change would be a big part of those.
And if you look at the things for 2016 that are being executed against and we're actually starting to work on some of the things that we will do in 2017 as well.
Great I really appreciate the color.
Thanks Zack.
Thanks and we have time for one more question.
Okay.
And that final question will come from Kelly Bania of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to go back to the guidance and the inflation outlook for a second.
If I'm hearing you correctly so the ID guidance 2.5% to 3.5% includes a 40 to 50 basis point drag from Roundy's.
So if you take that out you're in that 3% to 4% range which is just what you guided to last year.
And also you also guided to a 1% to 2% inflation outlook last year.
So am I right to think that it's really the same but that maybe the products within the categories are a little bit different and the pace may be accelerating throughout the year instead of decelerating throughout the year? Or what's really different I guess? You did a better job of explaining what we were saying.
Really that's what we would think is early in the year we're cycling a little the inflation higher last year lower this year.
We would expect as we get later in the year that we would be a little higher inflation if you think about the dairy comment that Mike made.
We'll soon start cycling lower dairy prices in some of those things.
So your comment is absolutely correct on all those pieces.
And then just in terms of the drag from Roundy's this year is that something that we should think about for maybe a couple of years? Or what's a reasonable timeframe to expect that to maybe not get in line with the rest of the base but to be less of a drag? If you just look at our own models we would think it would take two to three years before we'd get to where it would look more like a typical Kroger division.
If you look at our merger model that's the type of the timeframe that we used.
And we wouldn't see it any different today than I don't know Mike any other insight that you would want to add? I agree with you.
We aren't going to go too fast and we aren't going to go too slow.
And if we were to have a bias towards one or the other it would be a little bit slower than a little bit too fast because what we have seen in the broad spectrum of M&amp;A out there is when folks try to go a little too fast they're usually not as successful long term.
Got it.
And I just wanted to maybe end with just a question on Simple Truth.
I think you said it was growing at an incredible rate.
I think it's been in the double-digit range in the past.
Just what are you seeing there? What are you expecting from Simple Truth in 2016? I think you mentioned some new categories that have been launched in the recent year.
How are you thinking about even more categories or what are you expecting really from that in 2016? It has been incredibly strong as I mentioned.
It was $1.5 billion brand for us last year.
And if you recall three years ago was when we launched the brand.
We're finding very good early results.
We're really looking at it more as a lifestyle brand versus narrower just food.
And the additional categories we have added it's been very good initial customer connection.
So we really see continued growth opportunity for the brand.
And probably even stronger than what we would have thought initially so it's exciting.
Great thank you.
Thanks Kelly.
Before we end today's call I would like to share some additional thoughts with our associates listening in today.
As you know a lot of our associates listen into the call each quarter.
Our strong results in 2015 are the result of your hard work and dedication to our customers each other and the communities that we serve.
I want to thank each of you for what you do every day to make a difference for our customers.
Sometimes even simple things make someone's day brighter.
Like when Kroger associates in Tennessee worked with a community partner to deliver flowers to seniors or when our Fry's team celebrated a special customer's 101st birthday at a Tucson store just awesome.
Our customers appreciate your thoughtfulness.
Keep up the great work.
Across the country we continue to listen to our associates' feedback.
In addition to solid pay healthcare pension and other benefits you have told us that work-life balance is important too.
That's why we are introducing advance notice work schedules for associates working in our stores.
This means associates will have their work schedule further in advance every time.
This is designed to help you plan and manage other important things such as school family and other events and responsibilities.
Fourteen of our retail divisions have introduced this or are doing so now.
And several others will have launched by the end of the first quarter.
We worked closely with our union locals to introduce this.
So far feedback from our associates have been very positive.
As always thank you again for your continued commitment to Kroger and our customers.
That completes today's call.
Thanks for joining.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.