Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Martina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Lowenfeld Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lowenfeld.
Thank you Martina.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2013 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our first quarter financial results and 2013 outlook.
Then Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
We're off to a good start in 2013 with improved operating performance despite lower global industry production.
Sales in the first quarter were $3.9 billion up 8% from 1 year ago reflecting primarily the benefit of new business in the Guilford acquisition.
Core operating earnings increased from 1 year ago to $201 million reflecting strong performance in our electrical business.
In the first quarter our Electrical segment achieved record quarterly sales and earnings as the business continues to benefit from market share gains and cost benefits from our improved footprint.
During the quarter we took steps to improve our financial flexibility.
We also announced significant increases to our share repurchase and dividend programs.
In total we returned $216 million to our shareholders in the first quarter.
Today we entered into an agreement to repurchase $800 million of our stock under an accelerated share repurchase program.
This transaction will be funded with available cash and we will retire approximately 12 million shares within the next week.
The transaction is expected to be completed within 11 months.
During the quarter we also completed the divestiture of our equity interest in the interior provider International Automotive Components for approximately $50 million.
We had no active role in the management of this entity and we considered it noncore.
Slide 5 highlights the key elements of our strategy.
We are following a balanced approach of investing in our business maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet and returning excess cash to our shareholders.
We have the product expertise global reach competitive footprint and financial flexibility to profitably grow our business.
We're also well positioned for significant industry trends towards global platforms increased electrical content and direct component sourcing.
We plan to continue to invest in our business to improve our market position and returns.
Our disciplined approach to capital investment is based on ROIC.
We continue to pursue acquisitions that will complement our present product offerings facilitate further diversification of our sales and increase our component capabilities.
We plan to maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet while at the same time continuing to return excess cash to shareholders on a consistent basis.
Slide 6 highlights some of our recent accomplishments.
We have increased sales and earnings per share for each of the last 3 years.
Sales growth over the last 3 years has outpaced the industry and we expect this trend to continue given our strong sales backlog.
We continue to invest to grow and improve the competitiveness of our core businesses both organically and with acquisitions.
The Guilford acquisition has been successfully integrated into Lear and we're experiencing growth opportunities and cost synergies.
The margin in this business is tracking higher than our overall seat margins.
As I mentioned earlier performance in electrical business continues to improve and we expect this positive momentum to continue to drive increased sales and profitability.
Slide 7 highlights improvements we have made to our capital structure as well as initiatives to return cash to shareholders.
At the end of the first quarter we had $1.6 billion of cash and no significant debt maturities until 2018.
We were able to improve our financial flexibility during the quarter by increasing our revolving credit line to $1 billion.
This line was unused at the end of the quarter and doesn't mature until 2018.
We are committed to maintaining investment-grade credit metrics.
Our customers consider financial strength in addition to quality competitive cost structure and customer service as criteria for program sourcing.
We believe the key contributor to our sales growth in recent years has been our strong financial position.
In early 2011 we initiated a share repurchase and dividend program to consistently return cash to shareholders.
On Slide 8 I'll provide an update on how we think about liquidity which we define as a combination of cash and available borrowing capacity on our revolving line of credit.
We prefer to maintain approximately $1.5 billion in liquidity.
This level of liquidity provides us with cash to manage inter-quarter peaks and troughs as well as compensate for cash that's not readily accessible for daily use.
This also provides us with ample cash to react quickly to potential opportunities to strengthen and grow our core businesses.
Finally this level of liquidity provides a cushion for industry risks which we believe is prudent given the historical volatility in the automotive industry.
Slide 9 provides a summary of cash repatriation actions.
Since initiating our dividend in the first quarter of 2011 we've made double-digit increases in each of the last 2 years.
We believe the consistent return of excess cash to shareholders through a quarterly dividend is a key element of delivering shareholder value.
Our share repurchase program gives us the ability to return excess cash to shareholders as well.
Since our initial $400 million 3-year program was announced in 2011 we increased the size and reduced the time frame in which we will repurchase shares several times.
Our total share repurchase authorization including purchases to date is $2.25 billion.
Slide 10 provides more detail on our share repurchase program.
During the first quarter we purchased 3.7 million shares of stock for a total of $200 million.
Since we began to repurchase stock in early 2011 we have repurchased 15.2 million shares of stock for a total of $702 million.
This represents approximately 14% of the shares outstanding when the program began.
As of the end of the first quarter over $1.4 billion remains under the share repurchase authorization.
This reflects approximately 1/3 of our market capitalization to present prices.
Under the accelerated share repurchase program announced today we expect to purchase $800 million of stock within 11 months.
Following the conclusion of the ASR program Lear will begin to repurchase shares under the remaining $750 million authorization potentially utilizing a variety of methods including open-market purchases accelerated share repurchase programs and structure repurchase transactions.
As always share repurchases are subject to prevailing financial market and industry condition.
I'll turn over to Jeff who will take you through our first quarter financial results in more detail and provide full year outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 12 shows global vehicle production for the first quarter.
In the first quarter global vehicle production was 20.4 million units down 1% from 2012.
In Europe business conditions remain weak and industry production was down 8% in the quarter.
Production in North America was up 1%.
Market conditions were strong in emerging markets with industry production up 12% in China and 11% in Brazil.
Slide 13 shows our financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
As previously mentioned sales were up 8% to $3.9 billion with all regions showing year-over-year increases.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange Lear's sales in the quarter were up 9%.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $174 million down the $13 million from 1 year ago primarily reflecting higher restructuring costs and special items.
Interest expense was $17 million up $4 million primarily reflecting the new $500 million bond issued in January.
Other expense was $11 million up $10 million primarily reflecting a loss of $4 million related to the redemption of 10% of our 2018 and 2020 bonds and unfavorable foreign exchange movements.
In the first quarter of 2012 we also recognized the gain of $2 million related to insurance recovery.
Slide 14 shows the impact of non-operating items on our first quarter results.
During the first quarter we incurred $18 million of restructuring costs primarily related to various actions in Europe.
Other special items of $8 million reflect losses and incremental costs related to the previously reported fire at one of our European facilities as well as cost related to the proxy contest.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $201 million up $6 million from 2012.
The increase in earnings reflects the benefit of new business and the Guilford acquisition partially offset by lower production in Europe.
Other expense in the first quarter includes special items of $3.6 million reflecting the cost associated with the redemption of 10% of both our 2018 and 2020 bonds.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the first quarter was $124 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.30.
Excluding the impact of our higher tax rate diluted earnings per share would have been up 4%.
Slide 15 shows our first quarter adjusted margins for both segments as well as for the total company.
In Seating adjusted margins were 5.6% down 110 basis points from 1 year ago but consistent with our full year guidance.
The year-over-year margin reduction was driven by several factors.
While we remain solidly profitable in Europe we experienced volume reductions on many of our key platforms.
Downward conversion on the sales decrease in Europe approached 20% due to the difficulty of reducing labor and structural costs in the short term.
South America remained unprofitable in the quarter primarily reflecting higher costs associated with new facilities and program launches.
A third factor impacting Seating margins is the turnover of a significant portion of our programs which typically launch with a lower margin profile.
Each of these factors was responsible for roughly 1/3 of the decrease in the margins in the quarter.
Our margin outlook for Seating this year remains in the mid-5% range and we expect Seating margins will improve as we enter 2014.
In Electrical we reported record sales and earnings in the first quarter.
Adjusted margins of 8.7% were up 220 basis points from 1 year ago.
Our Electrical segment benefited from strong sales growth and operating efficiencies.
Our Electrical segment results were slightly better-than-expected in the quarter and we forecast full year segment margins to be in the mid-8% range.
Slide 16 provides a summary of free cash flow.
Free cash flow was the use of $28 million in the quarter primarily reflecting increased working capital related to normal seasonality.
Capital expenditures were $92 million in the quarter.
Slide 18 highlights the key assumptions in our 2013 outlook.
Our outlook reflects updated production assumptions in our major markets.
Compared to our prior outlook global production is up 1% at 81.5 million units and our financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.30 per euro.
Slide 19 summarizes our 2013 financial outlook which is unchanged from our prior guidance.
For 2013 Lear expects net sales of $15 billion to $15.5 billion.
Core operating earnings are forecasted in the range of $725 million to $775 million.
Interest expense in 2013 is expected to be about $80 million up from last year reflecting primarily the impact of the new $500 million bond.
Tax expense is estimated to be $195 million to $210 million resulting in an effective tax rate of approximately 30%.
Given our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20% for the next several years.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted at $420 million to $455 million.
Capital expenditures are forecasted at approximately $450 million and free cash flow for 2013 is forecasted at $275 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
Great job.
Thanks Jeff.
2013 started strongly with increased sales and core operating earnings.
Despite challenging industry conditions in Europe we remain solidly profitable in that region.
We continue to follow a balanced strategy of investing in our business maintaining a strong and flexible financial position and returning excess cash to our shareholders.
We are allocating more capital for return to shareholders and other automotive suppliers.
In addition our total return to shareholders since our financial restructurings better than the supplier peer average and more than double the S&amp;P 500.
With that we'd be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question on revenue up 8% very strong relative to global production.
I was hoping you could give us a little bit more detail about what's driving and this has become a pattern now continued revenue outperformance at Lear was it the greater proportion of backlog launches or mix give us a little bit more detail there.
It was driven mainly by backlog.
We've also had strong performance in some of our key platforms in North America specifically in the electrical business Itay.
Research Division</strong> So product mix okay.
And then on the full year outlook you had a very strong quarter here.
It looks like the EPMS margins are running above your initial plan for the year.
I mean how are you feeling in terms of the range of Lear revenue and earnings for the year? Are you feeling a little bit better about the higher end or are you kind of still taking that wide range for the full year? No I think if the production numbers hold as we outlined in the earnings decks we'll be pressing the higher end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And just quickly lastly JCI mentioned that they had a supplier -- a distressed supplier issue in their quarter.
Are you guys seeing any pressure in your supply chain perhaps in Europe or even North America? Well there's always pressure in the supply chain.
I don't see it any higher or lower than it's been in the last couple of years but that's just the -- these days seem to be a normal course of doing business normal cost of doing business in the auto supply.
Research Division</strong> So nothing new? Okay.
Nothing new.
It's pretty consistent.
It's been pretty consistent the last several years.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First could you just elaborate on this repurchase plan? You're committing to buying the stock I presume you're using derivatives somehow here to basically retire the shares even before you're actually acquiring them? No the way it will work is effectively next week we'll fund $800 million with the impact from a shares perspective that we would retire at the same time next week 80% of the shares at a strike price at the closing that occurred yesterday at $53.95.
So what that means is next week we'll retire roughly 12 million shares or about 12% of the outstanding share count.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the share count will decline next quarter even prior to the actual shares being bought in the open market? Right.
And the program -- Rod the program will take about -- will be completed within 11 months.
And the 12 million shares represents roughly about 80% of the implied value at the strike price yesterday.
So if you run the table through the 11 months at the true-up point assuming the share price remains constant we would ultimately retire approximately 16% of the shares as a result of the ASR.
Key point is that the stock price remains the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your first quarter segment EBIT obviously was up and probably the most difficult production comparison quarter of the year at least in Europe that's currently I think most people's expectations.
Your guidance implies that second quarter to the fourth quarter segment EBIT declines if we use the range that you gave us.
Are there a few events that we should be taking into account that would lead the comparisons to be a little bit more challenging over the next few quarters? No I think it's mainly it's still pretty early in the year Rod.
And there's still a lot of uncertainty in the production environment and mix of platforms that will be produced mainly in Europe where it's difficult to take cost out for a short-term downturn.
But overall there's nothing really unusual in the cadence or the seasonality of the business.
We expect it to be pretty constant.
Electrical in the 8.5% range Seating in the 5.5% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you happen to have the backlog contribution to Seating and Electronics this quarter? Yes they usually -- backlog usually runs at around 10% of the sales on an incremental basis: true backlog net backlog.
The backlog in Seating was relatively flat this quarter meaning it's very modest.
Electrical was about 130-ish for Q1.
Seating's backlog will pick up in the back half of the year and Electrical would be fairly constant through the year.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a -- first question on sort of this accelerated return of capital to shareholders Matt.
I mean obviously you're not one to just cave to outside pressure.
So I'm assuming it's a lot more than just outside pressure that's driving you to do this.
I'm just curious what's changing in your thinking about the company and the cash flow and maybe the acquisition environment out there? Or is it just Vanneste is a much more aggressive CFO than you used to be? I'm just trying to understand really what's changing in the thought process here? He is definitely a better CFO than I was -- but I think it's a multitude of things John.
One is we started working on our capital structure at the end of last year and we were able to increase our line of credit -- revolving line of credit which gave us some additional flexibility -- financial flexibility.
We executed a very successful bond offering.
We did make acquisitions and we pursued acquisitions but we -- we don't see anything major on the horizon that would be an alternative use of our capital structure at this point.
And we completed last year fairly successfully as far as free cash flow generation.
And looking into this year we're still confident that even with a challenge in Europe that we're still pretty confident in our cash flow generation for 2013.
You take all these factors into consideration as well as input from all our shareholders and we thought this was the way to create -- the best way to create value.
So I just think it's a situation where we kind of balanced all the different inputs and felt this was the best approach.
And we still believe we have the financial flexibility to continue to invest in this business and do the type of acquisitions we need to do to solidify our base.
Research Division</strong> That's incredibly helpful.
And just a second question raw mats have been coming down last year and they seem to be fading pretty hard consistently through the year-to-date period.
Just curious when you might see any benefit from that if you're still passing through the swings to the automakers just trying to understand if you're ever going to see any big benefit from that? From what John? I missed the beginning part of your question.
Research Division</strong> From raw material.
I mean the deflation of raw material cost.
I see.
They're actually fairly constantly with what we averaged last year.
We have seen a little bit of benefit in copper that's included in here but it's been very very modest at this point.
I think just like in times of inflation in times of deflation of raw material costs it enters into the kind of annual price discussions with the customers maybe not as a direct offset but as part of your annual productivity negotiations.
So I really don't see it as providing at this point a major tailwind.
Just like when they had some inflation in prior years we didn't see it as a major headwind.
Research Division</strong> So most of that upside and downside you think is still being passed on to the automakers? Yes in the case of copper it gets passed on in a direct indexing agreement with a quarter lag.
As it relates to steel John it kind of gets entered into the annual productivity discussions with the customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly the K2XX -- or the GMT900 to that K2XX program is reasonably meaningful for you guys here in North America particularly on Seating and Electronics I would assume.
What are you seeing on that launch? And could we see a big pickup in margins in the second half of this year and maybe into early '14 as that product -- program really ramps up? More production is better than less.
That is a key program because of the amount of content and just the sheer volume of units that they produce.
When a new program rolls on it usually comes out a little bit lower margin just because of the -- just the efficiencies that you gain over doing it in years and the engineering changes that come through with it.
Right now I don't see a major change happening.
If there was a change as far as unit volumes on either those platforms that would be helpful.
But right now I think it's pretty steady state through the year John.
Your next question comes from the line of Adi Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Seating margins.
Jeff you mentioned 3 factors.
One is decrementals in Europe one is the launch cost in U.S.
and then some issues in South America.
Now I understand that the launch cost in North America would continue for a while.
But can you talk about a little bit about when you see Europe decrementals to start fading a little bit? And when can we move past South American issues? Well I think with respect to South America first we did in Seating specifically although launch costs in total were relatively flat we did have higher launch costs in the quarter in South America.
What we see in South America in Seating for the rest of the year is that those launch costs would subside and a return to some level of profitability between now and the end of the year.
I think with Europe I think as you look at the forecast -- production forecast for Europe for the quarter and then the remainder of the year it's still choppy.
For the full year they're still anticipating that production will be down 3%.
Our top platforms our mix there is at least forecasted now to be slightly worse than that.
So I think there's still some choppiness in Europe albeit from a full year standpoint and for the first quarter we still remain solidly profitable in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
The other question I had was on the Guilford Mills acquisition you guys mentioned that it's running at above-average Seating margins.
Are you guys satisfied at where those levels are or you think there's further scope of improvement in the margins in that business? I'm happy with the margins in that business.
I think the improvement that we could make is further sales synergy by using their design capabilities to help us with our industry-leading cut and sew capabilities in our footprint.
I think the real synergies will be sales synergies as opposed to margin expansion.
We're happy with the performance of that segment overall.
It's been a great acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Matt your first quarter result was pretty strong compared to our expectation at least but you held guidance and change.
Is that you being conservative at the back half of the year? Or do you think there are certain things to keep an eye on that might be volatile in the second half of the year? I think the main thing we have to keep an eye on is the production environment Ravi specifically in Europe while there's still a level of uncertainty on the key car lines and what the customer plans are.
And it's a little bit harder segment to keep an eye on the leading indicators for production inventory and production levels by car line and sales rates by car line.
So from our standpoint if production holds the way that we outlined in the deck then we would probably be towards the higher end of the earning guidance range that we gave this morning.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And the follow-up on the K2XX question.
We're reading some media reports that say that the SUV part of the program may be delayed to 2014.
Are you seeing anything similar as well? Yes I think -- I don't know if it's delayed as much as that's been the normal expectation that that part of the K2XX would be a '14 launch the Pickup starting earlier but -- yes that's consistent with what we hear.
Research Division</strong> No SUV launch this year at all? They may be doing a product line fill towards the fourth quarter Ravi but it's relatively modest.
The main thing is to get the Pickups out and get those running.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just finally you have some fairly sizable Japanese competitors.
With the depreciation of the yen are you already seeing or do you expect to see any pressure on pricing in the Electrical segment? No not really.
Because I don't think any of them really produce in Japan.
I don't really think that the pressure is going to be driven by the currency changes.
I think more than anything it's going to be by your cost competitiveness overall which is typically driven in that segment by your footprint.
We think we have one of the best if not the best footprint in that segment and I think that's been a key contributor to the fast pace that we've grown that business and the size of our sales backlog.
So I really don't see that as a major concern.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Amy Carroll on for Ryan Brinkman.
I just had a quick question since a lot of mine have been answered.
Given the speed and the amount that you're doing your buybacks are you guys concerned about like your credit ratings is that even a consideration? And then secondly could you just remind us what synergies you have between the 2 businesses? And does it help now that you're Electrical business is a little bit bigger going to bids with -- for Seating? Yes 2 very good questions.
We're very -- we have great relations with the credit agencies and we're in constant communication with them.
We don't believe this action in any way would damage our standing with our ratings and it's our goal to maintain investment-grade metrics if you will.
And I think even with this action we're still well within those boundaries that have been established for the segment.
So I really don't see it as a major major issue.
And before we did anything like this we were in communication with them to make sure they understood the rationale and were comfortable with that.
The synergies between the 2 businesses besides management flexibility and I would say regional administration commercial relationships in many cases Electrical will lead the sales of Seating because of the interest in the high-powered segment and some of the unique technologies that we have in that segment.
That helps us on the Seating side and vice versa.
In many cases we have relationships with customers on the seat side which help us sell electrical.
So from our standpoint the businesses are somewhat related even though the product lines are very distinct.
And there are synergies that are shared both administratively commercially and in regional management teams.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want a clarification.
I'm not sure if I just misunderstood this earlier.
So with the -- this new accelerated share repurchase program does that mean you're locked in over the next year to do repurchases? I mean or is there some sort of price mechanism that if it hits a certain price you have the ability to kind of pull some of that cash back? No we are -- the way this particular ASR program was structured we are locked in at $800 million.
The eventual number of shares that we eventually buyback or retire will be based on what's called the volume weighted average price over the course of that time frame.
But we are locked in at that $800 million regardless of where the price of the stock goes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just want to clarify the EPMS margins did the guidance move up from I thought it used to be around 8% to now mid-8% so it's a bit higher or is that a...
Yes we said 8% to 8.5%.
Right now we're about -- we're comfortable with the mid-8% range.
Research Division</strong> And any reason why the no shift in the full guidance because of that? No I think it's early in the year Colin and there's still some production uncertainties.
We're comfortable with the performance of both businesses both businesses are doing well operationally.
But right now I would tell you that we're just -- we want we believe it's a little bit early and there's still a lot of production uncertainties especially in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- the backlog for the full year for EPMS is $450 million but your sales were up $200 million in a pretty tough environment.
Is that -- do you think that backlog is coming in stronger in terms of sales than you had expected? Or you also mentioned key platforms or is that...
Yes I mean right now we see the backlog around $900 million and Electrical is about a little bit under 5 just under $500 million of it so it's coming in a little bit stronger we have the good fortune of being on a couple good running programs in that segment.
So we think backlog is maybe a little bit hotter than we originally anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But a lot of that Q1 is actually just favorable product mix? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly any color on the size of the launch costs and how they should move through the year? Obviously the K2XX is a big factor.
Did that hit you at all this quarter and -- or is it more of a Q2 issue? Well I think with respect to the launch cost if you look the full year launch cost are anticipated to be significantly down year-over-year especially in South America.
In terms of the cadence of launch cost I think they'll be pretty ratable throughout the year but I think they'll ramp-up to some extent based on the launch of programs like the K2XX.
Research Division</strong> Ramp-up through the year? Yes.
But still be well below last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly going back to the EPMS I think on that long-term margin target you historically said you need about $4 billion in sales to sort of get that scale and get it to that 8% -- call it 8% to 8.5% range.
Given that your -- if you annualize the first quarter and you hit that number it doesn't seem like scale is really the issue.
Is it investment for future growth that's really going to hold the margins back there? No I think from our standpoint we historically had spoken about scale needing to get into that $3.5 billion and $4 billion which we've now achieved.
And we still have a fairly healthy backlog in that segment so we think the growth and the market penetration will continue as well as the content add in these products as more and more electrical features are added to the vehicle.
To us margins are more a function of the investment required to get those sales.
And from this standpoint at these margin rates we believe we can return in excess of our cost of capital in a meaningful way and create value to that regard.
So when we look at margins it's more as an indicator of the investment required.
Wire harnesses are typically lower investment than electrical components and so when you balance the 2 out the mix of the sales we believe this is a fair margin.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it fair to say more the growth is in the electoral component side? So there might could be a little bit of a mix benefit in the future as well? No I wouldn't say that.
I'd say it's been pretty consistent in both wiring and electrical components.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more on the K2XX launch.
I'm actually curious if you guys are seeing any inefficiencies on the existing GMT900 business given that you sort of have to support both lines for a little bit here? Maybe a little bit -- maybe a little bit not a whole lot.
Whenever you're launching a new product in a facility that's continuing to produce the predecessor there's always some doubling up of cost and a little bit of inefficiency on the shop floor.
But overall it's not I would think incredibly meaningful.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last quick one on the South America what -- is that a little bit behind schedule that --being that it was still unprofitable in this quarter or was it always sort of a back half of the year where you expect greater -- to be able to be profitable in that region? It's I would tell you it's slightly disappointing.
We wanted to be a little bit further along than where we are but we always anticipated that it would be a -- it would take to the back half of the year to show profitability in that segment and we're kind of there.
But as always nothing seems to happen as fast as you would like.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter we talked a bit about one of the drivers in Electrical being going to the core which I interpret as distribution systems terminals and connectors maybe junction boxes.
A did that continue? And b are there potentially some non-core products take body electronics lighting or audio that you are either a deemphasizing or b could consider perhaps divesting to refocus on the kind of core products? No I really don't think there's anything in that segment that's noncore Brian.
We really have worked extremely hard over the last several years to divest some of the noncore product lines that we had whether it was our HomeLink system our TPMS our switches any products like that that were not really core to Electrical Distribution.
What remains has synergies with moving signals through a vehicle whether it's our remote keyless entry which moves the signal with a key fob and has a receiver that's consistent with the junction box.
Even our audio business that we do have has many synergies both from a manufacturing and a design and a component standpoint with the junction boxes the amplifier business.
So what I would tell you is that we're winning business in all of those subsegments it’s all core and there's a natural kind of design software and manufacturing synergies.
So no it's all pretty core at this point.
Research Division</strong> And kind of back to the earlier question.
I think one question I'm hearing from some of the kind of investor types is do these 3 businesses -- really seem to have very different characteristics now? Seating is a business where there's a lot of operational pressures which you're managing.
Whereas Electrical just seems to be great growth great margin.
Is that something when you kind of think about your valuation are there ways of maybe getting better credit for that Electrical growth than having it tied to a large Seating business? Both products actually have a lot of synergies and similarities.
It just happens that what is dissimilar at this point was -- is that margins are expanding Electrical and we've had a period of decreasing margins in Seating which we expect to get back on track with the -- back to more historical-type margins here shortly.
But from a consistency standpoint both obviously are automotive both are core both share certain regional teams.
And in many cases the processes are fairly similar whether it's the assembly of a seat or assembly of a wire harness.
And so from our standpoint we think the 2 strengthen one another whether it's customer relationships or the ability to share resources in regions or equality or some of the administrative functions.
So from our standpoint we think they're both strategic they both help one another and they're both core.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Amaturo from Buckingham Research.
A couple of questions.
I think there's still a bit of confusion about this AR -- ASR program.
Jeff how is this going to get reflected on the balance sheet? Meaning are you going to reflect the $800 million reduction to cash by the end of the second quarter? And then if you could just review whether or not the share count will actually get reduced by the 12 million shares by the end of the second quarter or some pro rata portion given that it's May -- April? Yes the accounting entry that we'll make when we fund next week will be credit cash $800 million debit common stock for the retirement of 80% so that'd be $640 million.
And the remaining $160 million will be in additional paid-in capital.
So we will effectively retire 12 million shares at that point inside the second quarter.
And then throughout the life of the ASR agreement once we get to a final settlement at the end of 11 months approximately to the extent that we bought more or less shares than was called out there'd be a further adjustment of allocated capital further reducing the share count.
So it will be based ultimately on the average weighted cost of the share price over the period of time that will finally determine what the share count decrease will be and we would estimate right now that to be 15% to 16% at the end of it of which 12% reduction in shares or 12 million shares would be reduced in the second quarter.
Okay that makes sense.
The second I guess another question is I mean how should we think about the repurchase activity? Should we assume it to be fairly systematic over the next 11 months? I'm mean the actual purchasing of the stock? Well it's kind of out of our hands of that point.
It's in -- it rests in the hands of Citibank which is the bank that we engaged to do this.
And they have their own formula that is largely going to be based on the volatility of the stock at any given day.
But it's completely out of our hands and in their hands in terms of when and how much they buy on a daily basis.
So they have total discretion? Yes.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Stover from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of the questions have been answered.
You have $700 million in the outstanding buyback after this accelerated program is done I guess we should assume that this would be done outside the 11-month period? Correct.
It's $750 million Matt and it will be done over the 2 years subsequent to the completion of the ASR which we believe will be done within 11 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Deem from Key.
Research Division</strong> Anthony in for Brett Hoselton today.
So you've highlighted European uncertainty as the primary reason for not increasing your guidance.
Can you elaborate on that uncertainty for one what are you currently seeing in customer production schedules over there? It seems like several suppliers have noted stability within the region at least sequentially first quarter to second quarter.
So -- and as it relates to Lear's customer mix do you agree that the production environment is stable for one? And then second if you do believe that what sort of risk factors are you contemplating in the back half for Europe? Do you think inventory might be an issue or do you see further downside risk to registrations? Any insight there will be helpful.
Well there's literally when you're doing a projection of this magnitude for a company of our size there's thousands of inputs that come in.
Probably the biggest one obviously is production -- in production on the platforms that you have content on.
In Europe while the production has been somewhat stable I wouldn't call it stable somewhat stable there's still a level of uncertainty with the macro environment that's in Europe regarding austerity programs and cutbacks just uncertainty on sales.
And the other issue in Europe is it's very hard to see leading macro indicators on what production levels will be compared to what we see in North America which has sales and inventory of our car lines.
It's not as easy to see those leading indicators in Europe.
So from our standpoint if the production holds in Europe we'd see ourselves at the higher end of the range.
And right now we're just one quarter in and we're taking a wait and see look at it.
Your final question comes from the line of Adam Brooks from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question.
If we look right now at ease of profitability can you talk about it compared to North America and Europe? And if we look out 3 to 5 years outside of North America can you rank how profitable South America Asia and Europe are? I would tell you that Asia profitability is consistent with the target margins for both segments and we've been able to grow our business there rapidly and profitably and consistent with the margins overall.
We would expect at some point that South America which has historically run at target margins until the last -- I would say last 12 to 18 months would be the same on a longer-term outlook.
Europe historically in a stable environment ran a little bit below target margins in Seating.
I think we ran around 4% is what we talked about in the past.
In Electrical we've actually run at the target margins due to the level of vertical integration in that segment and footprint.
So that's how we would look at it longer-term.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then one quick one do you have an updated target leverage ratio at this point? It's pretty consistent with what we said in the past.
I mean we'd like to run at 1 to 1.5.
I mean if the right acquisition or investment opportunity came available we would consider going higher than that.
But we've historically said that we'd like to maintain investment-grade credit metrics.
And from our standpoint that's a gross leverage of about 1.5.
With that that kind of ends the questions for the call and the folks that remain are probably Lear employees.
I want to take this opportunity to first and foremost thank Jeff and the finance team for their excellent job in preparing for this call.
And I want to thank all of you for your hard work and dedication which drove these numbers this quarter.
So thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sara and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Lowenfeld you may begin.
Thank you Sara.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
Review materials for our earnings call were filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and they posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Bob Rossiter CEO and President; and Matt Simoncini Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the last slide of the presentation material and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #2 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Bob Rossiter will review highlights from the first quarter.
Next Matt Simoncini will cover our first quarter financial results and our 2011 full-year financial outlook then Bob Rossiter will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #3 and I'll hand it over to Bob.
Thank you Ed and good morning everybody.
And I'm thankful that so many us could break away from the royal wedding and attend the call this morning.
It's all that's on TV and everybody's talking about but I think we've got some good things to say.
The year started off pretty good for Lear and we've had an outstanding first quarter.
Obviously with the events in the Middle East and the tragic events in Japan there's great concern.
But let's focus on what we've accomplished.
Earnings have improved.
Operating performance has improved as well.
We've got strong sales growth in both of our product segments.
Seating has achieved target margins for the fourth consecutive quarter and Electrical Power Management continues to improve its margins.
We generated positive cash flow in the quarter strengthened our credit metrics and we ended the quarter with $1.7 billion in cash.
As you're aware we initiated cash dividend in the first quarter authorized $400 million in share repurchase and completed 2-for-1 stock split.
We continue to win new business and our backlog is growing in the areas we targeted and it's well balanced by our customers and by our products.
If you move to Slide 4 we'll talk briefly about Japan.
So far Lear has experienced limited direct impact.
We don't have any production currently in Japan and our sales to Japan are about 1.6 of Lear's total -- 1.6% that is.
We didn't have any major damage to any of our facilities.
They were all technical but we did have -- we had no employees that were injured.
We do expect some impacts in shortages resulting from the problems in Japan.
It will probably happen in the second quarter with the bulk that will happen in the second quarter.
But IHS believes that it should end by mid third quarter and we believe we can make it up by the end of the year.
So overall we feel pretty comfortable.
If you move to Slide 5.
You can see the balance in our products from 2005 to 2010 as we've moved into the emerging markets.
Growth in Compact business so now we have a better balance between Mid Size SUV and Crossover and Compact.
And we're still well-positioned in the other products.
So I'd like to turn it over now to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Bob.
Please turn to Slide #7.
This slide provides financial highlights for the first quarter.
Global industry production was up 5% reflecting growth in most of the world's major markets partially offset by a 32% decline in Japan where production was disrupted following the earthquake and tsunami.
Lear sales were up 20% to $3.5 billion and core operating earnings were $205 million up 48% from a year ago.
This represents the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year earnings improvement.
The increase in profitability from a year ago reflects improved industry production new business and the benefit of cost saving partially offset by customer pricing and higher costs for product development launches and commodities.
We generated $84 million of free cash flow during the first quarter.
Our reported earnings per share was $1.44 up 136% from a year ago.
The impact of the disaster in Japan on our financial results was modest in the first quarter.
In the next few slides I'll cover our first quarter results and our outlook in more detail.
Slide #8 shows vehicle production in key automotive markets for the first quarter.
Global vehicle production was 18.6 million units up 5% from a year ago.
Slide #9 provides our financial scorecard through the first quarter of 2011.
As previously mentioned sales were up 20% to $3.5 billion.
Pretax income before interest and other was $199 million up $79 million from a year ago.
And net income was $156 million up $90 million from the prior year.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 3.3% compared with 4.4% a year ago.
The lower SG&amp;A rate reflects the increase in sales and lower cost.
Interest expense was $3 million down $16 million primarily reflecting a refund of interest related to a favorable court ruling of an indirect tax matter as well as lower debt.
Other income was $7 million compared with an expense of $21 million a year ago.
In the first quarter last year we wrote off $12 million in deferred financing fees resulting from the refinancing of our term debt.
The year-over-year improvement was also driven by the positive impact of certain foreign exchange items and increased equity earnings in our nonconsolidated joint ventures.
Depreciation and amortization was $62 million an increase of $3 million from a year ago.
Slide #10 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our first quarter results.
Our reported pretax income before interest and other was $199 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring costs and special items related to the emergence equity grants we have core operating earnings of $205 million an increase of $67 million or 48% compared with a year ago.
Other special items in the first quarter include $3.9 million in other income for an adjustment related to the acquisition of additional equity in an existing joint venture.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the first quarter was $158 million and adjusted earnings per share was $1.46.
Please turn to Slide #11 for a summary of our results by business segment.
In Seating adjusted margins in the first quarter improved to 7.7% up 90 basis points from a year ago.
The margin improvement reflects higher global vehicle production the addition of new business and the benefit of cost improvements which more than offset price reductions higher launch and development costs related to the backlog and higher commodity cost.
Slide 12 summarizes the operating performance in our Electrical segment.
Financial results in this segment continue to improve.
Adjusted margins in the first quarter improved to 5.7% up 70 basis points from a year ago.
The margin improvement reflects higher global vehicle production and the benefit of cost reductions which more than offset higher launch and development costs related to the backlog and higher commodity costs.
We also continue to experience certain operating inefficiencies and other premium costs associated with the industry-wide shortage of microprocessors.
Please turn to Slide #13.
We generated $84 million of free cash flow in the first quarter up from $4 million a year ago reflecting primarily the increase in earnings.
Capital expenditures of $71 million were $36 million higher than a year ago reflecting spending on new programs as well as increased investments in component capabilities in the emerging markets.
Slide #14 provides more detail regarding the shareholder actions that we announced during the first quarter.
On February 17 we announced a $400 million share repurchase authorization.
During the quarter we spent $27 million repurchasing 529 000 shares of stock at an average price of $52 per share.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital prevailing financial and market conditions and other certain factors.
On March 16 we paid a cash dividend of $0.25 per share on a pre-split basis or approximately $13 million.
On March 17 we completed a 2-for-1 stock split.
Total cash returned to shareholders during the first quarter was $40 million.
Please turn to Slide #15 for an updated status of our share count.
At the end of the first quarter we had approximately 105 million shares of common stock outstanding.
The number of shares outstanding reflects the completion of the stock split on March 17.
Approximately 900 000 warrants remain outstanding which are exercisable into 1.8 million shares of common stock.
The warrants expire at November 9 2014.
Assuming exercise of all the warrants and the vesting of the management shares Lear's total shares outstanding will be $109 million.
Please turn to Slide 17 for a view of the major assumptions of our 2011 outlook.
We continue to monitor and assess the impact on our business of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Last month's disaster has begun to impact our customer production schedules and has led to shortages of certain components.
We assume that production loss outside of Japan as a result of the disaster will be recouped before year end and have elected to hold our production outlook flat in all markets other than Japan.
Consequently our present financial outlook is based on a forecast of global vehicle production of 73 million units down 1% from our prior outlook reflecting an 18% reduction in Japan.
Our updated financial outlook is based on an assumption of a 2011 average euro of $1.40 which is up 5% from the prior outlook.
The 2 commodities that influence our business the most are steel and copper.
Steel costs have increased since our prior outlook and we are now forecasting steel at about $0.50 per pound up 25% from the prior outlook and from last year.
As a reminder most of our steel buy is through purchase components so the impact of raw material price increases is somewhat mitigated.
Copper prices have remained volatile and our updated 2011 outlook assumes copper prices of $4.30 per pound a 1% from our prior outlook and 25% from last year.
Roughly 80% of the copper we purchased is used in our wire harnesses where we have index pricing agreements with our customers.
Slide 18 details our present 2011 financial outlook.
We expect that indirect impacts related to the disaster in Japan could be significant during the second quarter.
However we do not anticipate a significant impact for the full year.
We expect that most loss production outside of Japan will be covered within the calendar year.
In addition there are certain cost inefficiencies related to short-term volatility and production schedules that could increase our cost in the near term.
We expect 2011 sales in the range of $13 billion to $13.4 billion up $400 million from our prior outlook reflecting primarily a change in the euro assumption.
We are reaffirming our 2011 outlook for core operating earnings at $700 million to $740 million.
We are increasing our 2011 outlook for capital expenditures to $300 million up $50 million from our prior outlook primarily reflecting increased spending to expand our component capabilities in emerging markets.
Depreciation and amortization is forecasted at $260 million up $10 million from our prior outlook reflecting the increase in capital expenditures.
We are holding our free cash flow forecast of approximately $400 million.
We have also reduced our interest expense by $10 million to $45 million primarily reflecting the benefit of the interest refund in the first quarter that was discussed at an earlier slide.
Net other expense remained about breakeven.
Adjusted tax expense is estimated to be approximately $125 million.
Our cash taxes for 2011 should be approximately $90 million.
Adjusted earnings per share is forecast at $4.70 to $5.05 per share.
Now I'll turn it back to Bob for some closing comments.
Thank you Matt.
2011 is off to a strong start and our financial performance is improving.
First quarter sales were up 20% versus 2010.
The margin improvement in both business segments were generating strong cash flow finished the quarter with $1.7 billion in cash and our debt is just under $700 million.
We commenced the program to return cash to our shareholders spending $40 million on cash dividends and share repurchase.
We completed 2-for-1 share stock split.
We're maintaining our 2011 financial outlook even in the face of the issues in Japan.
We feel anything that's lost in the second quarter can be made up by year end.
And we're continuing to win new business in the markets we want to and in the product areas that we feel most confident.
With that I'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
A couple of things.
First would you mind providing us the impact in dollars from raw materials what you saw in the quarter and what your new assumption is in terms of dollar impact for the year? And then also what is the kind of magnitude of higher cost that you're kind of baking into your guidance related to this Japan's supplier disruptions? Let me see if I can get you there Rod.
In the quarter from the commodity impacts the commodity that impacts us the most obviously were steel and copper.
But there's also on a smaller scale impact on petroleum-based chemical that we use in our foam as well as the hide market which saw some increases.
Overall from a commodity standpoint in the quarter we probably faced headwinds in the $15 million to $20 million range on a year-over-year basis Rod.
On the full year we expect that to be about $50 million on a year-over-year basis covering those 3 major commodities.
Again most of the exposure in steel is in purchase components so we may also see some pressure on our key saves.
As far as the inefficiencies let's say or additional cost associated with the choppiness that we expect in the production schedules both on the way down but also on the overtime that may be required in order to recoup the production that will impact our conversion rates.
And what I mean by that is normally we'll guide to incremental or short-term volume decreases in production in that 15% to 20% range.
We could see those margins impacted on the way down probably before seeing us towards the higher end of that conversion range.
And then on the way back up because of the use of overtime in order to make up production we could see the margin being more towards the lower end of the conversion rates.
Okay.
But these would presumably be temporary factors I would think.
Is there any way for us to kind of think about -- as we're thinking forward beyond this year what is the impact that you're bearing this year that probably wouldn't recur because of these inefficiencies in overtime and that kind of stuff that you baked into your guidance? It's really -- at this point Rod it's really hard to kind of put a bookend around it in that level of specificity.
Because at this point really no one really knows and I don't think even the car manufacturers have fully flushed out their plans which car lines are going to go down or which car lines are going to halt production for a period of time while they get caught up on their components.
For us each car line has its own kind of financial G&amp;A and the margin is driven by as much as anything the content that the vehicle has and how much of the content we will provide.
And the margin conversion is also going to be impacted on the manner in which they take a production down the manner in which they put the production back in.
If it's done with overtime obviously that's a premium cost.
It's going to impact us.
So I'd be very hesitant to give you a bookend on what the conversion is and more importantly what it means into next year's number.
Okay.
And just lastly I noticed you're still using 12.5 million units production for North America CSM is at 13.1 million.
Is there any reason why you're there aside from just conservatism? And also just anything you can share on your mix expectations or assumptions that are built into your guidance for this year.
It just seems to us in this period of uncertainty on what the component shortages are going to be both direct and indirect that it was a little bit -- we want to take a more cautious view than what CSM is using at a production and possibly stand back and hold our guidance firm.
And we thought from a comparison standpoint that would be a little bit easier for people to analyze what we're projecting.
From an mix standpoint the mix is pretty consistent with what we said before a little bit stronger in North America and in Europe but fairly consistent Rod with what we saw before and what we were guiding to before.
So we're cautiously optimistic that the sales rates have held.
And from that standpoint we don't see that the Japan crisis is impacting longer-term demand for the products.
And in time as long as the demand is there the car companies are doing an excellent job of figuring out solutions for the components that are tight and they will figure out where to make the cars that they're selling.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
You actually gave the percent 1.6% of sales in Japan.
I mean how much globally is the Japanese automakers around the world of the indirect impact of that disruption? I don't know to be honest with you.
From our standpoint our sales directly into Japan are about $200 million.
I don't know what their impact is.
You mean the Japanese industry or Lear's impact to the Japanese? Like your Japanese automaker exposure around the world like who apply to them in North America? It's roughly 10% of what we do.
We've got a good book of business with Nissan in North America and in Europe in Toyota with their joint venture in the Czech Republic.
So it would be about 10% of our sales.
Okay.
And then in terms of the microprocessor risk I mean where does that really lie? That's in your wire harnesses or is that in [indiscernible] electronics? We have Ray Scott here.
He's the President of our Electrical Power Management business and he can answer that question.
That's why we brought him today.
I'll answer that particular question.
The microprocessor issue obviously has been an issue we've been dealing with the industry has been dealing with not just automotive.
They've been outside of automotive for well over a year.
Obviously it's being compounded with the Japanese crisis and I will say this our customers are doing a great job of communicating and working in an open forum for us to find solutions.
From an allocation standpoint or replacement standpoint even designing around situations.
So we are working diligently around-the-clock.
We have a crisis management team in place and we'll continue to monitor and work closely with our customers.
The whole products I understand is wire harness or...
It's all electronics.
The microprocessor basically is stored as a software and is the smarts of the electronic boxes.
Okay.
And then in terms of -- I thought -- you've had several quarters now of over 7% of margins in Seating.
But is it fair to assume that's in the range of something above 7% or is there reason going forward that that should [indiscernible] from them.
I think longer-term we're in the 7.5% type range of the product.
It will really ultimately depend on the mix of the business.
And what I mean by that the level of vertical integration mechanisms and possibly foam.
Really from our standpoint the greater the investment required for that vertical integration will drive the margin requirements a little bit higher so we could see it moving towards the 7.5% to 8% type range.
But right now with the mix of business that we have and the level of vertical integration it's 7.5% about the run rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Maybe as a brief follow up to Rod's question.
You said that $50 million is the material tip that on a net basis is discounted into your current outlook.
What was the net impact that was discounted into the outlook of when you originally provided guidance? It was a little bit less than that because we're seeing pressure coming in.
Copperheads remained volatile and fairly consistent at a higher range.
But we are in the $35 million $40 million range at the end of the first quarter or at the end of the year when we gave the guidance.
Inc.</strong> SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales down to 3.3% in the quarter which is terrific.
Is that -- are we nearing the point of which that starts to level off or do you see that continuing to improve as we progress through the year? No I think we are going to run it at 3.5% type range.
As we continue to control our cost in the mature markets we're also spending to develop the emerging market and the infrastructure in the emerging markets.
We're continuing to make investments there not only in capital but in our teams as we grow our capability there.
We're also continuing to win new business and new business comes with a requirement to develop it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And very last one I mean you addressed this I think to a larger degree.
I just want to make sure I really flushed it out.
When I look at the full year guidance when they backed out what you did in 1Q and then I compare that to where consensus is right now you're guiding about 10% below where consensus is for the rest of the year.
Any other color on that other than just conservatism out of the Japan situation? Well it really ties back out to the production assumptions and the uncertainty associated with the second quarter.
From our standpoint the businesses are performing well on a steady-state type production number as evidenced by the margins that both business segments posted.
That being said it really comes down to the overall production the car lines that are produced how the production is made.
Is it made in a steady-state in constant-type release situation or is it brought in and out on a short-term chop with overtime and on the way back.
So really from our standpoint really if you look at the consensus and the amount of production that's out there being used by others in the space whether it's IHS or some of the other people that are really starting to be pretty consistently ahead of the production assumptions that we've used for the last 3 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm just wondering if you can expand a little bit more on the increase in CapEx going from $250 million to $300 million is a reasonable step.
And I'm just wondering is that have anything to do with the potential for an increase in quoting activity or new business running coming online that you weren't expecting before? Just trying to get a better idea of what the increase is for.
Well we've continued to win new business during the first quarter.
Yearly though the capital goes in place a little bit later than like when you win the business.
So what I would tell you is really the capital increase is consistent with what we've been talking about on prior calls and consistent with the use of our financial power so to speak our liquidity and our cash position.
While we're looking to continue to expand in the emerging markets our component capabilities is an area where we're very very focused.
And the majority if not the entire amount of the increase really reflects the type of footprint expenditures that we're making in places like China Northern Africa Eastern Europe and South America and India.
And then a second question you alluded to the potential in seeing of getting a little bit more vertically integrated and we've seen one of your big competitors make some acquisitions along that line.
I was just wondering if there are any acquisitions that you could see out there to move forward on that vertical integration on the Seating side? I mean we're continuing to look at certain niche acquisitions that would help us maybe expedite our vertical integration or diversity or even access to additional customers.
So I need to know what would help us improve our footprint help us expedite the diversification of our sales either by customer or regionally.
Yes we could.
We don't think there's a major acquisition in the cards in order to do that but there could be some niche acquisitions on the horizon.
And then just lastly we've seen from other suppliers that there's been some pressure from launches or the ramp up in launches in the industry on margins.
And you guys really just aren't seeing that.
All else equal are you getting a little bit of pressure on margins from these launches? And is the base business just doing that much better than what it even appears based on the numbers that we're looking at? That's a good question.
Let me kind of explain it this way John.
We have part of the year-over-year impact at Lear Corporation.
It was a step up of about $20 million to $25 million in launch cost off of our base last year of $60 million.
We've also seen a step up in program development which goes hand-in-hand obviously with the launch cost at the facilities.
But the backlog will come in and part of the conversion on the incremental revenues is the backlog and backlog typically comes on at around 10%.
So a little bit lower than a normal benefit you're going to see just from volume.
One of the things that both divisions Ray Lou and their teams exceeding rush and distribution to is an excellent job of launching products.
That being said it is a risk and it's an additional inefficiency in the operations when we launch them.
In the quarter we probably have launch costs totaling about $25 million and we would expect those costs to continue during the full year maybe a little bit more front-end loaded.
But all in all a step up in those costs this year versus last.
And the next is just the last question on Slide 5 Bob you really did a good job of laying out the sort of the diversification of the model lines and segments that you guys have made.
I was just wondering as you look at this kind of a change in the potential changes going forward maybe a smaller vehicle mix out there I mean how should we think about margins and returns on these smaller vehicles? I mean obviously there might be a little bit less content.
I'd like to hear your thoughts on that.
And what kind of impact could that have on margins and returns? Would they still be the same as what we see on the larger vehicles? Well they won't be the exact same because it's driven by content.
One way we're trying to offset the lack of content on smaller vehicles is to have more vertical integration.
And so we think overall the margins.
although will be slightly less than our traditional margins but still very good margins for the business.
So I don't see any real change as we expand in the emerging markets.
And I do want to add -- just let me add something on the acquisitions so we make sure that we get this clear.
We've looked at a number of acquisitions out there and walked away from a lot of them for a very simple reason.
We want to put new assets in emerging markets and we want them efficient.
We want new equipment new systems new processes and that's why we've elected to expand internally as opposed to going outside and acquiring companies.
And where we see a specific niche that will help us advance our product offering and we'll look at it.
We have several of those that we're working on right now.
But overall I'd rather put new efficient assets in rather than spend my money on restructuring.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays Capital.
I want to drill down on simple aspects of the strong revenue growth for the quarter.
So 3 sets of questions.
One kind of a housekeeping one how much was currency? And second kind of strategically what's driving the organic growth here to what extent is it backlogged to what extent is it getting yourself in the phase of growth in some of the emerging markets and to what extent is it customer programs and established markets doing perhaps better than just your averages? Actually you just answered it.
Well you can quantify it for us maybe starting with currency.
Let me try to give you some color on the year-over-year revenue lock.
Our currency number was relatively modest.
It's a real run-up and the currency happened subsequent to the quarter end fiscal quarter end.
Now we're starting to see the euro very very strong in the $1.45 to $1.50 range over the last several weeks.
But the majority of the run-up happened after we closed the books on the quarter.
The currency impact is only about $20 million to $25 million.
Our backlog in the quarter was roughly $190 million and the vast majority of the rest of it and there's really a lot of different inputs to what changes revenue other than just industry and backlog and currency.
There's also adjustments on price-related to value engineering and what have you.
But that being said the vast majority of the rest of it was the volume increases.
From our standpoint we saw North America production in the quarter at a little over 3.3 million units versus I don't know 2.9 million in the first quarter of 2010.
And in Europe we're estimating -- the way we manage Europe we look at Europe at roughly 4.7 million units.
And that was up a couple 100 000 units.
So what I would tell you is you just kind of have to do the math based off of the production side that we showed you Brian.
But it seems like if we do that you're still pacing the production plus backlog increase or is it just the remaining backlog? How much was -- are you on platforms that you think are gaining market share? Yes we've got some pretty interesting index that's launched and come out and have done really well.
And we're on some really key platforms.
You've got a pretty good mix.
I mean some of the backlog -- we're launching the new Explorer and that seems to be a real winner.
We're on a new Fiat 500 and that looks like it's going to have some success.
And from our mix of product as well we're on some very diverse group of products which Bob mentioned on Slide 5.
Everything from the Ford Focus the Fiat Punto the 3 series in Europe the 900 in North America.
So we're pretty balanced and I think what you're seeing is that in these results.
Right.
Particularly if you look at Europe you're up 21%.
Current production was only up 4%.
Unless all your $125 million backlog hits there and implies you're on.
And maybe it's the programs you mentioned some attractive fast growth programs.
We've got a nice mix and a pretty balanced mix of products in Europe across all vehicle platforms and well represented in the luxury segment which has shown some very good strength.
But we've also well represented in the entry-level vehicles A B and C platforms.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso from Crédit Suisse.
I just wanted to clarify a point from earlier in the call just to make sure that I've got this right.
Your sales to Japanese customers you said it's about 1.6% in Japan 10% overall.
So that's something around 8.5% to Japanese vehicles that are produced outside of Japan.
Do I have that right? Yes thereabouts it's about right.
Okay.
And then on a materials front you mentioned it's $15 million to $20 million in the first quarter but only $50 million for the year.
Is there a reason that it's more front loaded? Is it a function of the comparisons that are getting easier as the year goes on? Or why only $50 million relative to $15 million to $20 million in the first quarter? Well we had an inflationary period in 2010 on copper end and a little bit in steel as well.
So the comps part of this was baked in the first quarter.
Copper costs last year were lower than when we finished the year.
And then you mentioned on the copper you do have indexing on a lot of that.
Is there any lag? Is that baked into the $50 million? Yes it's typically done on a quarter lag and it is baked in.
It sometimes provide some chop in the quarter.
So you finished the quarter and then you work through the price changes with your customer.
Okay.
Last question any update on your stake in IAC or your plans with regard to that stake? Well it's the same.
It's not a core asset for us.
We believe that the current ownership there and the management of that will be successful.
And they're seeing improvements in their business as the industry continues to rebound.
It's got a good book of products and we're confident in their success but it's not a core asset for us.
Okay.
So not a core asset meaning if you found the right deal you would sell it? You got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Aditya Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Well I wanted to go back to the question on microprocessors and microcontrollers.
What have you guys been hearing in terms of how much of the industry is ready to manage the shortfall from ultimate sourcing or overtime in the plants that are running? I will turn that over to Ray Scott our President of the Electrical Division.
Could you repeat the question again? I'm just curious to know what you guys have been hearing in terms of where the industry stands from a rebound in supply either by overtime or via alternate sourcing? Well I mentioned earlier obviously the microprocessor situation it was a serious situation prior to the Japan crisis.
And what's happened since then is obviously our customers have been doing an outstanding job of redesigning alternative and/or replacement parts or alternative designs to design around particular components or reallocating particular parts and working in collaboration with our customers.
We're obviously working around the clock to satisfy their production needs.
In addition to that we're working closely with our suppliers obviously as they're going through this very tough situation.
In respect to overtime and the continuation of the situation there's a lot of clarity that needs to be that needs to take place with wafers and other components that are supplied to the microprocessors.
So we're working through them.
It's a tough situation but like I said earlier our customers are doing a great job of being creative and flexible in communicating their needs.
And I see this situation going on through June and prior to the rest of the year.
And that's some of the experiences and issues that we're dealing with here as a company.
Great.
My second question was on your increased investment and increased CapEx plan as you kind of plan for more vertical integration in the emerging markets.
I'm just curious is this something that will probably end this year or going forward as well you will continue to focus more and more on vertical integration across geographies.
Let me answer this.
Basically we don't want to make every component 100%.
But we do want to have the ability to make all components which we do today.
So we're looking at having enough balance between what we've purchased and what we manufacture so that we have flexibility in times when industry sales drop or when industry sales go up.
So I guess just looking for that right balance and also looking for where we want to expand our component capability at.
And obviously the emerging markets India China and eastern countries of Europe are very attractive as is South America and Southern Mexico.
So that's kind of the strategy overall.
So can you kind of quantify like this is the level of work integration [Audio Gap] and in those regions right now and this is where you wanted to go? Right.
Let me frame it up from a financial perspective.
Historically we've run in the range of 1.5% to 2% of sales as capital expenditure really driven by the cadence of the backlog on whether or not it would be at 1.5% versus 2% of the sales on a spend standpoint.
To Bob's point we are going to continue to look for opportunities to grow organically.
We think that provides better returns and in many cases the acquisitions that are out there and I think it's put a value for our customers and better value from our investors.
From a return standpoint we see over the next several years using our financial wherewithal to invest in Lear organically and move that sales number or that investment number up about 2% to 2.5% range as a percentage of sales over the next several years.
And then going back to the more normalized percent to 1.5% to 2% range.
But with vertical integration I think it really comes down to the ability not to provide value but not necessarily to make everything.
Trim we have competitive advantage in our seat cover business and we're pretty well vertically integrated and in a low cost footprint everywhere in the world.
Metals we still have capabilities there and the capability to continue to expand.
We don't want to make everything like Bob said.
Our foam in certain cases makes total sense for us to make foam.
We're a little bit more vertically integrated in North America than we are in Europe and Asia.
That's a huge opportunity for us and we will continue to look to expand in there.
But to Bob's point we don't really plan on making everything it doesn't make sense for us to do that.
But the vertical integration returns has been very very good.
More importantly it provides quality products to our customer and it's a way of us controlling our cost and controlling the quality to our end-customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Himanshu Patel from JPMorgan.
Just a couple of questions.
The $50 million commodity hit obviously that's a little bit higher than what you thought before but you're not changing your guidance.
Can you just talk us through a little bit on the game plan on how to deal with the commodity inflation this year and next year? Are you generally thinking that this is going to be offset with internal cost savings? Or is there sort of an implicit expectation that you're going to be able to get a lot of this back from the OE? There's been a lot of talk about this in the past and Bob addressed it on numerous calls where we're cooperative with our customer and our suppliers to address the higher costs if the entire supply chain basis when commodities increased whether it's a customer or our suppliers it's a higher cost where all of us observe.
And what we try to do is look for consolidation opportunities to get cost out of the supply chain to work with our customers to address it through commercial negotiations as well as they recognize that it's a higher cost in the cost model where we settle on pricing every year.
The costs are higher this year but there are literally thousands of different inputs that go into making a projection.
[audio gap] Japan sales are down.
Mix is a little bit stronger.
Plant performance is a little bit better and you try to balance all of these different inputs Himanshu and come out and at this point with the higher commodities we're confident that we can cover them.
I'm hesitant to say how the impact will be in 2012 at this point in time.
I appreciate the guidance for this year.
It may have had a lot of other moving parts outside of commodities.
But I guess just conceptually Matt you've got one big competitor out there who's been pretty vocal in claiming that they've got pretty strong commodity protection language contractually written into their contracts.
And I think you've always had to view that you don't necessarily have it but you may not necessarily need it either because you can kind of get a lot of that done through your own negotiations.
I'm just curious is that kind of the view that you still have where at the end of the day you don't really think one supplier is going to be treated dramatically differently on commodities versus another? Well I'm going to tell you if they're getting paid for their commodities they would be the only ones in the industry that are getting it.
But if they are I compliment them.
But in our case I also believe that our margins are better than most people in our business which would suggest that we're doing pretty well somewhere.
So we're doing well productivity-wise working well with our customers giving back what they need and still protecting our margins.
So overall we'd like to get a recovery on steel for instance.
But that's not in the cards today.
And wherever we've had any real wild swings the customers have always worked with us to help us mitigate those wild swings.
I guess that's the best way to answer it.
And then 2 smaller questions...
That big competitor were you talking about Magna? The 2 follow-up questions CSM did a little bit of a haircut on Detroit 3 production in North America I think for Q2 as well but it's a little bit inconsistent with anything we've heard publicly.
How are you guys feeling on that? I mean are you hearing anything that would make you think CSM would be right or perhaps too conservative on that? Well we're below were CSM is at pretty consistently CSM did talk about a pullback overall in the industry in North America that would represent about a 10% pullback in the second quarter.
Obviously from our guidance in the quarter weathering that how that breaks down by customer I haven't seen a whole lot by car line Himanshu if anything.
Right now the releases don't reflect that.
I think the car companies themselves are trying to sort through where the shortfalls are and they're going balance that with demand for the vehicles.
Ray do you have any -- you're in the discussions every day.
I don't have anything in particular to say.
All right.
So it's really Himanshu I think a wait-and-see game whether or not ultimately CSM will be accurate or not.
We're taking somewhat of a cautious view until we see.
We like them to be.
We'd like them.
Actually I think it would be great if they're right and they have it historically it would mean fairly accurate.
But again it will come down to which car lines are impacted.
We spent a lot of time sitting here and trying to decide what numbers to use and we're convinced that we've got the right number for the year under -- with the things that we have to face coming from Japan we don't know what the impact is going to be in the second quarter.
We believe it will be over some time in the early third quarter but we can't be sure of that.
So we think it's prudent to take this approach.
Bob maybe last one for you.
You caught my attention when you mentioned that you've elected to expand internally more than doing M&amp;A.
I understand I'm sure you guys are still actively looking at acquisitions but was that comment meant to signal some kind of change versus what you guys were thinking in terms of the trade-off between internal versus M&amp;A opportunities 6 months ago? Absolutely not.
It's the exact same strategy we've implemented since well before we went into chapter and since we've left we feel that we made not a number of errors.
But we lowered the balance sheet with debt and we spent a lot of money on restructuring.
We just don't want to go through that again.
We'd rather put new efficient assets in the right place and that's the direction that Lou and Ray are taking the business and I fully support it as does Matt and the rest of the team and the Board.
Are we looking at outside acquisitions? We look at all of them.
We have a number that we're looking at that we believe will enhance our product offering.
They're not major in the sense that they're transformational but they will help us to sell our products better.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Matt with regards to your guidance normally when you raise your sales guidance I would have expected you to increase your core operating earnings guidance but clearly you've got some offsets here.
I was hoping you could just say probably which one or 2 or 3 things would you say would be the primary reasons why you didn't raise your core operating earnings guidance along with your sales guidance? First off the vast majority of the sales increase $300 million relates to the strengthening of the euro.
That's not going to convert at your normal 15% kind of incremental conversion.
It's going to convert more to 3% or 4% type range.
So the vast majority of the sales growth really came from there.
There is some mix and the mix in the Japan impact kind of washed one another although with slightly different kind of financial G&amp;A from a conversion standpoint.
We are seeing a little bit step up in the commodity costs from the prior outlook.
That's when we look at that when we factor all those things in along with what we believe now will be a continuation of certain costs and efficiencies and premium costs with the shortages on these boards we thought would kind of mitigate during the year or pull back during the rest of the year.
We're holding our earnings guidance the same.
If we're able to perform better it will be towards the higher end of the range.
And if some of these problems persist or get a little worse it will be towards the mid-point or the lower end of the range.
Longer-term margin targets.
On the Seating side I think what I'm hearing you say is that 7.5% is a good run rate but it sounds like you're planning or continuing your plan of increasing your vertical integration.
So 7.5% might be a good run rate but we shouldn't be surprised to see some upside to that 7.5% over the next year 2 or 3 years.
That's a fair comment.
It's really a function of investment and investment dollars and the amount of capital we spend in that segment.
And as you see we are stepping up our spending.
So you would expect the margins to increase in order to get a return on an investment.
I think it's a fair statement on what you mentioned.
As you think about the electronics side of the business I know that in the past you talked about the electronics potentially increasing margins to the point where you're on par with the Seating side.
Your expectations today do you still believe that you can get kind of into that maybe 7% 7.5% range over the next 2 or 3 years? Absolutely.
To round it out a little bit the key if you think back to what we said about the segments is if a segment that really needed a level of critical math [indiscernible] to development costs in the engineering expenses in order to be a global provider on both low power and high power systems complete systems.
We are now approaching between our backlog and industry recovery that kind of $4 billion plus revenue number over the next several years.
That coupled with the restructuring efforts that Ray and his team are facing there we'll get that margin into the target range of 7% to 8%.
Do you want to add anything Ray? Absolutely.
I think with the backlog that's coming online [indiscernible] position ourself with high power launching of both has really driven a lot of opportunities for continuation of growth.
And we will put ourselves in a great position from an engineering restructured engineering and the footprint of our plants.
We are in a good position going forward.
And your last question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Slide 20 talks about continuing to win that new business.
I was hoping you could elaborate on that a little further.
Which segments are you seeing some strength at and perhaps regionally? And then when do you expect to update the next or announcement of backlog update? Both segments are winning business and they're winning globally so it's been across the Board.
We'll be winning in a study pace and we would expect that to continue.
We historically had only provided an annual update on backlog at the end of the year.
Last year we gave a mid-year update.
We probably anticipate I'd say in doing this again this year related to the second quarter earnings call.
And then on the full-year guidance did you share what your assumptions now are for the T900 platform? No we didn't.
It's about roughly 900 000 units.
Okay.
So that went up a little bit? Is that right? Yes.
And then lastly on the $400 million free cash flow guidance you were able to maintain it despite the $50 million of higher CapEx.
That's the function of conservatism early in the year or is there any change in terms of restructuring cash outlays or anything else in the wall? I wouldn't say conservatism.
I think the guidance overall is balanced.
The restructuring actions are occurring a little bit later in the year for several reasons.
We would expect the cash restructuring to be a little bit lower.
We're not committing about $90 million to $100 million of cash used for restructuring.
It's down slightly.
But again there's also a lot of other changes that are going through as far as working capital just as we get more clarity in the year.
And performance we've tightened it up.
And we will hold the number of $400 million a year even with the higher capital spend.
Okay great.
Any change in terms of the 2012 cash restructuring price path? We expect 2012 to go back out for more normalized levels.
We talked about that and our business normalizes close to about $40 million on average and we expect cash to be consistent with that.
Thank you and thanks to everybody who joined the call today.
The company is off to a pretty good start there are some concerns about the second quarter.
But the team is doing an outstanding job.
I want to thank all of you and just say let's get to work.
Thank you very much.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
The materials for our earnings call were filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Bob Rossiter CEO and President; and Matt Simoncini Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the last slide of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #2 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Bob Rossiter will review highlights from the second quarter.
Next Matt Simoncini will review our second quarter financial results and provide an update of our 2011 outlook and sales backlog then Bob Rossiter will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #3 and I'll hand it over to Bob.
Thank you Ed and good morning everybody.
Lear's positive momentum continued in the second quarter.
Sales and core operating earnings were both up about 20%.
We achieved our eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement of core operating earnings.
Our Electrical business continues to benefit from increasing scale and our margins improved significantly.
We continue to report positive free cash flow with $121 million in the second quarter and over $200 million in the first half of 2011 and we're winning new business globally in both our business segments.
The balance sheet continues to remain strong as we increase our revolving credit facility to $500 million in June.
We also continue to return cash to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
As a result of our improved operating performance and industry outlook we are increasing our full year guidance and Matt will provide details later.
Now go to Slide 4.
This Slide shows vehicle production in key automotive markets for the second quarter.
Global vehicle production was 17.9 million units down 1% from a year ago reflecting a significant reduction in Japan due to the earthquake and tsunami offset in part by growth in the emerging markets.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt for the second quarter financial results.
Thanks Bob.
Please turn to Slide #6.
This slide provides financial highlights for the second quarter.
Lear sales were $3.7 billion up 21% from a year ago reflecting the strong sales backlog the positive impact of foreign exchange and increased production on Lear platforms.
Core operating earnings were $228 million up 20% from a year ago.
The increase in earnings reflects the increase in sales and operating performance improvements partially offset by customer pricing and higher costs for product development launches and commodities.
This represents our eighth conservative quarter of year-over-year earnings improvement.
We generated $121 million of free cash flow during the quarter and finished the quarter with $1.8 billion of cash.
Our reported earnings per share was $1.65.
On the next few slides I'll cover our second quarter results in more detail and update our full year outlook.
Slide 7 provides a summary of our financial results for the second quarter of 2011.
As previously mentioned sales were up 21% to $3.7 billion.
Pretax income before interest and other was $220 million up $47 million from a year ago and net income was $178 million up $18 million.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 3.2% compared with 3.7% a year ago.
The lower SG&amp;A rate reflects the increase in sales.
Interest expense was $11 million down $3 million primarily reflecting higher interest income.
Other expense was $4 million compared with an income of $23 million a year ago primarily reflecting a year-over-year reduction of profitability of our international automotive components joint venture and unfavorable foreign exchange.
Our non-consolidated joint venture in Asia remained profitable however.
Depreciation and amortization was $64 million up $7 million from a year ago reflecting higher capital spending over the last several quarters.
Slide #8 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our second quarter results.
As I mentioned on a previous slide our reported pretax income before interest and other was $220 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring cost to special items we have core operating earnings of $228 million an increase of $38 million or 20% from a year ago.
Other special items in the second quarter include $19.7 million in tax benefits primarily reflecting a reversal of a valuation allowance in a foreign subsidiary.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the second quarter was $165 million and adjusted EPS was $1.54.
Please turn to Slide #9 for a summary of our results by business segment.
In Seating core operating earnings increased to $226 million up from $209 million a year ago.
The improved earnings results resulted from higher production backlog in cost reductions which were partially offset by customer price reductions and higher product development launch and commodity costs.
Adjusted margins in the second quarter were 7.9% down from a year ago.
Year-over-year margins were negatively impacted by customer pricing as well as higher launch development and commodity costs.
Slide #10 summarizes the operating performance in our Electrical segment.
Financial results in this segment continue to improve.
Adjusted margins in the second quarter improved to 6.1% up 90 basis points from year ago.
The margin improvement reflects the benefit of increased sales from higher production on Lear platforms sales backlog as well as the benefit of cost reductions which more than offset higher launch development and commodity costs and a negative impact of Japanese production disruptions.
Please turn to Slide #11.
We generated $121 million of free cash flow in the second quarter and $205 million in the first half of 2011.
Free cash flow in the first half increased as compared to a year ago despite higher capital expenditures and working capital.
The higher spending in 2011 reflects increased investment in new backlog programs and component capabilities in emerging markets.
Slide #12 provides an update regarding the share repurchase program that was announced in February.
During the second quarter we purchased 1.5 million shares of stock at an average price of $50 per share for a total of $73 million.
Year-to-date we have purchased $100 million of stock.
As of the end of the second quarter $300 million remained under the share repurchase authorization.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital prevailing financial and market conditions and other factors.
At June 22 we paid a cash dividend of $0.125 per share or approximately $13 million.
Total cash returned to shareholders during the second quarter was $86 million.
Please turn to Slide 13 for an updated status of our share count.
At the end of the second quarter we had approximately 104 million shares of common stock outstanding.
Approximately 660 000 warrants remain outstanding which are exercisable into 1.3 million shares of common stock.
The warrants expire on November 9 2014.
Assuming exercise of all the warrants investing on the management shares Lear's total shares outstanding would be 107.6 million shares.
Please turn to Slide 15 for a review of our major assumption for our 2011 outlook.
Our financial outlook assumes North American production of 12.7 million units in European production of 18 million units an increase from our prior guidance of 2% and 3% respectively.
Production assumptions are also up modestly in our key emerging markets.
Global vehicle production is forecasted to be up 2% from the prior outlook to 74.5 million units.
Our full year financial outlook is based on the assumption of a 2011 average euro/$1.40 unchanged from the prior outlook.
Commodity cost for steel and copper the 2 commodities that influence our business the most are relatively flat with prior guidance but still up meaningfully from last year.
We are also seeing additional pressure on other commodities that impact our business such as petroleum-based chemicals.
Additional challenges include continued shortage for certain components used in our Electrical business.
Slide #16 details our updated 2011 financial outlook.
We expect 2011 sales in the range of $13.4 billion to $13.8 billion up $400 million from our prior outlook reflecting primarily higher industry production.
We are increasing our 2011 outlook for core operating earnings by $40 million to $740 million to $780 million.
Tax expense excluding restructuring costs and other special items is expected to be approximately $135 million up $10 million from our prior outlook reflecting the increase in earnings.
Our outlook for cash taxes is unchanged at approximately $90 million.
Pretax operational restructuring costs in 2011 are estimated to be about $100 million down $25 million from our prior outlook.
Capital spending in 2011 is estimated to be down -- to be I'm sorry approximately $325 million.
This is an increase of $25 million from our prior outlook and it reflects increased investment and component capabilities in the emerging markets.
Free cash flow for 2011 is expected to be approximately $425 million up $25 million from our prior outlook.
The 2011 outlook for interest expense and depreciation and amortization remain unchanged from our prior outlook.
Adjusted earnings per share is forecasted at $4.95 to $5.30 per share.
Slide 17 provides an update of our 2011 to 2013 3-year backlog.
As a reminder we define backlog as new award programs over a 3-year period net of loss business and programs that roll off.
We do not include pursued or high confidence business or nonconsolidated programs.
Since the beginning of the year our sales backlog has increased by about $200 million.
The majority of the increase reflects new programs in Asia and Europe with most of the new business in Seating.
The present status of our 3-year backlog covering a 2011 to 2013 period now stands at $2.4 billion.
Now I'd like to turn it back to Bob for some closing comments.
Okay on Slide 19.
Thank you Matt.
In the second quarter we sustained our positive momentum.
Sales and earnings grew faster than industry production.
We achieved strong financial results in both business segments and we put in place a new credit agreement that provides additional liquidity and financial flexibility.
And we've continued to win new business and increase our sales backlog.
Based on our strong results in the quarter and improving production environment we are increasing our 2011 full year outlook for sales earnings and free cash flow.
I'm extremely proud of the performance of the Lear team and I'm proud to be a part of this team.
Your hard work and dedication in serving our customers have enabled us to continue to report improving results and grow our business.
I'll be happy to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Can you pass along the impact of FX raw materials and launch cost year-over-year in the quarter and what your expectations are now for the full year? Yes.
Launch cost in ER&amp;D together combined Rod are close to $70 million.
From a foreign exchange impact we did pick up some revenues on foreign exchange mainly the euro was roughly $200 million in revenue and that converts at the average kind of operating earnings in Europe of around 4% or 5%.
And is that -- do you happen to have a launch cost estimate increase for the full year? And is that something that comes down next year? It's a little bit early to talk about next year at this point Rod but I would tell you that year-over-year launches are about $30 million higher than last year and last year was about $60 million.
So our launch cost -- I would put -- peg our launch cost around $90 million for the year.
The cadence of the launches are slightly front-half loaded.
Engineering for the full year increases about $50 million.
And again from -- that would put that number at about $200 million in total.
And that is a little bit different.
That's a little bit more back half loaded.
So net-net between the 2 of them we're a little bit heavier than in back half of the year as we launch the backlog.
Now from a backlog cadence standpoint I would expect that there would not be a significant change next year in launch cost but still it's a little bit premature to get into the detail for 2012.
Okay.
And do you happen to have the DNA forecast for the year broken down between the Seating business and Electronics? And then lastly just a question on cash.
You continue to generate cash faster than you're deploying it even if you were to kind of run that at the current rate of repurchases.
It doesn't really look like it would dent your overall cash position all that materially.
Do you have any kind of updated thoughts on what your plans are for deploying that cash and getting a more efficient capital structure? Let me work backwards on that question starting with the cash deployment.
One of the hallmarks of Lear is the ability to generate free cash flow and this year is no different.
From a deployment of cash standpoint Rod our first focus is always to make sure that we invest in the business in a manner that allow us to serve our customers and still be the supplier of choice in both segments and we're doing that.
And that's going to require mainly organic investment in some of the emerging markets as we span our footprint there and our capabilities there and lower our cost in components.
Two we're going to look to do niche acquisitions to round out the product offering to facilitate diversity in sales and also to add scale in Electrical distribution and as we've mentioned before we're evaluating opportunities to do that.
Finally we've announced as you know the share repurchase and I think we had a nice pace this quarter on the share buyback.
And we would do that because were very cognizant of our relative valuation to others in the space and we think that's the right thing to do with the cash.
From a capital structure standpoint we had a nice step this quarter where the amended revolver will be upsized to $500 million.
And I think that gives us a lot of flexibility not only to run our business on a day-to-day basis but also to continue to invest in the business.
From a depreciation and amortization standpoint by segment it's roughly -- the breakdown is typically about 2/3 Seating 1/3 Electrical.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just curious I mean recently you've been beating expectations and then running ahead of what your guidance has been for the past few quarters.
As we look at that is the bulk of that in your mind driven by higher volumes or is there better execution going on internally than you've been expecting so even if volumes don't continue to recover you can still keep posting good numbers? Just trying to understand the volume versus the internal execution side of it? John there's literally thousands of inputs that go into making a projection.
First and foremost is the volume and the volume on the car lines that you're on.
Each car line has its own financial DNA so to speak depending upon how much product we have on it and how much of the product that we make where it's made and whatnot.
So I would tell you that we did get a nice mix of product when we were presenting guidance.
Earlier this year we were at 12.5 million units in North America and 17.4 million in Europe.
And the mix has benefited us in the second quarter.
So it always starts on selling your product.
Both businesses are performing well.
Electrical made a really nice step in their margins even with the headwinds on some of the components shortfalls that drove the premium cost.
Seating continues to perform well within their target margins on higher sales.
So I would tell you that it starts with sales but both businesses are performing very well.
And then just a second question.
I mean if we look at the key programs that you highlighted in the second quarter and even in the first quarter can you remind us if there are any programs that are really big standouts as a positive in that mix that you just kind of talked about? And how should we think about those key programs in the second half and how you're thinking about them? I think the premier German manufacturers had a really nice quarter.
I think the domestic automakers GM Ford both did extremely well.
We've got a lot of content on the 3-series and it still does strong in the marketplace to our expectations as does the large trucks and SUVs from GM.
The Explorer had a nice start and that's a good platform for us as well.
So those are probably the key drivers.
And then just lastly on the capital allocation and what you're doing to return value to shareholders just to kind of follow up on that.
Now with the new amended revolver in place your cash balance your forecasted free cash flow I mean what -- it looks like you're in a good spot.
What would it take to get you to release more value to shareholders through share buybacks? I mean the stock is below where it was the entire first quarter so I'd imagine you might want to get more aggressive on the share buybacks.
Just trying to really understand if there's something that you need on a macro basis that would be a trigger or is there just this massive macro uncertainty that's keeping you from potentially getting more aggressive? No I wouldn't say there's a macro uncertainty.
I think if you look at our priorities from an investment standpoint we believe we're still a growth company in a growth industry.
And our focus first and foremost is to continue to invest in the business in a manner that allow us to serve our customers continue to grow profitably and provide the type of returns to our shareholders that they expect.
So our first priority is always to continue to invest in the business.
And we're doing that and we'll continue to do that.
I don't believe it's mutually exclusive.
I think we can continue to provide cash back to our shareholders especially when we're trading at the levels that we're trading.
You have net cash of $1.1 billion.
It's almost 4x your annual CapEx.
I mean does that mean there's a large acquisition on the horizon that you're looking at or any of the strategic big strategic actions? No.
There's not.
We don't believe that we need a large acquisition.
We think both businesses are well placed.
We would look to do something that would provide either access to customer diversification access to geographic diversification to facilitate our growth in the emerging markets or something that would add some scale to Electrical Power Management Systems or some component capabilities.
But all in all I don't see a major acquisition in our future.
I will tell you this Murph that from our standpoint we continue to run the business.
We need to continue to invest in ourself.
It's a growth industry.
We see a nice quiet path on the industry recoveries globally over the next several years and we're going to participate in it.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Matt I think you've raised CapEx guidance for the year twice now.
Just how should we think about that going forward into next year? And how does that impact the long-term margin target to both Seating and Electrical? I would say that if you use -- just from an outlook standpoint directionally if you use a rule of thumb of about 2.5% of sales from a capital investment standpoint you won't be that far off.
As we continue to invest in the business we -- obviously that creates a higher capital intensity.
We think that we capture that in our target margins of 7.5% to 8.5% in Electrical distribution and Seating in the 7.5% to 8% range.
And I think at those levels we can provide a nice return on an investment.
Great.
And can you just remind us what the GMT900 production assumption now is in your new guidance? We've got it at 930.
930? Okay.
And just lastly with cash restructuring where restructuring is just coming down this year any change to your thinking around 2012 and beyond? No.
At this point I would say no.
These things are somewhat fluid because we're not in complete control of when we're able to take certain key actions that comes with negotiations with our customers production plans discussions with our unions and labor unions and whatnot.
So we're not always completely in control of the timing of it but at this point I would tell you that it does not change our thinking in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Question on the guidance.
So if I take the full year guidance and I strip out 1Q and 2Q actual results the implied second half guide at the EPS line is about 30% below the first half.
Now undoubtedly you guys are always putting out much bigger numbers relative to your guidance.
We think of it as being conservative which seems appropriate.
We've seen a number of other auto companies talk about second half being lower than first half; Ford and GM come to mind.
But is there anything that might be kind of outsized in how you're looking at the world for the second half versus first half? I'm just trying to frame frankly how conservative is the second half guide versus what we're seeing at other companies? Well we think it's balanced.
It starts with the production cadence in the production cadence on key car lines.
Right now we think that we're going to see a more typical automotive year as far as the cadence of production in sales which normally first half to second half is something in the 52% thereabouts in the first half versus the second half.
So it starts with that.
Now from a business standpoint we talk about a step-up in engineering and some support costs in the back half of the year as we continue to grow our business and continue to increase to the backlog.
And it's going to require some additional investments in engineering and in some of the emerging markets which will also be a headwind.
We are seeing some headwinds as well on commodities.
We mentioned the petroleum-based chemicals largely used in our foam fuel surcharges and whatnot with the crude oil being in the 90s.
So from that standpoint there are some headwinds but again we expect both businesses to perform well within their target margins for the full year again continued improvements in Electrical Distribution year-over-year.
And Seating continues to perform well.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I can ask a quick follow-up.
As we hear more about technologies like electrical power steering and vehicle stop-start how does that impact your Electrical Power Management Systems business going forward? Creates more opportunity.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
I mean any content for vehicle that take that option package or anything else that you can help me frame the opportunity? What I would tell you is this and let me see if I can get you there.
We're not going to frame the exact concept per vehicle on a power steering unit or something like that but what I will tell you is the opportunity on a content per vehicle in that business is driven by many things.
Even on traditional powertrains you're seeing more and more features and more and more computer management of internal combustion engines to improve efficiencies.
That's going to require more signals.
That's going to require more circuits.
That's going to require more content on electrical distribution systems.
On a hybrid or full electric the electrical content could be as much as double what you would see on a full-sized full-power luxury vehicle; anything from $1 000 to $2 000 of content on the vehicle.
What I would tell you is you'll see something in the content ranging from anywhere from 10% to 100%.
I know that's a big range but it really depends on the architecture.
Your next question comes from the line of Himanshu Patel with JPMorgan.
My question was really about controllable cost.
I know you don't want to give an outlook exclusively for 2012 but when you look at your backlog you have some pretty hefty years ongoing right now but '13 seems to step down.
When does that start benefiting you guys in terms of moderation on things like engineering costs? Does that start showing kind of early '12 or more towards the end of '12? If that backlog number remains the same which we don't expect it to I think what you're seeing is really the cadence of the sourcing.
There was a backlog of the backlog.
There was a backlog in sourcing cadence due largely to the disruption that we saw a year ago in the industry -- a little over a year ago.
And I think there was a flurry of sourcing activity and you're seeing it in a kind of a launch.
Going back to 2009 many of the programs were delayed and what that did was push the backlog into '10 '11 and '12.
I still think there's opportunity to increase that number significant opportunity to increase that number in 2013 Himanshu and I would expect that number to grow.
Now if it stays static yeah you would start seeing some benefit as we're able to sunset some engineering costs on new programs in 2012.
But we don't expect that number to stay at that size.
So there's still a scope to upgrade 2013 basically on the backlog? Absolutely.
Okay.
Is there any update you can give us on the antitrust situation? I mean you guys put out your comments I think in February of 2010.
And it's been a year and a half now.
Has there been any movement on that you can shed some color on? This is Terry Larkin the general counsel at Lear.
You are correct.
Just for the benefit of everybody listening in on the call we -- our Paris offices were visited by the European Commission and the French authorities in February 2010 as part of an investigation into the anti-competitive practices allegedly occurring among automotive electrical -- electronic component suppliers.
We are cooperating fully with the authorities in an investigation.
We have recently received a supplemental request for information.
We understand that that request is not unusual and so our cooperation with the authorities continues.
To our knowledge we're not involved in any of the antitrust investigations that were going on in Japan or here in the United States.
Okay.
I guess two questions.
I mean my understanding is the agencies they talk to each other a lot.
So -- but despite that you still think the investigations in Japan are not related at all to the European investigation? We really are not in a position to speculate as to whether they are related or not.
I think your premise that they talk with each other is correct though.
Okay.
And then just a clarification.
Are you under investigation in Europe or is it a inquiry in Europe? The term used by the European commission is an investigation that covers the broad range of all sorts of inquiries so there's no particular significance attached to the word investigation by the commission.
Okay great.
And then Matt just maybe a final question.
We talked a little bit about this before but we're just seeing a flurry of upper derivations on CapEx across the space.
I know you guys mentioned some of it for you as related to I think investment on emerging market component capability.
But I guess just broadly are you seeing something on the acceleration of product development schedules from OEMs or -- that's sort of triggering this? Is there any sort of common theme you're picking up on? Or you view this as pretty kind of one-off earlier? It's really I think it's driven more than anything by the growth in the emerging markets and the need to have some selective vertical integration is an opportunity to control your qualities serve your customers and improve your cost footprint.
In our case we balance the ability to do that organically versus niche acquisitions and the value that it can create to our investors our shareholders.
I can't speak to others.
I know from our standpoint Himanshu really what drives it is we think there's a real opportunity to provide value to our customers and shareholders by making this investment.
Returns are good.
And I think more importantly it kind of helps us improve our quality and cost footprint for our customers.
And when you talk about -- you've discussed better vertical integration on the Electrical business before.
Is that -- just help us understand the commercial benefits of that.
Does that help you win additional business or is it more just kind of a margin play? It's both.
I think that whenever you can control quality and reduce your cost it makes you more competitive and gives you advantages when you're winning new business.
From our standpoint I think we're uniquely positioned in the marketplace because of our ability to do a complete electrical distribution design and manufacture of all of the components in every continent in the world both high-powered and low-powered.
So from that standpoint if we could expand our capabilities to things like connector systems and expand our European business into other regions that would be very very good for us.
Your next question comes from Aditya Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
So I just want to follow up on the question about CapEx.
Is it -- the increased guidance is it more investment that you guys are doing or you're just pulling forward some of the investments you plan for the next year -- next 2 years? It's more investment.
I mean from our standpoint we're pretty excited about some of the investments that we've made.
We've expanded our capabilities in Brazil in both our mechanisms facility and new facility and mechanisms in Brazil as well as new electrical distribution facility in Brazil and in Thailand.
We're expanding our mechanisms capabilities in Asia both in China and India.
We're looking to do the same with connector systems.
So it's really -- it's an increased investment.
Okay great.
And other question I had was on pricing.
You guys mentioned selling price reductions as one of the parameters that we had on margins in both the segments.
Is it the standard 1% to 2% price reduction that is what we're talking about or is there anything over and beyond that that you saw this quarter? We usually see a net price reduction of about 2%.
We're able to provide much more value to our customers though through value engineering and being able to take costs out of the product for them in a collaborative manner.
But net it runs around 2% plus or minus.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays Capital.
Would like to talk maybe a bit more strategically about the margin development and kind of where you are in your strategies both in Seating and Electrical.
Maybe start with Seating because clearly you're still running above the 7.5% -- end of the 7.5% to 8% margin.
Is the kind of 7.9% we're seeing about where it's going to go? And is there sort of equilibrium at work there where you can get backlog rolling in but pressure on commodities and price bounds coming to kind of keep it in that range? Conversely are you seeing maybe better margin enhancement as you vertically integrate some of the content increases in Electrical? And what does that imply about either the 7.5% 8% target or the pace of you getting there? Let's break it down.
Let's work in reverse.
Electrical distribution.
One of the drags on that business recently have been the fact that it was under-scaled.
And the amount of investment we need to make in infrastructure cost we needed to maintain in order to be able to provide both high-powered low-power solutions in every continent in the word fully integrated.
Couple of years ago our fixed cost was running at about 25% of sales when the business was at $2 billion.
We need to scale that business up and we need to get in the $4 billion plus range to get it into their target margin of 7.5% to 8.5%.
Now again there's no magic to that number.
What makes that number work for us is at that rate we can return in excess of our cost of capital on the asset intensity of that business.
We believe that through backlog in the industry recovery that we can achieve those types of sales and margin expectations over the next several years.
We're well on our path.
The business has made a nice step this year and we should expect that business to run in the 5.5% to 6% range for the remainder of the year.
On Seating.
Seating we believe in the 7.5% to 8% range is kind of where it's at.
In any given quarter we could break through the upper end or the lower end but it will average out at that rate.
Sometimes it's hard to call a margin number specific in a quarter because of the mix and product and expenses are not always linear nor are commercial remedies or commercial solutions.
So sometimes we have some chop in the quarter that would put you above or below.
But on average we're comfortable with that range.
That range is important as well because with the capital intensity in Seating that again allows us to return on our investment in excess of our cost of capital.
So I think Seating is pretty much running at the rate and there's a natural commercial pothole in this business where I think it always comes back to the type of return on investment.
And as long as we can return in excess of our cost of capital then we can continue to serve our customers in a cost-efficient manner continue to grow and still provide returns to our shareholders.
So really it's electrical where we ought to be looking for incremental profitability lifting the margins up.
In Seating it's kind of running at its roughly its average margin rate.
And so it's not something where volume will drop to the line in line with the average margin.
Let me try to answer in a Bob Rossiter manner.
Seating is at target and Electrical will continue to improve.
Okay.
And the pace of Electrical isn't any faster or slower than you anticipated earlier? It's pretty much as we expected.
They had a nice quarter.
That was a very nice performance from that segment.
Ray Scott and his team did an outstanding job.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso with Credit Suisse.
Just a couple of items here.
Can you give us the FX contribution to revenue by segment? We don't have that by segment per se.
Why don't I hand it over to Jason Cardew our Vice President of Global Finance? Do you have that handy Jason? Foreign exchange for the quarter by segment? Yes.
It was about $170 million in Seating and $60 million in Electrical.
And any difference in the contribution on that? You said before Matt that it was about the -- corporate average around 4% 5% something like that? Yes.
And slightly -- I would say probably slightly higher in Seating but pretty consistent between the 2 of them.
Okay.
And then were there any costs in the quarter associated with supply-chain disruptions workarounds premium freight? Can you give us a ballpark number for Q2 and if you expect that to diminish completely in Q3 and beyond? There were costs associated with supply-chain disruptions.
And where we're seeing it is in the -- mainly in the Electrical Distribution business although Seating did get impacted by it in a modest way.
The costs in the quarter were roughly $6 million.
We would expect some level of that to continue through the remainder of the year.
Really? Continue through the rest of the year at a lower pace than that? Slightly lower.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
I guess on the backlog it looked like there was a bit of a shift towards the Seating business.
And if I'm doing my math right it looks like almost all if not more of the incremental backlog came in Seating.
Can you explain what's going on there? I think both businesses continue to win new programs.
From a backlog standpoint if you look at it overall we're still somewhat disproportionately Electrical that could penetrate the market.
The net wins the way the math worked in this update of $200 million the net wins were Seating but both businesses are winning new programs.
But there's been no change in how and where you're quoting business and for which segment? No not at all.
And can you just broadly comment on the macro environment? There's been a lot of talk of potentially going to a double-dip recession.
How do you think the supply base is equipped to do something at that? And specifically how are you guys thinking of that as well? One I can't speak to the supply base overall.
I can speak to the Lear Corporation and our suppliers.
From our standpoint I think one of the benefits of Lear is obviously the strength of our balance sheet and our ability to take advantage of opportunities both to consolidate and invest the business.
This is still a global growth industry.
Whether there's a near term blip or pullback we're still running significantly below sustainable demand or long-term demand levels in North America and I think that provides an opportunity as in Europe and in the mature markets.
From an emerging markets standpoint I still think there's huge upside and continued growth over the foreseeable future.
So while there may be a pullback or if there was a pullback in mature markets I think Lear is in a great position to take advantage of a market crashing like that and the ability maybe to consolidate.
We don't personally see it.
The releases are strong.
The product is great.
We're in a great shape and we're pretty bullish on the future.
Got it.
And finally can you just quantify the impact of Japan disruptions in the quarter? And also you spoke about some premium cost on the Electrical side if you can give us some more color there? The impact in Japan on our direct sales into Japan really impacted Electrical Distribution mainly.
And it was about $65 million in revenue and about $20 million in earnings.
From that standpoint the premium cost that we incurred there were shortages.
And one that everybody pretty much incurred across-the-board in the industry was on the circuit boards.
And there was a shortage of system majority of the world's boards come out of Japan and those facilities were offline.
And what that resulted in was premium freight and inefficient operations and some bloated inventory on other components as we managed a rationed supply of the boards.
It also saw an increase in some of the other electrical components like fuses and relays.
From a premium standpoint we talked about a number of $6 million and that's really what drove it.
Your final question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton with Keybanc.
Matt on the Electrical margin side can you talk about the differences in your view of contribution margins on production or changes in production versus your backlog? Well backlog will typically come out a little bit lower than changes on production.
And again we're just making broad general statements as a rule of thumb.
Typically if you do just get incremental volume and you're able to run up to your facility you obviously get certain efficiencies on your fixed cost structures fixed cost structure and you convert between 15% to 20% on average.
Again this is just a very broad rule of thumb.
Backlog on the other hand is going to come in a little bit lower as you improve your efficiencies and designs to run it a little bit better in time so you'll see something around 10%.
And then can you quantify for me -- I think you might have done this for Rod and I just missed it but can you quantify the difference in your ER&amp;D spending second half versus first half? Yes.
It's going to be -- there's going to be a step-up in the ER&amp;D spending.
For the full year we expect that number to be around $200 million.
And we would expect the second half to be roughly 55% of that number.
And then your European production forecast somewhat below what the industry is looking for.
I believe part of that is because you exclude maybe Russia or something along those lines.
But even on a percentage change basis it is a little bit more conservative.
I'm wondering is that merely just conservatism on your part or is it -- there's is something that you're seeing in the releases or something else along those lines or commentary from your customers that is kind of leading you towards maybe a little bit more conservative bend? Well we moved the number up from $17.4 million from our previous guidance to $18 million.
It does exclude Russia Brett.
Right now we're not hearing anything one way or the other from our customers.
The releases continue to hold firm.
We just believe that this is a balanced production number to use for the sake of setting guidance at this point.
Thank you very much everybody for being on the call.
Matt as usual you did an absolutely outstanding job.
Finance team couldn't do it without you.
Corporation corporate headquarters everybody's doing an outstanding job.
Ray Scott you and your team are doing an outstanding job.
And Lou Salvatore and your team are again continuing to be very special.
You're a great team of people.
Good to get out there.
Let's keep this thing going.
We're moving on the right direction and I'm proud of you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sara and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld you may begin.
Thank you Sara.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
The materials for our earnings call were filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jason Cardew Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the last slide of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #2 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt will review highlights from the third quarter.
Next Jason will review our third quarter financial results and our full year 2011 outlook and then Matt will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #3 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
Our trend of positive momentum continued in the third quarter.
Sales and earnings increased at a faster pace than the industry production and we achieved our ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in core operating earnings.
We generated $64 million of free cash flow in the third quarter.
In addition to reinvesting in the business we also have been returning cash to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
During the quarter share repurchases and dividends totaled $107 million.
In August J.D.
Power released its annual Seat Quality Study and Lear was recognized as the highest quality major seat manufacture for the 10th time in 11 years.
We are increasing our full year guidance and Jason will provide details a little bit later in the presentation.
Please turn to Slide #4.
There's no change in the strategic direction of our company from what we've been talking about for the last several years.
We believe we are well positioned in both our business segments with global product capability and financial flexibility to grow and further diversify our business.
Our primary focus remains on serving our customers to ensure we are a supplier of choice.
We plan to continue to expand our component capabilities in emerging markets to further improve as well as create long-term shareholder value.
We continue to evaluate niche acquisitions that will expand our capabilities in the emerging markets increase our sales and add scale to our Electrical segment.
No major acquisitions are needed or planned.
We are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet with investment-grade metrics.
Finally I would like to discuss some recent management changes.
Lear has a very deep bench with outstanding management talent.
At the end of September Lou Salvatore who ran our seating business left the company.
This week I asked Ray Scott our most experienced operating executive to return to seating to lead that team.
Most recently Ray has done a great job leading the turnaround of our EPMS business.
We have also announced that Frank Orsini who worked closely with Ray in running our EPMS business to go back to running EPMS as the Interim President.
I am confident that both of these leaders will do an outstanding job in their new roles.
Slide #5 highlights our geographic sales diversification of recent growth in emerging markets.
We continue to diversify our sales with almost 2/3 of total sales outside of North America.
The Asia Pacific region continues to grow and is expected to account for approximately 16% of our consolidated worldwide sales in 2011.
Furthermore our sales in the BRIC markets have grown significantly in the past 5 years from about $800 million in 2006 to approximately $2.4 billion this year.
This represents an annual growth rate of 24% versus industry growth of 17%.
Over half of our BRIC sales or approximately $1.3 billion are in China.
This does not include however our sales at our unconsolidated joint ventures in China which total approximately $700 million.
Slide #6 shows our recent and planned investment in low-cost component capacity.
For the period 2010 through 2012 we anticipate spending approximately $300 million on new component capacity in low cost regions.
In seating we are adding capacity in seat trim structures metals and mechanisms and seat foam.
In electrical we're adding wire harness capacity as well as capacities in connectors and electronics.
Please turn to Page 7.
As I mentioned earlier we have been successful in growing our electrical business over the last several years.
In 2011 we expect over $3 billion in EPMS sales.
Going forward we expect this sale to grow -- this segment to grow at a rate faster than the overall industry.
Factors that support our growth plans include an increase in electrical content in vehicles further industry recovery a strong sales backlog and content growth in traditional and high-powered systems.
Based on our expected sales growth we expect that we can increase scale sufficiently to allow us to achieve our target margins.
Turning to our seating business.
Slide #8 provides more detail on the 2011 J.D.
Power &amp; Associates seat quality satisfaction study that I mentioned earlier.
The left side of the page shows the trend of Lear seat quality as measured by the number of problems over 100 vehicles.
Our 2011 performance which was our best ever improved by 13% compared to a year ago.
The right side of the page highlights our ranking among all seat manufacturers.
Now I'll turn it over to Jason for a review of our financial results and the outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thanks Matt.
Please turn to Slide #10.
This slide provides financial highlights for the third quarter.
Lear sales were $3.5 billion up 23% from a year ago reflecting our strong sales backlog increased production on Lear platforms and the positive impact of foreign exchange.
Core operating earnings were $178 million up 19% from a year ago.
The increase in earnings reflects higher sales as well as operating performance improvements partially offset by customer pricing and higher cost for product launches engineering and commodities.
We generated $64 million of free cash flow during the quarter and finished the quarter with a cash balance of $1.7 billion.
Our reported EPS is $0.95 per share.
On the next few slides I'll cover our third quarter results in more detail and update our full year outlook.
Slide #11 shows vehicle production in key automotive markets for the third quarter.
Global vehicle production was 18.4 million units up 6% from a year ago reflecting increases in all major markets except for Japan which is still recovering from the earthquake and tsunami that occurred earlier this year.
Slide #12 provides more detailed summary of our financial results for the third quarter of 2011.
As previously mentioned sales were up 23% to $3.5 billion.
Pretax income before interest and other was $159 million up $40 million from a year ago.
Tax expense increased by $26 million from last year reflecting higher earnings and the mix of earnings by country as well as a low effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2010.
Net income was $101 million up $5 million from a year ago.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 3.3% compared with 3.9% a year ago reflecting the increase in sales.
Other expense was $9 million up $6 million primarily reflecting losses at our IAC joint venture and the impact of foreign exchange.
Our nonconsolidated joint ventures in Asia remain profitable.
Depreciation and amortization was $64 million up $5 million from a year ago reflecting higher capital spending over the last 4 quarters.
Slide #13 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our third quarter results.
Our reported pretax income before interest and other expense was $159 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring cost and special items primarily related to the emergence equity grant we had core operating earnings of $178 million an increase of $28 million or 19% compared with a year ago.
Other special items in the third quarter include $2.8 million in income primarily reflecting the gain related to an affiliate transaction and $3 million in tax benefits primarily resulting from the release of a valuation allowance in a foreign subsidiary.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the third quarter was $114 million and adjusted EPS was $1.08.
Please turn to Slide #14 for a summary of our results by business segment.
In seating core operating earnings increased by $17 million to $181 million.
Adjusted margins in the third quarter were 6.7% down from a year ago.
Year-over-year margins were negatively impacted by customer pricing as well as higher launch development and commodity cost.
Year-to-date adjusted margins in seating are 7.5%.
Slide #15 summarizes performance in our EPMS segment.
Financial results in this segment continue to show year-over-year improvement.
Adjusted margins in the third quarter improved to 5.4% up 120 basis points from a year ago.
The margin improvement reflects favorable operating performance and the benefit of increased production on Lear platforms which more than offset customer price reductions and higher launch and commodity cost.
Year-to-date adjusted margins in EPMS are 5.7%.
Please turn to Slide #16.
We generated $64 million of free cash flow in the third quarter and $269 million through the first 9 months of 2011.
Year-to-date free cash flow is flat compared to last year as the increase in earnings was offset by higher capital expenditures.
As Matt mentioned earlier higher capital spending in 2011 reflects primarily increased investment in component capacity in low-cost countries.
Slide #17 provides an update on our share repurchase program which was announced in February.
During the third quarter we purchased 2.1 million shares of stock at an average price of about $45 per share for a total of $94 million.
Year-to-date we have purchased $194 million of stock.
As of the end of the third quarter $206 million remained under the share repurchase authorization.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's other alternative uses of capital prevailing financial and market conditions and certain other factors.
On September 21 we paid a cash dividend of $0.125 per share or approximately $13 million.
Total cash returned to shareholders during the third quarter was $107 million.
Please turn to Slide #19 for the major assumptions underlying our 2011 full year financial outlook.
Our outlook assumes North American production of 12.9 million units and European production of 18.1 million units an increase from our prior outlook of 2% and 1% respectively.
In key emerging markets our outlook assumes China production of 16 million units up 2% from our prior outlook.
Production in Brazil and India are forecasted to be down from our prior outlook by 2% and 9% respectively.
Our forecast for global vehicle production is up 1% from our prior outlook to 75.2 million units.
Our 2011 outlook is based on an assumption of an average euro of $1.40 which is unchanged.
Copper cost has trended down since the beginning of September but remained high relative to historical levels.
Taken into account the recent pullback our outlook assumes copper at a full year 2011 average cost of $4.25 per pound down $0.15 or 3% from our prior outlook.
Steel costs are flat with our prior guidance however both copper and steel are up almost 25% from last year.
We continue to see additional pressure on other commodities that impact our business such as petroleum-based chemicals.
Slide #20 summarizes our updated 2011 financial outlook.
We expect 2011 sales in the range of $13.8 billion to $14.1 billion up from our prior outlook reflecting higher industry production.
We are increasing our 2011 outlook for core operating earnings to $760 million to $790 million.
Interest expense is expected to be approximately $40 million down $5 million from our prior outlook reflecting primarily higher interest income.
Other expense which includes equity earnings at our nonconsolidated joint ventures foreign exchange state and local taxes and other miscellaneous items is forecast at about $10 million.
This is up $10 million from our prior forecast reflecting lower equity earnings at our IAC joint venture and the impact of foreign exchange.
Tax expense excluding restructuring costs and other special items is expected to be approximately $140 million $5 million higher than our prior outlook reflecting the increase in pretax income and the mix of earnings by country.
Free cash flow for 2011 is expected to be approximately $435 million up $10 million from our prior outlook reflecting the increase in earnings.
The remainder of our 2011 outlook is unchanged.
Taking into account the changes noted above and pure outstanding shares as of the end of the third quarter our adjusted EPS forecast has increased to a range of $5.05 to $5.35.
Now I will turn it over to Matt for a brief summary.
Thanks Jason great job.
We had another strong quarter of performance.
Our competitive market position as well as our balance sheet will drive further growth and value creation.
In closing I want to thank the Lear team for their continued hard work and dedication.
I'm very proud to lead what I believe is the best team in the industry.
Thank you for your interest in Lear and we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I had a couple questions.
First I was hoping you can drill down a little bit for us on the incremental margin bridge.
You had $640 million of revenue growth on a year-over-year basis and maybe first of all how much of that was FX of the $640 million? The $153 million of that was FX Rod.
Research Division</strong> So you had basically $487 million or so of revenue growth organically and about $30 million of EBIT growth which looks a little light relative to history.
Maybe just -- can you drill down on that for us? Right.
Well first of all let me just break down the remainder of the sales change.
We had a very strong backlog quarter with $280 million of backlog.
So there's about $170 million for volume.
If you think about our normal conversion on the backlog we like to look for about 10% on that.
It's not going to convert at the same level as volume.
And on the volume change we'd expect that to convert at about 15% to 20% which it did in the quarter.
So really what's offsetting the benefit of volume and backlog in the quarter is higher commodity costs of $15 million in the quarter and higher launch and development cost of about $18 million in the quarter.
Yes I think you're raising a good point Rod.
We weren't as crisp as we would like or as efficient as we would like in some of our launches.
In North America we were launching a lot of product this quarter and we just didn't come out as crisp as we would have wanted.
That impacted the conversion.
Research Division</strong> Did the launch cost diminish a bit going forward on a year-over-year basis? It's a little bit richer in the back half of the year versus the first half.
All in all I would say you probably look at the fourth quarter it's fairly consistent with what we saw in the third.
Research Division</strong> How about next year versus this year? It looks like revenue -- this is the big year for revenue growth on a year-over-year basis is it more comparable in 2012? Yes the backlog next year is actually pretty comparable.
I don't want to really get into a whole lot of sitting numbers for next year.
The guidance next year the backlog for next year is pretty consistent year-over-year.
Again the top number is consistent but it really comes down to the number of launches and the time line on those launches.
It's probably one of the most uncertain things in the industry is your launch performance of that and possibly moving production from one facility to the next which is actually pretty simple similar to a launch.
There's probably not a whole lot we could say at this point any further on '12 though Rod.
Research Division</strong> And maybe drilling down into the divisions the seating business had been running 7% to 8% margins had a fixed [ph] handle this quarter should we be reading -- you did mention pricing and raws there.
Is there anything for us to read into that just kind of prospectively about the margins there or do you think that that kind of comes back? No you've heard me say many times that I think that business operates on a longer-term basis between 7% to 8%.
In any given quarter or short-term period it could be above or below that range.
I wouldn't read anything into it longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay just -- and lastly you do have some disclosures about I think 5 facilities in Thailand just if you have any update on what you're seeing just regionally and in particular with those disruptions up there? Is that something that's material? We do have 5 facilities in Thailand 4 manufacturing facilities and a commercial headquarters.
And we have had no damage to any of the facilities as a result of the flood and -- but we have seen our customers take some downtime.
Ford and Nissan are our largest customers there and both have been down for several weeks.
We expect that to continue for another few weeks.
What's more difficult to predict is perhaps the impact on components that come out of Thailand.
So far there's been no direct impact on components that we buy from Thailand but that could change.
Research Division</strong> What percentage of your revenue would Thailand represent? It's about 1.5%.
Pretty small.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So the -- it looks like you're paying out just about all the cash you're going to generate this year.
You mentioned no acquisitions needed or planned.
You do still have a fair amount of excess cash on the balance sheet.
Any plans to do anything with that or you're holding it just because the market is still uncertain? No it's not necessarily that.
I mean we like to maintain a level of about $1 billion liquidity combination of cash and revolver.
Really I mean our first priority is always to invest in the business for long-term value creation and that comes by being the low-cost producer high-quality producer and being in the regions of the world where the growth is coming and that obviously requires capital investment.
We also are looking for potential niche acquisitions that could either facilitate our growth and diversification or add that component capacity in emerging markets or possibly add some capabilities in things like connector systems and what have you.
We're not really just holding it for the sake of holding it.
I think we've made a nice step in returning cash to shareholders approximately $200 million through the first half of the year and will continue to probably do that in a very systemic and consistent manner and that's it.
As far as acquisitions we don't really think we need a major acquisition.
We're not looking at it.
And from our standpoint while there are -- there is some uncertainty on a go-forward basis with production -- I know IHS is calling for a little bit of flat number next year in Europe.
We still think that this is a growth industry and that we're going to see a recovery albeit maybe a little bit more gradual than we originally anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us any detail on what's going with IAC? It seems like that was a pretty big hit to your P&amp;L below the operating line.
Every supplier that we cover is reporting better results versus a year ago.
What's happening with IAC? Well we don't have an active role in the management of that organization.
We do know that Wilbur Ross has been successful in all the investments that he's done and we would expect this to be no different.
We do have -- we have approximately a 22% equity stake in that business and it's not core to us.
And at some point we'd be looking to monetize it and invest in something that is core.
On that we really can't say they are as much as anybody else exposed to certain petroleum-based chemicals like resins and what have you.
But other than that I really can't shed a whole lot more light on it.
Research Division</strong> About how much of that $11 million was related to IAC? And how much was FX related? Well that line has a lot going through it and Jason can give you a breakdown.
But it's not quite that clean Chris.
There's a lot of things that go through that line.
Yes equity earnings overall were down about $7 million from last year and FX was up by about $3 million.
Research Division</strong> Did you get any help from the real or did that seem to have benefited some other folks? I'm not seeing a whole heck of a lot there.
There is a small change.
Let me see here maybe $10 million in revenue in the quarter for FX.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from the Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question is on acquisitions.
You alluded to doing maybe some small acquisitions on the EPMS side.
Just curious if you think you need to do that or you can grow through organic investment there and be real competitive.
But also in addition on the seating side one of your big competitors has made some acquisitions on metals with frames and tracks.
Just curious if you think you might need to do something on that side and where you are sort of in that vertical integration with the seat tracks and frames.
Well let me break it down step-by-step Murph.
Starting on electrical side do we think we need to? No we don't.
We think we can get there organically.
However through an acquisition it may facilitate or expedite the growth because it comes in typically with an existing management team existing production capacity and customer purchase orders.
So if we could do something that made sense we would look to do that within reason valuation and -- but we're looking and everybody's kind of looking for the same thing.
On the seat side the acquisitions of the mechanism provider Keiper and Hammerstein by one of our competitors is an interesting move.
From our standpoint we didn't think we needed to do that.
We've got the technology and from -- we're very focused on having the right footprint.
And we like where we're at from a footprint perspective in Europe.
If we could get the right footprint and make an acquisition and add capacity in an emerging market that can also serve as a low-cost source for those mechanisms we would do that.
But we don't feel that we need to respond to that action in any way.
And we've got a nice book of business with mechanisms and track and it's actually our heritage is -- comes from the seat structures and we're pretty happy with where we're at right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just a second question on the schedules that you saw in the third quarter and what you might be seeing in the fourth quarter you sort of alluded to being maybe not as crisp as you would've liked in the quarter on execution in North America.
I'm just curious if you were maybe caught off guard a little bit with vinyls being stronger than you expected and really what you're seeing going into the fourth quarter if you're seeing schedules maybe even a little bit stronger than you would have thought before and maybe even stronger than relative to what IHS is putting out right now.
No we weren't really caught off guard by the schedules.
We're always a little bit cautious about the schedules because the schedules typically are set and the releases are set John to protect production for the customers.
And we've learned through history that they can pull back on a relatively short-term notice.
So we keep our eye on inventories.
The problem with that is it's kind of hard to see the inventory levels in markets outside of America.
For the fourth quarter Jason what are you seeing? We're seeing a small increase in North America and a bigger step-up in Europe sequentially from the third quarter.
Yes from our standpoint there's nothing remarkable.
In the releases John at this point we've just got to be a little bit cautious because they do have a tendency to change on short notice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly Matt as you go through the next I don't know 50 days and do strategic review which I'm sure you're constantly doing is there any point in time when you think you have -- you might change strategy a little bit? I mean I know you've alluded to this being seamless.
I certainly would agree from that.
From an operating standpoint I'm just curious if there's any point in time where you think as we roll into 2012 that you might change your mind or make any revisions.
John I learned in my life never to say never.
But I'd really be surprised if there was a change in direction since the strategy was really developed by guys that are still here and myself included.
So I buy into the strategy and had a big hand in developing it so I'd be surprised.
Now business is dynamic.
The beauty is that we have the ability and the flexibility to maybe modify the strategy but I'd be very very surprised if there was a change in direction.
I'm comfortable where we're at.
I'm comfortable with both business segments.
I'm very excited about the EPMS segment and the improvements that were made there underway and what Frank's going to do as the leader of that segment.
So Murph I'd be very very surprised if there was a change in direction.
Your next question comes from the line of Himanshu Patel from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Amy Carroll in for Himanshu.
I just had a quick question.
Can you give us an update on the antitrust case? We're seeing some headlines about opening of civil suits and so forth I'd like to turn that question over to Terry Larkin who's at the table right now who's our General Counsel.
So Terry? Yes.
As we've disclosed publicly we were once sued in a civil antitrust class action lawsuit.
I guess it was on October 5 when the first one was filed.
Since then there have been 12 others that are very similar in nature.
And I think what is important to understand about these lawsuits is first that they are civil lawsuits.
These are not criminal proceedings brought by the U.S.
Department of Justice.
And secondly these are 40 class actions filed by indirect purchasers and what that means is that these are individuals who bought new or used vehicles who claimed that price fixing caused the price of their vehicle to be higher because the cost of wire harnesses was higher.
These are not lawsuits brought by our customers who make those allegations.
Ultimately we expect all these cases and there may be more filed yet that's not uncommon in these kinds of matters.
But we also expect they all will be consolidated for at least trial proceedings into one case.
And as we've said publicly before we do not believe that Lear engaged in any anticompetitive behavior in violation of the U.S.
antitrust laws and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a sense of the magnitude of how much they're claiming or at least the time frame of the suits? Is it like back in 2000 to 2005 or something like that? The time frame for the purported class period is roughly 2000 through 2010.
We don't have any estimate of what their damage claims might be.
They are not required to articulate those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I had is I think a lot of dealers and as well as OEMs are saying that the -- their truck mix have improved.
What are your thoughts on GMT900 production heading into 2012? It's a little bit early to call the 2012 number.
We have raised our GMT900 production assumption for this year.
We're assuming just under 1 million units for 2011.
I think if you look at what IHS is projecting for next year they have that number coming down a little bit from 1 million to well I'll say 975 000 somewhere in that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to other expense.
It looks like from your full year guidance you're probably modeling about flattish other expense in the fourth quarter.
So are you seeing anything better in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter or is that more of just a place holder for now? Yes we are modeling it to be flat in the fourth quarter or maybe even slightly positive.
We don't anticipate that FX will be the same headwind that it was in the third quarter and we do see an improvement in equity earnings from the third to the fourth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just also in the fourth quarter can you maybe share directionally what you're looking for in terms of the seating and electrical margin within the guidance? Yes and if you just look at what we're guiding to in the fourth quarter it would be roughly flat to up slightly from the third in seating and up in electrical.
We're going to benefit a little bit in the fourth quarter from lower capital pricing in electrical.
That will help us.
Research Division</strong> Is there any impact at all for Thailand or a contingency in the guidance in the fourth quarter? Are you pretty set on what the outlook there is for you guys? We've included what we know at this point and so we lost about 2.5 weeks of production in October.
We're expecting to lose the first week of production in November and that's what we've assumed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Can you quantify how much that's worth on the EBIT line? It's an insignificant amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly Matt can you maybe just talk about how your recent conversations with customers have gone? And also maybe comment on the booking activity in general this year? The conversations with the customers have been good.
Lear has been well-regarded.
I've spent the vast majority of my time as CEO going back to September 1 traveling around the world and meeting with our customers.
And for the most part they're extremely happy with Lear.
They appreciate our global footprint.
They're happy with the way that the succession plan was run and that Lear's culture will continue.
And it's been relatively seamless for them.
So from that standpoint it's been good.
As far as the bookings we're continuing to win business.
It's really more driven by the cadence of the program awards but we're in there and we're winning more than our share in all segments.
So it's been a nice kind of continuation.
And the transition from Bob to me has been seamless in the eyes of the customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just want to get a sense from you and I know that I asked the question last quarter about the -- how we ought to think about mid-term seating margins.
About the balance between the pricing and commodity pressures and the launch costs in terms of the margin performance there and if there's any different tenor given the volatilities and the commodities given the OEMs looking maybe not as much growth and perhaps coming after the suppliers again has there been any change in tenor in the discussions you've had with the OEMs? And is there anything different in the kind of pricing commodity discussions one way or another around seating? No.
It's pretty consistent.
Obviously our customers sell a consumer product and it's a consumer product that really is price sensitive in many ways.
So they're constantly looking to reduce cost and improve their pricing.
And from that standpoint the biggest obviously component of their cost is the materials that they buy.
From our standpoint the pricing pressures are intense.
That's what this industry is.
It actually plays in many ways into our strength because we have the ability to not only make the components and all the components but actually engineer the design of the major products we're in seating electrical distribution.
And so we look to try to get the cost out and it actually plays in our benefit.
Commodities have been sustained in many ways at a relatively high level even though we've seen a recent pullback.
They do enter the productivity discussion because most of the productivity or pricing discussions focus on a cost model and trying to get to that optimum cost.
Obviously you're expected to be the most efficient producer.
In the same token they understand the raw material cost.
So I think it's a burden for the entire supply chain and including the customers it does enter into the discussion.
No it has not in any way soften the pressure so to speak.
I think it is part of the dialogue.
As far as launch costs launch costs are our responsibility.
That's the cost of doing business and it's an area where historically Lear's been very very good at.
And we need to just get back to being good at it.
Jason I don't know if you can add some color on the breakdown of how it kind of -- what our assumptions are with the remainder of the guidance.
All right.
Well pricing we still got at about 2% is what we've seen historically.
We haven't really seen a change in that from the prior guidance to where we're at today.
Launch cost we have increased by about $20 million.
We originally expected $90 million in launch cost this year.
We're now at about $110 million so we're up about $10 million in the third quarter and we see that same $10 million again in the fourth quarter.
Commodity cost we're seeing it's a headwind of about $60 million for the year.
We hadn't provided any guidance in the second quarter call on that.
But that's roughly in line with the second quarter although it's pulled back a little bit and capital [ph] sits a couple million on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the vertical integration I guess someone touched on it earlier but could you maybe describe where you think you are in vertical integration versus your major competitor after they digest the acquisition that they've made in Europe? I don't really know where we're at versus them but I'll tell you where we're looking to invest Brian.
I haven't really studied Johnson Controls to tell you exactly where they're at.
I'd like to not compare it.
But I will tell you what we're looking to do.
From our standpoint I think the emerging markets has the ability to provide the opportunity to invest and get the right returns and better quality in things like mechanisms foam and possibly even fabric.
We're pretty mature in our vertical integration in North America and I like where we're at in Europe although I think there might be some modest opportunities to improve on the mechanisms.
We're very vertically integrated on the cut-and-sew in both of those major markets.
We have a great connectors business in Europe.
I'd like to see that expanded into Asia.
And I think that's an opportunity for vertical integration as well.
So from our standpoint it's really more about the emerging markets and vertical integration in the emerging markets.
South America as well we've made a push there on mechanisms as well as electrical distribution and I'd expect that to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Aditya Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Well I have one housekeeping first.
The EPS guidance that you guys have provided that does not assume any more buybacks.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the more longer-term question I have is Matt can you comment a little bit about the backlog? Do you see any risk for your next years' backlog number given that Europe is kind of slowing down now and the expectations for Europe would have changed versus the time that you gave that backlog earlier this year? Yes not a material risk at all.
I mean obviously it comes down to volume and what they produce and as always business is dynamic.
Sometimes programs are extended or programs are pulled ahead or delayed but I don't really see a material risk to the backlog number.
Research Division</strong> So in a way does that mean that you are not seeing any kind of program or launch delays at the OEMs as of now? No not as of now.
But typically what will happen is if they do delay a launch we'll extend the model that precedes it.
So usually if there is a change either up or down it's pretty modest.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> You commented briefly on the civil investigation.
Is there any update on the criminal investigation? Have you been contacted by the Department of Justice? I think further I think you mentioned that it was in February of 2010 that they reached out for information.
Let's be clear about that.
We have not been contacted by the U.S.
Department of Justice or the FBI here.
What you're referring to about the February 2010 investigation is the European Commission Investigation that we've talked about previously.
And there we were asked for information by the European antitrust authorities.
We've cooperated fully but we've not heard more from them on that.
And as far as now they have not made any further public statements about where they stand in the process.
It's not possible for us to determine or find out from the European authorities where they are in the process and whether they were asking Lear for information simply as a source of information or someone they're investigating.
But the new cases that were referenced earlier the civil lawsuits are lawsuits here in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean from the criminal type there has been really no new update over the last quarter? I'm sorry you broke up a little bit.
Can you repeat your question Colin? Research Division</strong> For the criminal type of investigation that there is -- there hasn't been any change since the last quarter? That's correct.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the commodity outlook it's -- I think that you said it was $15 million in this quarter.
Is it about the same next quarter? I think that's about $60 million for the full year.
And when -- given the quantities have come down a bit I mean will that be more of a 2012 benefit if they stay at these levels? Well in the case of copper we are going to see a benefit from the third to the fourth quarter.
It's $2 million to $3 million is what we would expect.
If copper remains lower then we would expect to see a further tailwind into 2012.
It seems on the commodities as a whole it seems to ebb and flow with the general consensus of the health of the economy.
So if we start producing you'll probably see commodities run up.
But other than that we probably don't want to say a whole lot about '12 Colin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean sequentially commodities would be a slight -- if they stay at these levels a slight benefit but not material...
Yes it's a slight benefit but part of it too as we started seeing a run-up in the fourth quarter of last year.
So on a year-over-year basis it's probably down slightly but it's not -- I wouldn't expect a big tailwind.
Research Division</strong> And how about the cadence of launches how do they compare to -- from Q3 to Q4? Are they about the same or does that start to get a little bit better into Q4? It's pretty flat from the third to the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just one last one.
I mean with the UAW contract being ratified it sounds like they're pushing for more jobs.
Do you see any change in the view of in-sourcing of the automakers or do you still think -- do you see any risks there at all or...
No not really.
From our standpoint making each seat or wire harness from that standpoint is a skill that requires not only the ability to design it but also to coordinate the -- all the components being delivered to your facility on time.
And then with an hour or 2 window assembled into a seat and delivered on time.
So it's that skill set.
Plus it's just the reality of the floor space.
A lot of these facilities do not have the floor space to do it.
So I don't think it's a major push.
But one thing I'll remind everybody on the call is with Lear we've had a long and great relationship with the UAW.
We don't have a blanket agreement.
Each facility has its own agreement and we work with them to find opportunities to remain competitive.
So from our standpoint really there's no change at all.
And your last question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm going to break an unwritten rule and be the third or fourth guy to ask on a similar question rather than taking it off-line.
But the reason I ask I mean with stock down almost 10% here intraday.
The seating margins so the second quarter of year-over-year margin compression and the items you tick through product launches I mean product launches are sort of cost of success.
Materials always seem to be an industry pressure point and price reductions never seem to go away.
So are there specific actions that you can take internally to sort of control your own destiny to get back to that targeted 7% to 8% type margin level within a quarter or 2? Or are the levels that we're at right now sort of the new normal if we want to call it that until volumes start to really improve? No I think you're right.
I don't think we were as crisp as we would like on the launch cost.
And I think from our standpoint we're looking at trying to put processes in place on the front-end to ensure that we're cleaner in the future.
Longer term we still believe that the margin in this business is between 7% and 8% and I think we'll finish this year.
Year-to-date we're already at 7.5%.
We think that's the longer-term rate.
Now we need to always look to do things better and that includes the efficiencies of our launches the efficiencies of our operations including our administrative processes.
So no it's not the new normal.
It's not the new normal.
We need to just get better at launching.
Well if that's the last question first off I'd like to compliment Jason on an outstanding job and all the hard work with him and the finance team.
You seem to be much better than the previous CFO.
Congratulations.
And I want to thank all of the folks from Lear and the hard working team from Lear for having another outstanding quarter.
Thank you for your efforts.
And with that I'll see you later.
Bye-bye.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sara and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Lowenfeld you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sara.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jason Cardew Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the last slide of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #2 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company overview.
Next Jason Cardew will review our fourth quarter and full-year financial results and full-year 2011 outlook.
Then Matt will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
We finished 2011 with another quarter of improved operating performance.
Sales and earnings increased at a faster pace than the industry production and we achieved our 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in core operating earnings led by our growing electrical business.
We generated $461 million of free cash flow in 2011 and finished the year with cash of $1.8 billion.
Our liquidity was further improved in June when we increased our revolving line of credit to $500 million.
The major credit rating agencies acknowledged the improvement in our operating performance and balance sheet with rating upgrades during the year.
In addition to investing in the business we initiated a share repurchase and dividend program in 2011.
During the year we returned $330 million to our shareholders through these combined efforts.
Slide #4 shows our 2011 consolidated sales by region and customer.
In addition we have $1.3 billion in sales at our core nonconsolidated joint ventures which further diversifies our sales profile.
We will provide further detail on the next few slides.
As shown on Slide #5 our sales in China Brazil India and Russia have grown significantly over the past several years from $1 billion in 2007 to $2.4 billion in 2011.
This represents an annual growth rate of 25% versus industry growth in these markets of 17%.
Lear's total sales in China including nonconsolidated sales of approximately $800 million are $2.1 billion.
Since 2007 total sales in China including nonconsolidated joint ventures have almost tripled.
Slide #6 provides a summary of our 15 nonconsolidated joint ventures.
We have 13 core nonconsolidated joint ventures 10 of which are located in Asia.
We consider our 23% stake in International Automotive Components or IAC to be non-core.
We utilized joint ventures largely in emerging markets to gain access to nontraditional customers and to facilitate further diversification of our business.
We also believe these joint ventures provide a platform for growth.
Our joint ventures are profitable and we expect them to continue to grow.
Slide #7 profiles our turnaround in Electrical Power Management segment.
Several key drivers enabled this business to increase properly by over $250 million since 2009.
In 2009 the Electrical Power Management segment wasn't profitable.
Over the past several years we have invested approximately $300 million to improve our footprint.
We have also made incremental investments in high-powered technologies rationalized certain non-core product lines and improved our overall competitiveness.
As a result our sales in this segment grew faster than the overall industry.
We expect continued positive momentum as we launch $1.1 billion in new business through 2014.
Slide #8 details our 3-year backlog which is unchanged from what we reported at the auto show last month.
As a reminder our backlog only includes new awarded programs over a 3-year period net of loss programs or business that is rolling off.
We do not include pursued or high-confidence business or nonconsolidated business.
The 3-year sales backlog covering the 2012 to 2014 period stands at $1.8 billion with approximately 16% in EPMS and 40% in Seating.
We believe there are additional sourcing opportunities especially in 2014 which will provide further opportunity to increase our business and further diversify our sales.
Slide #9 focuses on the key elements of our strategies.
We believe we're well positioned in both of our business segments and we have the product expertise global reach and financial resources to grow our business.
Our primary focus remains on serving our customers to ensure we remain the supplier of choice.
We continue to invest in the emerging markets and expand our low-cost component capabilities to further improve value and quality for our customers.
We are evaluating certain niche acquisitions that will complement our present product offering facilitate diversification of our sales and possibly add scale in our Electrical segment with particular attention to components for both product segments.
No transformational acquisitions are needed or planned.
In addition to investing in our core businesses in 2011 we initiated a share repurchase and dividend program to return cash to our shareholders.
Going forward we plan to return cash to shareholders on a consistent basis while at the same time continue to invest in our core businesses.
We plan to do this while maintaining a strong balance sheet with investment-grade metrics.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jason who will take you through our financial results and our outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide #11 provides financial highlights for the fourth quarter.
Global vehicle production was up 1% reflecting double-digit increases in North America and Japan largely offset by production decreases in most other major automotive markets in the world.
Lear sales were $3.5 billion up 11% from a year ago reflecting primarily our strong sales backlog and increased production in Lear platforms.
Core operating earnings were $176 million up 17% from a year ago.
The increase in earnings reflects higher sales as well as operating performance improvements partially offset by customer pricing and higher cost for product development and launches.
We generated $192 million of free cash flow during the quarter and finished the quarter with cash of $1.8 billion.
Our reported EPS was $1.03 per share.
Reported earnings per share decreased from 2010 reflecting higher restructuring costs and other special items which offset the impact of improved core operating earnings and lower tax expense.
On the next 2 slides I'll cover our fourth quarter results in more detail.
Slide #12 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In the quarter global vehicle production was 19.3 million units up 1% from 2010.
However production was down in Europe as well as in our key emerging markets China Brazil and India.
For the full year global vehicle production was a record 74.8 million units up 3% from 2010.
Slide #13 provides a more detailed summary of our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011.
In the fourth quarter pretax income before interest and other was $102 million down $24 million from a year ago reflecting higher restructuring costs and other special items.
I'll provide more detail on these charges on the next slide.
For the full year pretax income before interest and other was $680 million up $141 million or 26%.
During the quarter we recognized $47 million in one-time tax benefits related primarily to the release of valuation allowances in 3 European countries.
For the full year taxes were $69 million for an effective rate of 11% which includes $70 million in one-time tax benefits.
Net income was $107 million in the fourth quarter down $11 million from a year ago.
Weighted average diluted shares in the fourth quarter were 103.9 million 4.5 million lower than 2010 primarily reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program.
For the full year net income was $541 million up $102 million from a year ago and diluted EPS was $5.08 an increase of 25%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 3.8% in the fourth quarter compared with 3.2% a year ago.
The higher SG&amp;A primarily reflects higher engineering spending.
Going forward we expect SG&amp;A as a percent of sales to run in the mid-3% range.
For the full year SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 3.4% down from 2010.
Interest expense was $15 million in the fourth quarter up $4 million primarily reflecting expenses related to the settlement of an indirect tax [indiscernible].
Slide #14 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our fourth quarter results.
Our reported pretax income before interest and other expense was $102 million.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $57 million of restructuring costs primarily reflecting a plant closure and headcount reductions in Europe as well as pension plan windup cost at a previously closed facility.
On the last day of the third quarter we experienced a fire at one of our European component facilities.
The facility was destroyed but thankfully no one was injured and our team did an outstanding job making sure our customers' requirements were met.
Included in special items is a charge of $10.6 million which reflects cost incurred net of insurance recovery received today.
We expect to incur additional costs related to this fire in 2012.
We're working closely with our insurance partners and we expect to receive full recovery.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring costs and special items we had core operating earnings of $176 million an increase of $26 million or 17% compared with a year ago.
Excluding the benefit from one-time tax items discussed earlier adjusted tax expense was $26 million for an effective rate of about 16%.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the fourth quarter was $131 million and adjusted EPS was $1.26 up 6% from 2010.
Slide #15 shows the trend of our core operating margins which improved for the second year in a row in 2011.
The company margins increased to 5% in the fourth quarter up from 4.7% in 2010.
For the full year margins increased to 5.6% from 5.2%.
Slide #16 provides additional detail on our fourth quarter and full-year segment margin performance.
In Seating margins in the fourth quarter were 6.5% down 50 basis points from 2010 primarily reflecting higher product development and launch costs partially offset by improved operating performance net of selling price reductions.
For the full year Seating margins were 7.2% down 30 basis points from 2010.
Increased backlog and launch activity during 2011 drove year-over-year increases in product development and launch cost.
Commodity cost inflation also impacted our results in 2011.
These factors were partially offset by improved production in key platforms new business and operating efficiencies net of selling price reductions.
In Electrical our margins increased compared to 2010 for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Please turn to Slide #17.
We generated $192 million of free cash flow on the fourth quarter and $461 million for the full year compared to our prior free cash flow guidance of $435 million cash flow improved by about $25 million primarily reflecting the timing of cash payments related to restructuring actions.
The cash payments related to these actions will be made in the first quarter of 2012.
Slide #18 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 2.1 million shares of stock at an average price of about $40 per share for a total of $85 million.
During 2011 we repurchased $279 million of stock.
Last month we announced a $300 million increase to our share repurchase authorization.
Taking into account this increase we now have $421 million available under the repurchase authorization which expires in February 2014.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital prevailing financial and market conditions and certain other factors.
Total cash returned to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends during 2011 was $330 million.
Please turn to Slide #19 for an update on our global tax attributes which we estimate to be in excess of $1.1 billion.
Most of the tax attributes have not been recognized as an asset on our financial statements.
The $1.1 billion of total tax attributes can be used to offset approximately $3.6 billion of future taxable income.
The vast majority of our tax attributes either have no expiration date or a 20-year life providing the company with ample opportunity to realize these benefits.
We've been profitable in the United States for the past 2 years and based on our current outlook expect to remain profitable in 2012.
As a result we're planning to remove a significant portion of the valuation allowance recorded to offset our deferred tax assets in the U.S.
by the end of the year.
The reversal of the valuation allowance will increase deferred tax assets and reduce income tax expense by approximately $800 million.
After the release of the U.S.
valuation allowance our effective tax rate should normalize at around 30%.
However for the next several years we expect our cash tax rate to remain in the 15% to 20% range reflecting the benefit of our global tax attributes.
Slide #21 summarizes the major assumptions in our 2012 outlook.
Our outlook is unchanged from what we announced at the Detroit Auto Show in January 11.
Our 2012 outlook is based on global vehicle production of 79.3 million units up 6% from 2011.
Anticipated recovery at the Japanese OEMs will drive much of the production increase forecasted in North America.
Our outlook is based on the assumption that production for the Domestic Three will decline by approximately 1% in 2012.
Slide #22 summarizes our 2012 financial outlook.
We're projecting sales of $13.85 billion to $14.35 billion in 2012.
We expect sales to stay relatively flat year-over-year reflecting increases from our sales backlog offset by lower European production the negative impact of foreign exchange selling price reductions and platform mix.
2012 core operating earnings are projected in the range of $740 million to $790 million.
I will highlight the key drivers impacting margins in our operating segments on the next slide.
Tax expense is estimated to be $150 million to $170 million resulting in an effective tax rate of approximately 23%.
The effective rate has increased from 2011 reflecting primarily the elimination of valuation allowances in certain European countries.
Our cash taxes for 2012 should be approximately $125 million an increase of $45 million from 2011.
As we have indicated previously we anticipate that operational restructuring costs will return to more normal levels.
In 2012 we are forecasting restructuring expense of about $40 million which is a decrease of approximately $30 million from 2011.
The vast majority of the restructuring is behind us.
However cash restructuring will increase by approximately $10 million from last year reflecting the carryover from 2011 that I mentioned earlier.
Capital expenditures are forecast to increase in 2012 to approximately $425 million.
The increase reflects primarily investment in support of our strong sales backlog as well as additional investment and component capabilities in emerging markets.
Free cash flow is projected at $275 million down from 2011 reflecting a higher capital spending higher cash taxes and the cash impact to restructuring actions.
Slide #23 provides additional detail on our segment margins.
In Seating we are projecting full-year segment margins in the 6.5% to 7% range down from 7.2% in 2011.
In the first half of 2012 margins will be disproportionately impacted by elevated launch costs and manufacturing inefficiencies related to recently launched programs as well as the implementation of customer price reductions.
We expect margins to increase throughout the year as performance improvements are implemented and other cost reduction actions are taken to offset customer price reductions.
Key drivers of the year-over-year change in Seating margins include negative platform mix and higher commodity and product development costs.
We expect this to be partially offset by new business operating performance net of price reductions lower launch costs and the positive impact of foreign exchange.
In Electrical we are projecting full-year segment margins in the 6.5% to 7% range up from 5.9% in 2011.
We expect Electrical margins to start 2012 relatively flat for the fourth quarter and improve over the course of the year.
Key drivers for the year-over-year improvement in Electrical margins include the benefit from new business and operating performance which we expect will more than offset selling price reductions.
These positive factors are expected to be partially offset by higher product development and launch costs as well as native platform mix.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Thanks Jason great job.
As we begin 2012 there are some macroeconomic headwinds that we're facing particularly in Europe.
Despite the near-term uncertainty based on our present production assumptions we remain comfortable with the guidance we announced last month at the Detroit Auto Show.
Looking at our 2 operating segments we expect our Electrical business will continue its trend of improving sales and margin.
As Jason mentioned we expect that our Seating margins will moderate in the first part of the year before improving in the second half of 2012.
Our competitive market position as well as our balance sheet will provide further opportunities to drive growth and create value as we invest in our core businesses to increase profit and improve our competitive position.
In closing I want to thank the Lear team for their continued hard work and dedication.
2012 will be another year of challenges and I am confident with your support that we will continue to be successful.
With that we will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of things.
First of all maybe you could just touch on the -- your North American sales grew pretty strongly in the quarter which is I guess a bit surprising considering that in the quarter production the strength in North American production was disproportionately the Japanese and Chrysler.
Was there anything unusual with respect to launch activity in the quarter in North America? No I don't think there was.
We had a backlog that was coming onboard.
Again we don't necessarily as you know Rod sell to the industry overall.
We sell at a particular mix.
We're seeing continued strength in some of our production numbers on the cars that we're on.
Nissan for instance has been a nice book of business for us.
Jason [ph] do you have any light on what might’ve driven that beyond backlog? It really was a backlog story.
In North America we had $159 million of backlog that rolled on in our Seating business in the fourth quarter and about $15 million in Electrical as well.
And Chrysler was a portion of that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just 2 other things.
One is noticed that you didn't change your European forecast.
It's pretty much the same as what you had 4 weeks ago in Detroit.
IHS did lower there forecast for Europe.
So is there anything that you're looking at that's maybe specific to your customer mix that's driving this? And then lastly click a few of your Japanese competitors the caretses [ph] in electrical have been kind of out in the headlines lately with some fines on these investigations and haven't seen Lear in any of those headlines.
I'm wondering whether we should be able to interpret that as a positive maybe indirectly that you're not involved or maybe that -- and also wanted to know whether that's maybe opening your opportunity set with some of the Japanese customers? Well let me take the lead on these questions and I'm going to go the go to the  team for some additional data and support Rod.
Starting off on the European we are aware that IHS has brought to production assumptions down for Europe in their January 15 release.
We're still working through the details on that.
From our standpoint the market is really kind of a tale of two cities with the premium brands and luxury brands in the higher end market being at half [ph] showing some sign of resiliency and then the AV platforms showing some weakness.
Our production assumptions however did zoom on the platforms that we were on that there was some pullback.
I mean Jason if you'd break it down from a customer standpoint what were some of the key assumptions that we had in our [indiscernible]? Yes if you look at -- we are 4 down about 10% year-over-year if...
We're talking about Europe Rod.
In Europe and Fiat down about 8% Opel down 11%.
So some of the customers were -- we have a little more vulnerability to the uncertainty in Europe the BMC [ph] segments.
We already had a pretty significant reduction in production volumes assumed in Europe in 2012.
So we had the market down 800 000 units overall and then we've got the luxury brands relatively flat.
Audi BMW and Daimler are relatively stable year-over-year.
So we think we've captured a lot of that risk and uncertainty in the initial assumptions that we made.
And we're still monitoring it keeping an eye on it.
Nothing at this point that we're seeing would tell us that our production assumptions at this point are incorrect in Europe Rod.
On your second part of the question regarding the Yazaki and Denso press release in Justice Department fine that were announced earlier this week.
Before I get into the specifics of the case I'll ask Terry Larkin our General Counsel to talk about the specifics.
Our business in this segment is growing and it's growing faster than the market overall and we are continuing gaining share.
We're gaining share in a lot of different places from a lot of different competitors.
It's hard to say whether the case has a lot to do with it.
My instincts tell me no.
I'd like to think that there will be a benefit to Lear Corporation as result of the disclosure earlier this week but at this point I just think we're winning it based on the merits of our competitiveness.
As far as our involvement in the review of the antitrust Terry do you have any update you can provide Rod and the team? Yes.
The DOJ [ph] did announce these pleas in the automotive electrical component business this past week.
These are we believe related to the ones that they announced last fall involved in Furukawa.
What we can tell you is that Lear has not been the subject of any DOJ proceeding in this matter.
So we're not directly involved and we don't know more about it because we're not involved then what we read in the criminal information in the press releases that the DOJ has issued on it.
We know that there are an ever increasing and broader group of components being subjected to inquiry.
This criminal proceeding though is different than the civil antitrust class actions involving price fix and that we've commented upon earlier I just want to make sure we're all clear about that.
The status on those is that Lear has had roughly 40 separate lawsuits filed against it.
There was a hearing before the judicial panel on multi-district litigation just last week at which various of the plaintiffs have asked that the cases be consolidated into one case.
We expect that it's likely to occur.
That court has -- the panel has it under advisement and we expect to hear in the next several weeks on that.
As you know in the past we've said and we continue to maintain that we don't believe that we've violated any antitrust laws in those proceedings either.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the Seating margin guidance for next year 6.5% to 7% -- taking into consideration that's a full-year average.
Do I start at sort of the low end of that range and then work up to the high end of the range as the year progresses? Or do you think the variance is going to be wider than that over the course of the year? I think Peter I think the variance is going to be wider than that especially in the first half of the year where we'll start I think outside of the 6.5% range on the low side probably in the low 6% ballpark 6% to 6.5% something like that.
And then towards the high end of the range in the back half of the year for the average.
I think some of the drivers that we're seeing coming out is again a very active launch calendar and some the inefficiencies associated with that as well as the need to immediately fund your customer concession price cost downs in the beginning of the year as we work for offsets towards that.
So it'll start off slow and then ramp up towards the target in the back half of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question.
But what I think through the margin sensitivity to further declines in volumes in Europe is it fair to think about this conceptually this way? That as industry volumes decline in Europe your losing volume just fairly high incrementals because there’re more mature platforms for you and you're sort of backfilling that with new volumes out of the sales backlog that might initially be at lower incremental margins because of launch costs and other items.
Is that a reasonable way to conceptually thinking about it? Yes overall.
Overall I would say that is true.
Let me try to put some bookends around it though to help you a little bit more.
The content for vehicle on average in Europe for Lear would be about $300 theoretical $300 per unit.
Now again it depends as much as anything on which platform goes down and how they take the volume out of the system and whether you're able to adjust your cost structure accordingly.
But if you use a content of about $300 I think that's about the average.
The downward conversion in the short term will be roughly around 15% again cautioning that it depends on the particular car line.
From a backlog perspective usually backlog comes on at a rate lower than that while you work it up through efficiencies and value engineering propositions.
But incrementally typically at about a 10% margin in a backlog.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of items.
The fourth quarter margin in Seating I'm just trying to get a feel for what some of the other factors are.
You highlighted roughly $10 million in a couple of different categories but even after I back that stuff out it still looks like the contribution was a little bit thin.
Is there anything else weighing on the results there? Is it mix? Is it materials? Is it over launches that were going on? It always is a product of what you're making in the quarter because each kind of platform has its own kind of financial DNA or financial template.
So it depends as much as anything on the mix of the products.
Jase what are some of the drivers in that segment besides that that could help Chris get to the...
It really was launch and development costs were the main headwind.
Yes we were up about $200 million in sales and that all came through the backlog.
So that converts at around 10% normally and they may have come in at $1 million or $2 million below that but that was offset by the higher launch and development costs.
Everything else sort of nets out year-over-year customer pricing was offset by our performance actions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you touched on this a little bit but maybe you could give us dome more detail of the rough breakdown for you in Europe.
How much of your business in Europe is BMW? How much is Fiat et cetera? I don't think we've gotten into that level of specificity on the breakdown.
BMW is obviously pretty important.
We have talked about BMW overall [indiscernible] the disclosures Jase [indiscernible].
Yes.
Overall BMW is about 11% 12% of our sales.
That's worldwide.
Globally yes.
In Europe it's a little bit higher percentage than that.
Yes it's the percentage of sales -- of European sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you're not willing to a give more detailed breakdown? I think what we're trying to avoid because a lot of this too is the import business or export business out of Germany from our standpoint.
So if we gave you the production it wouldn't necessarily tie to the sales.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then just one housekeeping item.
You mentioned the tax rate.
You're going to have to release that valuation allowance at some point in 2012.
Is that like a Q4 event? Or when should we start dialing in the 30% rate? I'll tell you that the drivers on when we release it as the profitability of our U.S.
segment mainly and from our standpoint based on our guidance we'd expect this to be about the third year.
And Bill doesn't typically take about -- I'm looking at Bill McLaughlin our head of tax take about 3 years in order to justify releasing it.
Yes that's right Matt.
And then to the rest of his question what does that do to our effective rate? Well we were thinking that it would -- the valuation offset would probably come off at some point in the back half of the year and then at that point our effective rate should normalize around 30%.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk about the Seating business.
Could you describe maybe sort of the next level down on the kind of pricing pressures? You mentioned that we’re well into first half.
Where they're coming from? Is it a particular type of OEM or type of program? And then what are things you're working on in terms of pushing back and maybe helping them achieve the cost reduction goal without de-contenting the vehicles or getting back to where some of the mass market makers where severed a decade ago with poorly contented cars and squeezed suppliers? Great it's a good question.
Normally on the average our pricing in this business is going to net out on a price down level at around 2% slightly higher in industry years where volume's up.
That being said each car line's a little bit different depending upon the amount of content that we control where it is to market and where it is to return on investment.
We look at a lot of ways.
We constantly look at our business on a return on investment basis.
Now we sell to a customer that has a product that's a consumer product obviously that's very dependent on price.
They're looking for ways to take costs out of their product and I think one of the benefits that Lear brings as a global supplier with the amount of depth that we have a vertical integration in our engineering capabilities the way to find them solutions to take cost out of the product without impacting the quality and without impacting our margins.
So some of the things that we're doing were constantly benchmarked in best in class trying to develop alternative engineering designs that take cost out and looking at the value stream beyond the Tier 1s to find inefficiencies to help pass that along to our customers.
And so we're able to provide in many cases savings well in excess of a 2% that you'll see topside from our revenues or from our P&amp;L.
Some of the things that we'll do is streamlining the design using lighter weight materials trying to get the same type of performance in a seat or a structural electrical distribution system using less material trying to identify potential inefficiencies in the sub tiers as it relates to logistics.
Things of that nature Brian are what we attack so that at the end of the day the customer gets and the end consumer gets a seat that is best in class or electrical distribution system that performs additional electrical content with less cost.
Research Division</strong> And JCS flag [ph] having to put several hundred quality-control Black Belts particularly in the Europe to handle launch issues is that something you're seeing in terms of step up in complexity? Or is that an issue unique to a competitor? Well I think that every business uses some form of lean combined with Black Belts to take variation and efficiency gains out of their facilities and we're no different.
Complexity in a launch is usually driven by the reach of it.
One of the values I think Lear brings is our global footprint and as customers are going to these global launches these launches are becoming very complex because you're managing in many cases multiple regions of the world in many cases emerging markets.
That's what we do.
I don't see a particular demand or need for a Black Belt per se although we do use Black Belt to try to eliminate the variation and improve our quality.
But the business is challenging and you can see from the elevated launch costs that we've included in our Seating segment over the last several quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question for Terry first just on these antitrust inquiries and what you're facing.
I just want to make sure this is clear at least for me.
The stuff that Yazaki and the other suppliers are facing are regulator-driven inquiries and accusations and ultimately some fines here.
But what you're facing is suits that are being brought up by lawyers on behalf of consumers that they overpaid for their cars which as I'm looking back at seats and your electronics business as being overpriced for the automakers.
I'm just trying to make sure that we've got that straight.
I mean these are consumer lawyer-driven inquiries as opposed to regulator inquiries is that correct? That is correct.
That's a very important distinction.
Right? What we're saying is that we have not been subjected to any criminal proceedings by the Department of Justice.
We do have these civil complaints alleging that there has been price fixing and therefore excessive pricing on products that were sold to customers by us.
And then later those customers of ours sold to retail consumers.
And in those cases Lear is not alone being a defendant in those.
There are virtually all the major electrical wire harness suppliers in the United States are parties to those suits as well.
And it's not an uncommon thing once you have these criminal complaints come down that civil complaints get filed.
But they're 2 very distinct separate types of proceedings.
And the civil cases as I've mentioned while they're many in number will likely ultimately be consolidated into just one for at least the pretrial proceedings.
But you pick up on a very important point.
There’s a substantial difference between being party to the criminal proceedings and being party to civil cases.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then Matt second question is as we look at the distribution of cash to shareholders it looks like it was about 72% of free cash flow in 2011.
I know it's hard to commit to percentages directly of free cash flow being returned to shareholders but it looks like you probably based on your share buyback and your dividend policy right now would potentially be returning more than all of your free cash flow that you're forecasting for 2012 to shareholders.
Just curious is that a correct interpretation? And do you think you have some excess cash on the balance sheet in addition to the free cash flow you'll generate in 2012 that'll end up back with shareholders? What I would say is that we have about 2 years left on our authorization if not 2 years exactly.
I mean about $400 million of share buyback capabilities.
What I would do John is just probably take the 8 quarters remaining and divide it into the overall authorization for some planning purposes.
Research Division</strong> So 72% or 70% of free cash flow back to shareholders is a decent placeholder for us to use for shareholders to just...
No I wouldn't necessarily look at it that way.
I would just say from -- probably the proper way to do it and what we've been saying is we're going to return it on a consistent basis depending upon other uses of the cash and market conditions and whatnot.
What I would do for planning purposes is just take a quarterly run rate as opposed to percentage of the free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just sort of a follow-up on that and not to parse your words too much but you said on the acquisitions that a transformational acquisition would not be -- is not needed or planned.
But is it something that if it came up you would consider it if it was at a very attractive price? Absolutely.
We would consider it if it came up.
We don't see anything on the horizon that would work.
To us our philosophy is first and foremost to kind of balance growth risk and returns and make sure that we provide value to our shareholders taking that into consideration.
We also look at the same time at what do we need to do to ensure that we maintain or improve our position in the marketplace with our customers.
How do we remain and improve our competitiveness and provide value and improve quality? Because ultimately that creates value for our shareholders.
So I don't see it out there John.
I would love to do one significant acquisition that fixes the business or improves our profile.
I don't think it's out there.
I don't think we need it.
I think we can compete otherwise but if there was something out there that would improve our position with our customers and improve our ability to give balanced returns to our shareholders we would absolutely look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Aditya Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question on IAC.
Last year there were some talks about potentially taking the company public and then the markets turned in the wrong direction.
Is there any update that you guys have on that? No.
No real update.
I think you read the tea leaves correctly on the kind of the thought process on the kind of potential IPO.
What I can tell you is that asset for us is non-core.
We own roughly 23% of the IAC venture the European and North American venture that's recently been [indiscernible].
We would look to exit [ph] and monetize that investment.
We believe that global loss and the ownership team of a group of that business and the management team will be successful there.
They have a track record of success.
And they will be successful here as well.
But in the end we'd like just to monetize our stake and move forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I had another follow-up on T900 [ph] obviously there's a distinct thought process going on between what GM is saying and some of the other suppliers are saying versus what IHS is forecasting.
As you guys look at your schedule at least in the near term or where GM is hinting to where production could go what are your thoughts on that? Jase? Yes Adi we're looking at that.
If you look at the announced down weeks that GM was talking about as they prepare for the change over to the K2xx and you look at their production capacity in each facility and we think that they can very easily build between 950 000 and 1 million units in 2012.
We’ve used 960 000 in our outlook which is conservatively higher than what I just recently disclosed.
We've been in discussions with IHS.
We're trying to understand their thought process but what we think they've done is they've really looked at the capacity that GM had last year overlaid the down weeks and assumed that production would be down.
And that's not what we're hearing from GM.
That's not what we're seeing in releases.
The sales have been very strong in the platform.
Inventory levels are relatively low.
And so we're pretty comfortable with the 950 000 960 000 units.
Adi if they sell them they build them.
Your next question comes from the line of Himanshu Patel from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up questions.
Just the pressures in Europe right now do you think they create any opportunities to do any additional restructuring? Not really.
I don't think they do.
Our restructuring there is largely complete.
There's always things you'd like to do and maybe we'll try to do but it really comes back down to more just whether or not the financial justification makes sense or whether operationally you can execute them in the timeframe.
There may be some modest things we can do but I really Himanshu don't think that the pullback will create additional restructuring opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just so we sort of understand the operating leverage on the T900 [ph] does that platform have a notably different level of vertical integration than sort of your average platform? Yes on the 900 again what kind of impacts the conversion rates on any vehicle is number one the size of the vehicles.
I mean 3 rows of seats is better than 2 seats or 2 rows.
If it's a highly contented electrical content electronic content full power leather seats thats usually adds to the value of the seats.
And if we're making that content that usually impacts the conversion rate both up and down.
Something like the 900 one it's a high running program obviously with the amount of units that go through.
And also there's a fair bit of content there's a fair bit of Lear content on it so it would convert up and down at the higher end of our typical conversion rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to Chris's question on Slide 4 where you give a very useful customer breakdown.
Can you just directionally tell us how much of the GM and Ford slivers are Europe-related? I really want to get out of geographic breakdowns by customer mix because of the way that they cross over the lines in imported transfers.
And I don't want to get into another slice of the disclosure Himanshu.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I just had a couple of questions on EPMS actually if we could move the conversation there? It looks like contribution margins this quarter were about 15% and maybe 20% if you sort of strip out the development costs.
So I was wondering is that sort of about the right run rate going forward once you get that to scale and volume? Or can the contribution margins go get higher in another segment? I would tell you that overall while you'll see that type of conversion rate on a year-over-year or a quarter there is a natural baffle in the business on returns.
In this segment I think it's really no different between 7% and 8% and it really comes down to 2 things.
At that rate temporary return on our investment both our engineering and our assets at a rate that exceeds our cost of capital and we believe we can.
And number 2 it's still a competitive marketplace.
And so there's a natural kind of market baffle when you get up into these type of margin and performance levels that I think the marketplace will bring you back out into that range.
So the first response is yes.
It could happen on the incremental sales ops if you're doing more of a platform and you're on a platform that's running well and you have an efficient manufacturing process.
And yes you can convert it back on a short term but longer term it'll balance back out into 7% or 8%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally I know in your guidance page you point to copper lower but I didn't see it listed as sort of a margin benefit in EPMS for next year.
Can you just remind us how much copper you use and if there is a benefit that you've calculated for 2012? Sure.
And we use about 125 million pounds of copper at this production rate and about 20% of that is our exposure.
The balances are on an indexing agreement with customers and so we have factored in a benefit about a $0.50 reduction on that controllable by about $10 million $11 million year-over-year.
And that's been offset by some commodity pressures in other areas of the Electrical segment resins and some of the components.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to delve into the 2012 revenue outlook.
You called out some mix headwinds in North America.
I was hoping you can share what you're assuming for mix and the rest of the regions particularly Europe and perhaps the BRIC countries excluding the backlogs.
So just how you're looking at Lear's revenue in those regions relative to industry production? Sure.
In Europe we'd see our revenue changing pretty consistently with the market overall with the C and B [ph] segments down significantly more than the 5% reduction overall and then the luxury brands sort of compensating for that and bringing it back in line with that 5% industry change.
In South America our change year-over-year is very similar to the market as well.
We had a strong backlog that's rolling on in South America that's helping us in that region.
And in Asia our changes are very similar to the market overall.
Not a real big mix exposure in the other regions.
The mix issue that we have is more centered around North America.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on Slide 6 I appreciate the new disclosure on the JV incomes.
Are you collecting dividends from the Asian joint ventures? And it looks like for 2012 you're modeling about a neutral other expense.
So what are some of the other offsets to that joint venture income coming in 2012 to get you to that neutral implied in your guidance? We do enjoy dividends from our joint venture.
Each one is slightly different.
We've been able to fund a lot of our growth in Asia through the dividends.
We have a pretty efficient cash modeling and cash structure that allows us to -- if you use the cash earns and many of these joint ventures to expand the growth and apply to other kind of investment opportunities.
The second part of the question was on the other? Research Division</strong> Yes it looks like you're just...
Obviously it's just kind of getting a catch on a lot different things that go through there.
Jase what else can you help...
So we have equity earnings of about $25 million and that's offset by state multiple taxes FX and other miscellaneous expenses.
So we do have it at 0 overall.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a quick housekeeping.
I noticed the D&amp;A [ph] in the quarter $57 million a little bit light.
Anything going on there? Or is that just kind of normal? Yes it came down from the third quarter to the fourth quarter primarily because we had some assets in our terminals and connectors business that were fully depreciated at the end of the third quarter.
And so we'll see that benefit continue into 2012 but then it's offset by the big step-up we have in capital spending in that segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Stover from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
I do have some clarification though.
The first question is on the pricing discussion Matt.
2% sort of the normal number.
The implicit guidance for 2012 was in line with that normal performance? Or is it worse? It's in line.
I mean it's a net 2% number.
We're able to provide benefits in many cases closer to 5% with engineering changes and some other things that we can do to help our customers get the cost down in their product.
The net number's about 2% and our guidance is pretty consistent with that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Good.
The other question I guess is I'm a little bit confused to the answer to the last question about mix.
I guess arithmetically if European production is going to be down and ANB [ph] segment is going to be down much worse than the average I would suppose then that your mix actually improves in Europe in 2012.
Would that be correct? You're saying that since we're higher on the luxury brand vehicles as a percentage? Yes.
C-Class plus you're going to be higher and their performance is going to be better than average.
You could look at it that way because we are seeing some stability in the C.
The Audi A6 the 3-Series BMWs and I think Jag is -- well Jag’s pretty consistent and Jag Land Rover.
You could say that.
Yes you could say that.
What we're trying to say I think what Jason mentioned was our sales impact is pretty consistent with the overall assumptions for Europe because our business base Matt pretty much reflects the business base in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you help me understand the launch costs a little bit better because I think your backlog is down for 2012 and overall from this point last year.
So I know there's an FX component to that but shouldn't [indiscernible] your launch cost should pretty much in line? Normally it does.
That's the biggest drivers backlog but you could be launching a lot of replacement business as well.
So it's not exactly that clean Ravi as far as just the number of backlog.
In any given year you're constantly doing mid-cycle enhancements for 2 quarters a new line layout or retraining of employees or expansion into other facilities for instance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's a way of implying that the mix of the new launches are a bit different.
Does that mean that if you're doing more complex launches that the margins are going to be a little different than what your typical backlog incrementals are as well? It could be yes.
They absolutely could be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also on the cash flow I think you did a good job of walking between why the free cash flow declines in 2012 versus 2011 but when you look out to 2013 and beyond I mean do you think you can get back up to $400 million level of cash? Or is the CapEx a little more sustainable and the cash taxes as well? Right.
I wanted to get away from a little bit from giving projections in '13.
But I will tell you that from a CapEx standpoint what we've been talking about is a little bit elevated CapEx as we take advantage of our balance sheet strength and the opportunity to kind of put some footprint into the emerging markets to facilitate our growth and kind of have an opportunity to provide value and get a nice return for that investment.
Cash taxes I think are really a function of a 1-year lag on your tax expense from a modeling perspective.
And again it all is driven by earnings and earnings are driven by production.
So I would work it that way but I'd like to stay away from giving a projection on '13 at this point.
And your last question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarifications.
In terms of the tax guidance I mean is that reflecting the 30% rate in the second half? Or will that tax guidance change once they allow it to...
I'm sorry Colin could you repeat the question? You broke up a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
Just clarification on the tax guidance.
If the valuation allowances reversed does the rate go up to 30% and that guidance changes? Or is that already reflecting the expectation that the valuation allowance will be reversed? Colin I'll start the answer and I'll turn it over to Bill McLaughlin.
We have not assumed in our guidance the reversal of that valuation allowance.
And so the 23% effective rate that we're using in the guidance does not reflect that reversal.
Bill anything? Yes that's right.
The 30% that we talked about would start in 2013.
And the 2012 guidance does reflect the fact that we did release several valuation allowances in Europe in 2011.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify that again if the valuation allowances released in the second half the rate won't go to 30% this year still it'll be next year? No.
Due to the way the accounting rules work we would basically still be at the 23% that we're guiding to for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay so using 23% is good for '12.
It probably goes up to something like 30% if it's reversed in the second half? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I want to understand the Seating margins why they're weak in the first half of the year.
I thought in the third quarter it sounded like it was related to challenges with launching products that were probably going to continue into the first half.
But from Slide 23 it looks like it's more of a mix commodity issue.
What really is the underlining margin issue for Seating? It's really the launch and the product development and it's also driven by the fact that on January 1 there's a whole litany of customer pricing that takes place Colin that you then need to work to find offsets for [indiscernible] working with your supply base your manufacturing facilities and the lean workshops and what have you and just working for solutions to offset the price downs.
So those are probably the 3 biggest drivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay so the issues that we found in the third quarter are kind of addressed already at the point? No I think in certain cases they're continuing.
We're still not as crisp as we would like on the launches and maybe say the manufacturing efficiencies of recently launched products because at some point it's not an launch anymore.
So we're still working through those issues to some extent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one.
The contributions are normally 15%.
I mean when we look at Europe is that the same? Or is that higher or lower than the average for the company? I would say that Europe usually comes in at about 15% and that's a little bit lower than the impact on North America for several reasons.
The biggest one being the level of vertical integration in Europe is typically a little bit less than you're going to see in North America so that usually drives a lower conversion rate [indiscernible].
That's the end of the questions.
At this point I think it's mainly the Lear team that remains on the phone.
I want to thank you for a very great job in 2011 and all the hard work and effort.
We have some headwinds in front of us with uncertainty in Europe but I know with dedication and working together we will win together in 2012.
So thank you very much.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters our Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the last slide of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #2 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company overview.
Next Jeff Vanneste will review our first quarter financial results and 2012 outlook.
Then Matt will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #3 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Thanks Ed.
We're off to a good start in 2012 with another quarter of solid financial performance.
We continue to receive customer and industry recognition and we recently announced an acquisition that we believe will further strengthen our Seating business.
Sales increased 4% to $3.6 billion in the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were up 6% in line with global production.
Core operating earnings were $195 million down 5% from a year ago but still one of our strongest quarters in the recent years.
Our Electrical business continued to benefit from greater scale and previous restructuring actions with sales up 6% and earnings up 21%.
We were honored last month to be named "Corporation of the Year" by General Motors and as Supplier of the Year for the 14th time.
Additionally last week we received an Automotive News PACE Award for our Solid State Smart Junction Box recognizing our industry-leading technology in this critical component.
In April we signed an agreement to acquire Guilford Mills a leading global provider of automobile and specialty fabrics.
I'll cover this acquisition in more detail on the next few slides.
We continue to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
During the quarter we announced an increase in both of these programs.
Slide #4 highlights the strategic benefits of our pending acquisition of Guilford Mills.
This acquisition is consistent with our strategy of selective vertical integration and expansion of our component capabilities.
Guilford is a leading global provider of fabric for seats headliners and other interior applications.
We believe Guilford will strengthen our existing industry-leading seat cover business by providing synergies through increased design and manufacturing expertise which will improve quality and enhance value to our customers.
We believe this acquisition will offer both Lear and Guilford strong customer relationships to increase sales across both businesses.
Guilford has a competitive footprint with manufacturing locations in the U.S.
and Europe as well as a joint venture in China.
They completed a major restructuring in their operations to improve efficiency and reduce their cost.
Lastly Guilford has a small specialty fabric business that produces multiple products for nonautomotive applications such as water filtration systems for Dow Chemical and General Electric.
Please turn to Slide #5.
We expect the Guilford transaction will close during the second quarter.
Last week we received regulatory approval for a transaction in the U.S.
and we're waiting to hear from European authorities.
The net purchase price is approximately $260 million subject to normal post-closing adjustments.
We will utilize cash on our balance sheet to fund the transaction.
Guilford has annual sales of approximately $400 million and its margins and other key financial metrics are consistent with our existing seat business.
With that I'll turn over I'll turn it over to Jeff Vanneste.
Jeff returns to Lear after 5 years as the CFO of International Automotive Components.
Prior to IAC Jeff spent the majority of his carrier at Lear in senior finance roles in U.S.
and in Europe and we are very pleased to have him back.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank Jason Cardew who's also with us today and who did an excellent job as our interim CFO.
And I'll turn it over to Jeff who will take you through the financial results and financial outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 7 provides financial highlights for the first quarter.
Global vehicle production was up 6% reflecting a 16% increase in North America and a 49% increase in Japan both of which were favorably impacted by increased production following last year's earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Vehicle production in Europe and China was down 6% and 2% respectively.
Lear sales were up -- were $3.6 billion up 4% from a year ago.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange primarily a lower euro Lear sales in the quarter were up 6% consistent with the change in global production.
Core operating earnings were $195 million down 5% from a year ago.
The decrease in earnings primarily reflects increased product and facility launch costs higher program development costs associated with the backlog and selling price reductions partially offset by increased sales and operating performance improvements.
Free cash flow was a use of $65 million in the quarter and we finished the quarter with cash at $1.6 billion.
Our reported EPS was $1.32 a share.
On the next few slides I'll cover our first quarter results in more detail.
Slide 8 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the first quarter.
In the quarter global vehicle production was 20.2 million units up 6% from 2011 and a record for the first quarter.
Excluding Japan global vehicle production was up less than 2%.
As we have mentioned on previous calls our annual sales in Japan are relatively modest at approximately $200 million.
Slide 9 shows our financial results for the first quarter of 2012.
As previously mentioned sales were up 4% to $3.6 billion.
In Europe adjusting for foreign exchange our sales were down 4% better than the industry production decline of 6%.
I will provide further detail about our European business later in the presentation.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other was $187 million down $12 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $13 million up $9 million primarily reflecting a refund of interest related to a favorable court ruling on a tax matter in the prior period.
Weighted average diluted shares in the first quarter were 101.9 million 6.3 million lower than 2011 reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program.
Slide 10 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our first quarter results.
As I just mentioned our reported pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $187 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring costs and special items primarily related to the Emergence Equity Grant and acquisition-related costs we had core operating earnings of $195 million.
We have 15 nonconsolidated joint ventures the majority of which are located in Asia or with Asian partners.
Earnings from these nonconsolidated joint ventures are reported as equity income on our financial statements.
In the first quarter equity income was $10 million an improvement of $6 million from a year ago.
Other expense in the first quarter includes income from special items of $1.6 million reflecting net insurance proceeds related to the previously reported fire at one of our European component facilities.
We will continue to incur costs related to this fire throughout 2012 and expect to receive full recovery from insurance providers.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the first quarter was $141 million and adjusted EPS was $1.38.
Slide 11 is a new slide we thought would be useful to provide more color on our European business.
Europe is our largest region representing approximately 40% of our total sales in 2011.
European sales represent a little under 40% of our global Seating business and about 50% of our global Electrical business.
Our business in Europe is well diversified and largely reflects the overall European market.
The business is also well balanced by customer and by vehicle segment.
On the left side of the page we've listed our 10 European -- top 10 European platforms based on total sales.
It's also important to note that a portion of our European production primarily the luxury brand is exported by our customers to other regions including North America and China.
Please turn to Slide 12 for a summary of our results for the Seating segment.
In Seating adjusted margins in the first quarter were 6.7% up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2011 but down 100 basis points from the first quarter of 2011.
The decrease in margin compared with the year ago reflects primarily increased product and facility launch costs and higher program development costs of approximately $15 million as well as selling price reductions which historically run at about 2% of sales.
These factors were partially offset by the addition of new business which typically converts at about 10% and operating performance improvements.
Please turn to Slide 13 where I'll provide more detail on some of the drivers impacting our Seating business.
Adjusted Seating margins in the first quarter of 6.7% benefited from stronger North American mix and the timing of commercial settlements.
In the first quarter our top 15 platforms in North America were up 18% versus industry growth in the region of 16%.
Our full year expectations for Seating margins remain unchanged in the 6.5% to 7% range.
However when we provided guidance at the beginning of the year we anticipated that Seating margins would be stronger in the back half of 2012.
As a result of stronger mix in North America and the timing of commercial settlements our current expectation is that the margin cadence will be consistent between the first half and the second half of the year.
For the remainder of the year we expect margins to benefit from lower launch costs and increased manufacturing efficiencies offset by platform mix commodity costs and program development costs.
Slide 14 summarizes the operating performance in our Electrical segment.
Financial results in this segment improved both sequentially as margins are up 20 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2011 and year-over-year with margins up 80 basis points as we continue to increase scale and benefit from the previous restructuring actions.
The year-over-year margin improvement reflects the impact of new business and lower commodity costs partially offset by higher product and facility launch costs.
We continue to forecast full year margins in this segment at 6.5% to 7% representing a third consecutive year of improvement.
Please turn to Slide 15.
Free cash flow was a use of $65 million in the first quarter primarily reflecting increased working capital related to normal seasonality and the launch of 3 new facilities cash payments related to restructuring actions initiated prior to 2012 and the timing of tooling and engineering recoveries.
Capital expenditures net of related insurance proceeds of $1 million were $69 million in the first quarter.
Slide 16 provides our quarterly update on our share repurchase program.
During the first quarter we repurchased 1.2 million shares of stock for a total of $53 million.
Since our repurchase program was initiated last year we have repurchased $332 million of stock.
In January we announced the $300 million increased to our share repurchase authorization.
Taking into account this increase and the repurchase activity during the quarter we now have $368 million available under the repurchase authorization which expires in February of 2014.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital prevailing market conditions and certain other factors.
In February we announced a 12% increase in our quarterly cash dividend.
We have returned almost $400 million in cash to our shareholders since the inception of our share repurchase and dividend programs a little over a year ago.
Slide 18 highlights the key assumptions in our 2012 outlook which remains unchanged.
Our outlook reflects updated production assumptions in our major markets.
Compared to our prior outlook global production is about flat at 79 million units.
However mix in our key platforms is flat to slightly negative.
Key currency and commodity assumptions remain unchanged from the prior outlook.
Slide 19 summarizes our 2012 financial outlook which remains unchanged from our prior guidance.
We are projecting sales of $13.85 billion to $14.35 billion in 2012.
We expect sales to stay relatively flat year-over-year reflecting increases from our sales backlog offset by lower European production the negative impact of foreign exchange selling price reductions and platform mix.
Core operating earnings are projected in the range of $740 million to $790 million.
Tax expense is estimated to be $150 million to $170 million resulting in an effective tax rate of approximately 23%.
Our cash taxes for 2012 should be approximately $125 million.
Restructuring spend is forecasted at about $40 million.
Capital expenditures excluding spending related to the fire last year at a European facility are forecasted to be approximately $425 million.
As discussed earlier we expect to receive full reimbursement from our insurance providers.
Free cash flow is projected at $275 million.
I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Thanks Jeff.
In North America the recovery appears to be gaining momentum.
At the same time market conditions in Europe remain challenging and a bit uncertain.
Looking at our 2 business segments we continue to forecast margins in the 6.5% to 7% range.
Our Electrical business will continue its trend of improving year-over-year sales and margins.
In Seating we now expect the cadence of margins to be consistent between the first and second half of 2012.
The Guilford Mills acquisition which we expect to close in the second quarter will further strengthen our Seating business.
Going forward we plan to continue to invest in both business segments through a combination of organic investment and niche acquisitions.
This strategy is intended to further strengthen both businesses and support profitable growth and increased shareholder value.
In closing I want to congratulate the Lear team.
The customer and industry recognition we received recently is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our employees.
With that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first a question on cash flow.
So if I go to Slide 19 and you talk a little bit about this in the outlook but I'm hoping maybe you could just maybe rephrase a little bit.
The midpoint of the adjusted net income for the Lear is $505 million for this year free cash flow of $275 million.
Can you just provide sort of the big picture walk from $505 million to $275 million why is free cash flow lagging net income? Let me take it off of EBITDA and give you some of the bigger pieces of it.
CapEx obviously is $425 million cash interest is about $55 million cash tax is about $125 million restructuring spend is about $60 million and then the rest of it's between pension and working capital.
So that's kind of the big major puts and takes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And just a brief follow-up and then I'll hand it off.
On the acquisition because I think this is the first opportunity you've had to speak to the investment community broadly since the acquisition was announced.
There's been a lot of debate in the investment community about the value of vertical integration in the Seating business.
Can you maybe speak to how you see the benefit of vertical integration and is this maybe specific to the fabrics area or are there other areas within Seating that you think could be attractive in terms of vertical integration? I think vertical integration is extremely important in the Seating business because it's a key driver of value and more importantly quality which we're responsible for as the end assembler and designer of a seat system.
The areas that we're looking at besides bolstering our industry-leading cut and sew businesses is the mechanisms recliners and tracks as well as foam as the key contributors to the quality and value of a seat.
So we would look at those components in addition to surface materials and cut and sew capabilities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you get any pressure from the OEMs with the OEMs moving to a directed buyer model and does that undercut some of the benefit of this strategy? No.
I think it actually supports it in that.
You have to be as a directed supplier you have to be the low-cost producer.
And I think from our standpoint by controlling the components we can provide better value because it's complete design solution designed in its entirety as opposed to trying to get different components to fit together from different manufacturers.
The key to anything is always to be the lowest cost and highest quality producer.
And I think by getting selectively vertigrated into it which we've been doing and which the industry has been doing for quite a while now is really the key to success and I think it has the support of our customers.
The key with anything is each of the subcomponents have a different type of financial footprint and DNA and it will impact the margins.
If you want a pure JIT or just-in-time assembly model to build the print then obviously the margins would be -- you could support the investment with a lower margin footprint.
As we get more vertically integrated I think that supports a higher margin so you always get back to your cost of capital.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one more question on Guilford Mills and I just want to make sure we understand the European exposure.
Did that come with any nonautomotive -- 2 questions did that come with any nonautomotive fabric businesses that you could potentially resell? And then secondly it listed JCI as a major customer how do you anticipate that relationship going forward? Well Brian it has about 15% nonautomotive which we actually are excited by because the spread of the engineering and a lot of the structure over a whole new kind of leg of growth because the technologies are similar and we would not be looking to divest that business.
As far as the business with Johnson it does have business with Johnson and it's really on their headliner fabric which is state-of-art and provides certain cost benefits as opposed to other fabric that's in the marketplace.
And in our business it's not uncommon to have buy-sell relationships with your competitors.
We have them with Faurecia with Johnson Controls with Delphi Yazaki so it's not uncommon.
And we have a tendency to work through those issues that we have so I don't anticipate it being an issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And over on Slide 11 it looks like -- is it fair to say your VW business is mainly with Audi or is there VW-VW business there as well? No.
It's with both.
We've got a good book of business on the Seating.
It's with both probably balanced between the 2 of them fairly equally.
Research Division</strong> And any -- since VW is rolling over its product lines to new platforms kind of any visibility into sort of the backlog and how it's developing in the luxury segments? Because I know you update that later in the year.
We will update backlog later in the year.
But what I would tell you is that as cars and automakers are going to the global platforms I think that's a niche for somebody like Lear that has component capabilities complete design capabilities component capabilities in pretty much every region in the world.
So as carmakers are turning over their platforms to go to a more global global small global mid-sized that's an opportunity for Lear.
And from that standpoint we are continuing to win our fair share of business during the first quarter.
And I would expect that to continue with Volkswagen as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First just on the sales guidances.
As we look at the first quarter x ForEx you guys were roughly in line with what the global industry data as far as volumes.
And then you look at sort of what you're indicating versus full year volumes you'd underperform volumes by about 5% to 8%.
I'm just curious what you think specifically drives some of that material disconnection as we go through the course of the year? Because it looks like the normalization of Japan boom in the first quarter shouldn't be as big of a headwind as we go into the second third and fourth quarter.
I'm just trying to understand what the severe under performance would be in the second third and fourth quarter? I wouldn't call it severe underperformance Murph.
The way we look at it is there's still a lot of uncertainty.
Based on our production assumptions that we outline on Page 18 of the slide deck we're comfortable with the sales numbers.
Basically the guidance at production is relatively unchanged.
And also we don't sell to the industry we sell to certain car lines within the industry and we have a little bit more exposure in Europe than we do in China and definitely more than we would have a Japan on the recovery there.
So from my standpoint still early in the year.
The assumptions broad-based assumptions are relatively unchanged and so we felt it was prudent at this time not to change guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just a second question maybe kind of a follow-up to that.
I mean how much of an impact did the GMT900 have in the first quarter? And is the sort of the slowdown of 40 000 to 50 000 units sequentially part of the reason that we might actually see this slowdown in sales versus production? Yes.
I mean it's an important program obviously because there's nothing like it in the industry as far as the volume and then again it has a lot of content.
And a lot of the content is Lear content.
So if that production number pulled back it would have an impact on the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a last question on the acquisition and potential for acquisitions going forward.
It sounds like Guilford Mills I mean some of the stuff is outside Seating it's headliners material for headliners.
Just curious I mean would you guys reconsider IAC as sort of a niche acquisition or something that would be a bolt-on to buy the stake that you don't own? Because it sounds like this Guilford Mills is a little more than just pure seating fabric.
It sounds like it's moving into the IAC realm just curious what your update is there particularly because you have the old CFO on board as the new CFO of your company.
Yes.
I wouldn't connect those dots.
I see the non-core holding.
We've exited the interiors as you know Murph to focus on seating and electrical distribution.
As far as Guilford you're right.
There is non-seating fabric in there.
But the technology and the engineering of the fabric as well as the manufacturing has certain synergies.
So to me there's a natural kind of fit as opposed to just doing seat fabric.
It doesn't signal in any way our intention to reenter the interior space so to speak.
IAC is not core and we'd be looking to monetize our investment in that entity at some point in the future.
Research Division</strong> And to that $260 million you mentioned is that sort of the upper end of niche by your definitions on acquisitions or is that up to $500 000 to $1 billion? I mean what's the sort of the definition of niche just curious...
That's about what we think about for a niche acquisition.
And I'll put parameters around it.
But that's about a niche acquisition $250 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple housekeeping things first.
First on Seating could you tell us what the FX impact was there? Was it around $60 million on a year-over-year basis? Going through our notes right now Jeff do you… From a sales perspective? Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's around $50 million for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> $50 million.
Okay.
And you said that that acquisition of Guilford closes in the second quarter.
Is that now incorporated into your guidance? No.
We anticipate it to be closed in the quarter Rod but it's not incorporated in the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just getting back to the sort of the year-over-year bridge in Seating.
EBIT was stronger than expected in the quarter but still down about $20 million.
You guys had highlighted the product development and the launches a $15 million of drag.
I would think that the top line growth the organic volume growth which historically contributed at 15% and backlog at 10% would have more than offset that maybe $25 million or $30 million from that.
Can you just sort of address that remaining variance that got you down to this level of profitability? And how does that variance look going forward? Yes I think the pieces that we miss sometimes is mix.
Each plant each obviously platform has its own financial DNA Rob but also pricing.
And pricing typically runs in our business about 2% net.
So I think if you plug that in and maybe make allowances for the mix not being as rich in the back half you'll get close to the number if you also add in the step-up in launch and product development.
Research Division</strong> I was more looking at the first quarter.
So the mix should have been pretty good I would think in the quarter.
So if you basically sort of broke down the top line growth.
Basically there must have been some volume in backlog that contribute here at some 10% for the backlog and 15% for the volume.
And it looks like maybe there's $25 million or $30 million of sort of other negative on a year-over-year basis? That's including -- have you taken into consideration the FX and the pricing level? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I would think so.
But maybe you can just help us if you thought about it in terms of year-over-year bridge do you have any way of bucketing...
Well backlog is about 90 if that gets you there.
Backlog is about 90 that typically converts at around 10% incrementally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the backlog was $200 million for the year but it was like very first half weighted? In Seating it's more front-end loaded than it is in Electrical.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's part of it.
And then you guys had talked about getting to 7% plus margin for that business at some point in the back half.
Is that still the case or have there been other developments which sort of reduced that target? No.
I still think we can exit the year at a 7% clip.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly you had been talking about guidance for the overall company of about $15 million negative from commodities but it looks like it was a little bit of a positive.
Is that something that appears to be changing if you mark it to market? No.
I wouldn't say that that's changed at all.
We're still holding the commodity number impact about the same year-over-year because part of what happens too Rod is there's time delay between when you're impacted by the commodity price changes and why they're relatively flat year-over-year.
What ended up happening last year is we got more of an impact later in the year than we did in the beginning.
So overall still a negative for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
On the Seating margin do you think it's going to be down in Q2 versus Q1 in line with the expected pretty meaningful decline in the output on the full-size trucks at GM? Yes.
I think it will be down but it's not -- that's not the only reason why.
So we're still in launch phase product development phase.
You also have a mix issue in Europe kind of pullback overall pullback in production in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
So I think those are contributing factors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I think you just touched on this but previously had you been saying that the second half margins would be better than the first and now you're saying comparable? Right.
We do think the margins first half second half will be comparable in the Seats segment.
Really this quarter benefited somewhat by the timing of certain commercial settlements that we thought would be more linear or more back-half loaded Chris than they ended up being.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not that second half is worse it's that Q1 was better than you thought.
Right.
I mean toned down a little bit you're right though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just remind me on the price down do you still disproportionately bear that in Q1.
You talk about 2% it's not 2% of the full year right? But is it heavier in Q1 than it is in subsequent quarters? No.
It's not that it's heavier.
It's typically pretty balanced and linear during the year.
There may be odd cases where it's up a little bit higher based on the mix and the timing of new program awards.
What is different though is that the cost savings take more time to implement.
The efficiency offsets to that kind of gain during the year whether they're supply chain efficiency gains or actually just manufacturing efficiency improvements usually kind of come back during the year.
So that's more of a driver than actually the pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I think you quantified it maybe I missed it but the year-over-year headwind from launch cost and development cost and then what's your expectation as you roll forward did those start to diminish and by when? Yes.
The year-over-year launch impact we have basically a launch cost of around $35 million for the full – for the quarter.
And that on a year-over-year basis Jason -- Jeff? Well I mean year-over-year basis we see launch costs in total being down on a year-over-year basis.
As we look at the cadence of launch costs in the various segments we see that in Seating launch costs would generally tail down in the back half.
And on the Electrical side of the business we would see those being relatively flat between the first and second half.
In the quarter they were I think a variance of around what $10 million Jeff? Yes sub-$10 million.
Research Division</strong> So I'm sorry so that was up $10 million year-over-year that's launch.
Does that include the development and the program preparation cost too or is that just launch? No.
It's an incremental -- that would be an incremental $7 million to $8 million thereabouts.
Research Division</strong> In Q1? In Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then these both tail off as you go through the year? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the 2012 production guidance.
Can you refresh us on what you're assuming for Detroit Three production in North America year-over-year as well as the GMT900 now? Yes Jeff the… On the Detroit Three we're forecasting volumes to be up on a year-over-year basis by 4%.
Research Division</strong> And do you have the assumption for GMT900 platform? The GMT900 in our guidance is 988 000 vehicles.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you remind us how much of the Seating business today is in North America.
And of that roughly how much of it is Detroit Three revenue? We don't get that specific on the revenue breakdown.
Roughly I would tell you that what we do say is roughly 20% of our revenue -- 40% of our revenue combines globally between Ford and GM.
The North American split on revenue I don't think we've been that specific on Seating and Electrical I'd like to keep it that way.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then on the commercial settlement not sure if you actually quantify what that was but do you have a sense of what the margin would have been x some of the -- it looks you expected some commercial settlements in Q1 but perhaps more linearly do you have what it would have been excluding the higher commercial settlements that you did receive? Yes.
Maybe it was about $10 million 35 basis points probably.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I noticed CapEx in the quarter of $69 million looks fairly low relative to your full year guidance.
You did have a fair amount of launches in Q1.
Any color on how we should think about the rest of the year there? Yes.
I would take the remaining CapEx and kind of just keep it pretty steady.
Second quarter looks like the remaining balance from the guidance it's pretty linear for the remainder of the year.
I'd probably model it that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was a bit surprised by the Electrical sales growth of 6% year-over-year in the quarter.
You had disclosed a backlog of $600 million in electrical alone for the year which by itself like is about 19% gross versus 2011.
So does that have to do with the timing of business launches in Electrical? Yes.
It's a couple things.
It's the timing of the launch it's the backlog in the first quarter is not linear it's a little bit lower and it builds up as the year goes on.
But you also need to take into consideration the impact of foreign exchange and pricing when you do your walk.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So can you just quantify how much backlog you had in the first quarter in Electrical? It's about $60 million.
Research Division</strong> $60 million.
Okay.
So and that's out of the $600 million for the year still right? Well we think the backlog for this segment in 2012 will be a little over I think it's $430 million or $425 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding your Guilford acquisition I guess the disclosed purchase price of $260 million that seems to represent a fairly hefty multiple of EBITDA of probably more than 7x.
Now I fully understand the strategic rationale for this vertical integration.
I'm just curious financially speaking how do you expect this to help the business.
Like are you seeing some synergies? Will it help you get some more business wins? Will margins overall improve over the next few years from then? Well I think one we're not talking about the multiple and I'm asking confirming that your multiple is correct let's put it that way.
But that being said anything that we're looking at buying it's a fair statement to say it's probably going to trade at a multiple that's higher than Lear's.
We continue to invest in our business to ensure that we can continue to provide value to our customers or -- and stay competitive if we're going to be successful for the longer term.
There are synergies that are both sales synergies technology synergies as well as cost synergies by putting it together so that the value is greater than the sum of the 2 parts.
And that's our investment rationale for doing it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And I guess just finally on the restructuring cash in the quarter.
In your working capital slide I think you were talking about $46 million spend in excess of the expense.
I think you for the year you were looking at about $60 million did you spend most of the restructuring in the first quarter this year? It was a big quarter for restructuring cash because if you remember fourth quarter we exceeded our cash flow.
And at the time what we were explaining is that we took the expense for a closure of facility in Spain but the cash actually did not -- wasn't spent until January.
That's the big driver of our restructuring cash for 2012.
Restructuring expense however is greatly reduced in 2012 as we get to more a normalized number [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a little bit about your margins and your longer-term expectations.
It appears as though the Seating margins are kind of stabilizing here in that 6.5% to 7% range.
And as you move into 2013 and maybe 2014 and so forth is your expectation that Seating margins will remain in that 6.5% to 7% range or is there some reason to believe that it might get better or worse? Well I think it's a function of the upfront investment both in engineering and capital and the level of vertical integration.
And right now the current level of vertical integration that we're at now in upfront investment this business should run in the 7% range 7% to 7.5% which we think at that point there's a fair enough gap to our cost of capital and the return on investment.
So really to us the margins are more a function of what it's going to take to produce the products that your sourced on and the programs that you're sourced on Brett.
So if there was a build to print just-in-time assembly of its fleet [ph] that obviously would warrant or require a loss of a margin to justify the investment.
For us longer term we think at our current level of vertical integration that the return at the 7% range of earnings is the right earnings and we're still confident we will get there.
Research Division</strong> And then on the electronic side you've clearly have seen some very nice improvement with some of the new business coming online.
And it looks like your backlog's fairly robust at least into next year.
Would you expect to continue to see improvement in the electronics margins and therefore possibly push it above that 6.5% to 7% range in 2013? Yes.
I don't want to get into giving guidance on 2013 and the first quarter of '12 but what we've said historically and we still believe it to be true is that again the margins are a function of the investment required to do the programs and the mix of the components and the engineering that you need to produce the programs you're on.
In this particular segment it had been impacted negatively historically by a lack of scale and a high fixed cost structure as we put these facilities in all around the world and continued to invest in high power which drove a high fixed cost.
As we've gained scale and approached the $4 billion numbers what you're seeing is the margins recover and we're taking advantage of the restructuring that we spent in this segment over the last 3 4 5 years.
So we would expect to see a continued improvement in the margins as we continue to gain scale and we expect to continue to gain scale in this segment.
Research Division</strong> And then switching gears just briefly on the new business backlog.
Your cadence you've got $800 million this year $700 million next year and $300 million in 2014.
Typically your out year your third year you see a nice improvement as you bid on new contracts and win new business.
Is there any reason to believe that that $300 million in 2014 is not going to improve materially? I guess I'm basically asking how's your bidding been going? We've been winning business at a fair clip consistent with the prior years so I would use probably the prior year business wins as a guide Brett but we've been winning our share of business and I would expect that 2014 number to improve.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if it's asked already but could you provide any color on other expenses and equity income line.
It seems a bit stronger.
And I think over last year it tends to be in that cost it seems like it was about a net $8 million benefit is that a sustainable rate or should income flow going forward? The equity income in the quarter of 9.7 was roughly 40% attributable to one of our non-core joint ventures which we've already talked about IAC.
And with respect to that obviously as Matt talked about we view that as non-core and are seeking to monetize that investment.
So on a longer-term basis we would see the equity earnings in the slightly lower than that adjusting for IAC.
Research Division</strong> So the net rate there -- but until you monetize it it should stay at this kind of rate or...
I'm sorry you broke up a little bit Colin could you repeat your question please? Research Division</strong> But in the interim until you monetize that asset it should stay at this rate.
I would keep it at -- I'd probably have it at about $5 million a quarter or thereabouts it won't be that far off.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Stover from Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is on the PA-12.
I'm wondering if you folks have any insight or outlook as to how that may or may not impact you specifically? And then I have a bigger picture question.
I'm not sure you're saying Page 12 on the Seating margins? LLC Research Division</strong> No.
PA-12 resin I'm sorry.
Well it doesn't really impact us directly and we have not yet seen production disruptions associated with it.
That's not to say that we won't in the future.
But in the history of the auto industry they're pretty resilient when there are disruptions like this Matt.
And if the car line is selling we'll figure out a way to get the allocation to it produce it.
But we haven't seen a disruption yet.
And I wouldn't really think that it would be meaningful for the full year.
It may put a chop in the quarter but I really haven't seen it yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> The second question is so your friends in France have a parent that has cash flow and capital issues in a very weak environment.
And a source of capital for them may be to do something strategic with Faurecia.
And I'm wondering if as you sort of look at the behavior in the market have you seen any change in behavior from them? And two do you have any opinions about how that might unfold? Not really.
I mean there's nothing in the marketplace that I'd like to discuss.
We are taking a disciplined approach to pricing.
Our focus is to make sure that the business models and the quotes that we provide to our customers are sustainable upfront when we provide them and make sure that we have a business model to support our cost competitive footprint all of which what we're doing.
We're not interested in purchasing Faurecia I want to make that very clear.
But other than that there's not a whole lot more I want to say about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I recognize that Guilford's not in your official guidance but even if we assume it closes second quarter it's in the back half of the year is there anything in terms of deal costs or maybe amortization that should prevent the deal from being accretive in the back half? At 1% interest net of cash pretty much everything's accretive.
What I would do Joe is just use -- take 6 months of $400 million in sales and use the margins preceding if you're trying to figure out what it would impact us in the event that we're able to close this deal in the second quarter as we anticipate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then in the quarter I appreciate sort of the commentary and the impact from the commercial settlements and I recognize there was stronger GMT 900 production as well.
But it does seem like the cost efficiencies are maybe coming in a little bit quicker as well.
Can you comment on that? And is that sort of a source for sort of your continued confidence in the margins for the rest of the year? The business continues to improve from an efficiency standpoint and cost-reduction standpoint.
They are making progress.
Ray Scott the President of the division his team is doing an outstanding job of putting in standardized business processes and improving operations.
So I wouldn't say they came in quicker.
They came in pretty much as expected but we expected them to improve.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one housekeeping I think previously you said the launch cost for the year positive $15 million.
I know you still said sort of a tailwind in the back half is that still sort of a good number for the year? It's a little bit less than that.
But yes it's pretty close and we would expect them to improve as the year goes on in relation to the prior year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I think you had a comment on the buyback residual [ph] share you'll buy back shares consistently.
Is that -- should we sort of assume that that means consistent with the first quarter or do we see that rate accelerating a little bit here and going forward? I would assume at this point if you take the remaining authorization that is open for the next 7 quarters and assume that it's going to be done pretty steady over those 7 quarters for now.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Brooks with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a few quick questions.
Can you maybe give us a sense of those top 10 platforms in Europe? What percentage of revenue they account for Europe? Do we have that offhand guys? Just a minute Adam let's see if we can get you some help on that.
About 25% -- about 25%.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then real quickly on the electrical segment revenue the underperformance there I guess relative to how you've been doing recently.
I know I think you're a little bit overweight forward there was that really a function of that plus the launches being more back-half weighted or is there anything else involved? I'm sorry on the Electrical segment did you say? LLC</strong> On the electrical segment yes.
Yes.
I thought the Electrical segment performed very well actually and it stepped up the margins year-over-year.
So the performance there really was scale and the benefits of fire restructuring actions and the backlog coming on.
So I don't see -- I don't think I understand your question.
LLC</strong> I guess this is just more from a revenue point of view.
I guess you've been doing 20% plus the past years.
I see I see.
Yes.
I think what it is is that the backlog's more back-end loaded.
The backlog in the quarter is probably half of what we'll see in the quarters 3 and 4.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you talked a little bit about acquisitions and looking a return on invested capital do you have a hurdle rate that you've thrown out there? Not necessarily.
But we estimate our cost of capital in the 10% to 11% range we'd like to get our investments that are greater than that obviously to create value for our shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line Aditya Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to take your opinion on T900 production.
Recently GM took up their full year SAAR forecast for U.S.
and if that means that T900 demand also goes in line with the increased forecast do you think they have the capacity to produce a T900 which is up year-over-year or do you think they will be capacity constrained? No.
They absolutely have the capacity to make everything that they can sell.
So if they have -- if we saw a 20% step up in the rates they would still have the capacity as we would to support that level of volume.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question is on the Guilford acquisition or actually not on the Guilford acquisition but on your acquisition strategy.
Now that Guilford is almost done would you have any preference for acquisitions in a specific segment or you're still kind of open to both the segments.
We're open to both the segments in all regions of the world.
Again our focus is on the components and strengthening our component capabilities as well as emerging markets.
Looking at capabilities in emerging markets or anything that comes in with the diversification or adds diversification from a sales base standpoint.
But no we're open to both segments.
I think that does it.
Is there one more Ed? Okay there's one more? Yes.
Your final question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on the acquisition.
One is you said that the Guilford Mills margins are pretty similar to Seating and in the past you said that one of the benefits of vertical integration is to kind of boost margins because the margins of components are higher than the overall Seating business.
Do you see potential to grow these margins over time with restructuring or with anything else or is it pretty steady at these levels? No.
I think really the margins are more of a function of the level of investment required to do it.
The mills which we also have a mill based out of Asia it's pretty consistent with the capital intensity of the seat business overall and on average.
And so from our standpoint it really doesn't change the footprint or the financial footprint so to speak of what the returns are going to be or what the returns requirement of the margin profile Ravi.
So from our standpoint no it does not change it.
The synergies that we're looking for right now are really to meet more than anything to penetrate the sales and grow and utilize our expertise and try to sell a little more efficiently.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And also you said that your focus is on making further component acquisitions.
Can you just give a sense on how you're going about this.
I mean are there targets that you've identified globally that you're kind of just kind of having conversations with them and persuading them to sell? Or are there even enough targets out there and how are you going about this? Yes.
What we do is first off we set what we're looking for from a strategic standpoint anything that would provide component capabilities would add benefit of emerging markets components in emerging markets anything that would diversify our sales base or add facilitate the growth with customers that were maybe are not as represented as well as we would like or facilitate the growth in Electrical.
Those are kind of our main sweet spots of what we're looking for.
Then we'd go out and we have a very active monitoring process of what is out there in the marketplace.
Third we look to see if it's actually actionable and start to dialogue with the equity group or the equity owners.
And then we start looking at valuation on whether or not it makes sense and whether or not it would fit well into Lear.
So any given time there's multiple multiple entities being evaluated.
And that's not new or recent that's been going on.
It's just in many cases a lot of people are looking for the same things and where you find -- you may not find that it's actionable.
And where it's actionable it may not something that really fits.
And so we're being very judicious in our search process and our selection process.
Now with that I think it rolls up and we've answered everybody's question.
And probably who remains are the Lear employees.
I want to thank Jeff for his great job on his first earnings call and the entire Lear team for their great work in the quarter.
And I want to thank you personally for all your hard work.
So with that thank you very much and I'll see everybody later.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Sarah and I'll be the conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the Lear Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Ed Lowenfeld Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the investor presentation materials and also on our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company overview.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our second quarter financial results and 2012 outlook then Matt Simoncini will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
Great job with the forward-looking statements.
We had a solid quarter of operating performance despite challenging industry conditions in Europe.
Sales in the second quarter were $3.7 billion unchanged from a year ago reflecting lower production in Europe and a weaker euro offset by higher production in other major markets.
Excluding impact of foreign exchange sales would have increased by 5%.
Core operating earnings were $197 million down from a year ago reflecting higher costs associated with the backlog and infrastructure costs in emerging markets.
While business conditions in Europe are challenging our European operations remain solidly profitable in the second quarter.
Our Electrical business continues its rapid growth and achieved record quarterly sales of $872 million in the second quarter.
Adjusted margins improved to 6.8% as the business continues to benefit from greater scale and previous restructuring actions.
We continue to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Since the beginning of last year we've returned almost $500 million to shareholders through these programs.
At the same time we continue to invest in strengthening our core businesses by expanding component capabilities in emerging markets.
Since the beginning of 2010 we've added new component capacity in 11 low-cost countries or emerging markets.
We estimate that we will invest approximately $300 million in these activities through the end of 2012.
On May 31 we completed the acquisition of Guilford Mills.
Guilford adds global fabric design and development resources as well as technical expertise to our existing seat fabric and cover capabilities.
We believe this will not only strengthen our current Seating business but will provide additional growth opportunities.
Slide #5 shows the continuing trend of sales growth and performance improvements in our EPMS segment.
Several key drivers have enabled this business to increase sales profits and margins since 2009.
In 2009 EPMS segment was unprofitable.
Over the past several years we have invested over $430 million in restructuring actions and capital expenditures to improve our manufacturing footprint in this segment.
We've also made incremental investments in high-powered technologies rationalized certain non-core product lines and improved our overall competitiveness.
As a result our sales in this segment have been growing faster than the overall industry.
The increased scale of the business provides operating leverage which coupled with lower structural cost and improved footprint have improved our margins.
We're on track for record sales in 2012 and expect margins to increase to 6.5% to 7% compared with 5.9% last year.
The positive momentum in this segment is expected to continue.
And based on our existing backlog we expect sales to grow to $4 billion to $5 billion over the next several years.
Please turn to Slide #6 where I'll review our approach to capital allocation.
Our primary focus is to provide our customers with outstanding customer service quality and value so we can continue to deliver solid operating results and generate cash.
As I mentioned earlier we are making significant investments in expanding our component capabilities and manufacturing footprint in the emerging markets.
We believe this strategy will improve the cost and quality of the products we provide to our customers facilitate sales growth and deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
In addition to growing organically we continue to evaluate acquisitions that will strengthen our core businesses such as Guilford.
Our acquisition strategy remains focused on companies that will further enhance our competitive -- our component capabilities our competitiveness help us grow in the emerging markets and add scale in our Electrical segment.
While reinvesting the business and returning cash to shareholders we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity and investment-grade metrics and financial flexibilities.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 8 provides the financial highlights for the second quarter.
Business conditions in Europe were challenging in the second quarter.
European industry production was down 9% and the euro weakened by 11%.
In North America and Japan production was up 27% and 68% respectively largely reflecting volume recovery by the Japanese manufacturers following last year's supply chain disruptions.
On a global basis industry production was up 11% including a 16% increase in China.
Lear sales were $3.7 billion flat with a year ago.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange Lear's sales in the quarter were up 5%.
Core operating earnings were $197 million down 13% from a year ago.
The decrease in earnings primarily reflects increased product and facility launch costs higher program development costs associated with the backlog and selling price reduction partially offset by new business and operating performance improvements.
Free cash flow was $49 million in the quarter.
We ended the quarter with cash of $1.3 billion reflecting the purchase of Guilford which was funded with cash.
Our reported EPS was $1.45 per share.
On the next few slides I'll cover our second quarter results in more detail.
Slide 9 shows vehicle production on our key markets for the second quarter.
In the quarter global vehicle production was 19.9 million units up 11% from 2011.
As mentioned previously the year-over-year production increase was largely driven by increases in Japan North America and China which were partially offset by production decreases in Europe.
Slide 10 shows our financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
As previously mentioned sales were flat at $3.7 billion.
In Europe adjusting for foreign exchange our sales were down 7% compared with a decline of 9% in industry production.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other was $190 million down $30 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $14 million up $3 million primarily reflecting interest expense related to indirect tax matters.
Weighted average diluted shares in the second quarter were 100.6 million 6.8 million lower than 2011 as a result of our share repurchase program.
Slide 11 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our second quarter results.
As I just mentioned our reported pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $190 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring costs and special items we had core operating earnings of $197 million.
Equity income in the second quarter includes income from special items of $14.7 million related to a reversal of a valuation allowance at one of our non-core joint ventures.
Excluding this onetime item equity income from our nonconsolidated joint ventures was $6 million an improvement of $2 million from a year ago.
Other expense in the second quarter includes income from special items of $3.5 million reflecting insurance recovery of items expensed in the prior period.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the second quarter was $135 million and adjusted EPS was $1.35.
Slide 12 summarizes the operating performance in our Electrical segment.
Financial results in this segment improved both sequentially as margins were up 30 basis points from the first quarter of 2012 and year-over-year with margins up 70 basis points.
The year-over-year margin improvement reflects the impact of new business and productivity improvements partially offset by higher product and facility launch costs and program development costs.
As mentioned previously we continue to forecast full year margins in this segment at 6.5% to 7% representing a third consecutive year of improvement.
Please turn to Slide 13 for a summary of our results for the Seating segment.
In Seating adjusted margins in the second quarter were 6.6% down 130 basis points from the second quarter of 2011.
The decrease in margin compared with a year ago reflects increased product and facility launch costs primarily related to the expansion of our component capabilities and backlog higher program development costs to support our new business and lower production on key platforms.
Slide 14 provides additional detail on some of the key drivers impacting our Seating business.
Seating margins in the first half of 2012 were 6.7%.
Recent margin performance has been impacted by a number of factors including increasing facility and launch costs globally higher program development costs to support new business investment in infrastructure in emerging markets and a weak production environment in Europe.
We are taking numerous actions to improve efficiencies in manufacturing performance.
In addition Guilford will strengthen our cut and sew business provide efficiencies in fabric design and further leverage our global component capabilities.
Our 2012 outlook for margins in Seating remains at 6.5% to 7%.
At our current margins and level of capital intensity we are generating returns in excess of our cost of capital.
Please turn to Slide 15.
We generated $49 million of free cash flow in the second quarter.
Capital expenditures were $107 million in the second quarter as we continue to expand our footprint in emerging markets invest in new programs and increase spending to improve our overall competitiveness.
Slide 16 provides our quarterly update on our share repurchase program.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.8 million shares of stock for a total of $70 million.
Since our share repurchase program was initiated last year we've repurchased $402 million of stock or approximately 8.5% of our outstanding shares leaving $298 million available under the repurchase authorization which expires in February of 2014.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative use of the capital and prevailing financial and market conditions.
Slide 17 highlights the key assumptions in our 2012 outlook.
Our outlook reflects updated production assumptions in our major markets.
Compared to our prior outlook global production is about flat at 78.7 million units.
Our production assumptions are consistent with the latest IHS forecast.
Our outlook is based on an average full year exchange rate of $1.26 to the euro which is down 3% from our prior outlook and reflects an average of $1.23 to the euro in the second half of 2012.
Slide 18 summarizes our 2012 financial outlook which includes the impact of the Guilford acquisition.
We are projecting sales of $13.9 billion to $14.4 billion in 2012 unchanged from our prior outlook.
The addition of approximately $200 million in Guilford sales is then offset by the impact of foreign exchange.
Global automotive production is relatively flat with our previous outlook.
Core operating earnings are projected in the range of $740 million to $790 million unchanged from the prior outlook.
This outlook reflects the addition of Guilford's earnings at margins which are consistent with their existing Seating business offset by the impact of foreign exchange.
Interest expense is estimated to be approximately $52 million down $3 million from our prior outlook primarily reflecting the impact of the redemption of 10% of our outstanding bonds.
Tax expense is estimated to be $130 million to $150 million a decrease of $20 million from our prior outlook reflecting the mix of earnings by country.
Capital expenditures are forecasted to be approximately $435 million up $10 million from our prior outlook reflecting the Guilford acquisition.
Our outlook for free cash flow is expected to be approximately $275 million unchanged from our prior outlook.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Great job.
We continue to deliver solid financial results despite challenging market conditions in Europe.
Looking at our 2 business segments we continue to forecast margins in the 6.5% to 7% range.
Electrical business will continue its trend of improving year-over-year sales and margins.
In Seating we expect margins in the second half of 2012 to be consistent with the first half and we continue to win business in both segments.
The expansion of our component capabilities will strengthen our core businesses and position Lear for profitable growth.
The Guilford acquisition will complement these activities in Seating by strengthening our world-class seat cover business and providing additional capabilities in fabric design and manufacturing.
Our strong balance sheet and solid operating performance provides us the ability to continue to invest in the business return cash to shareholders and take advantage of any market opportunity.
In closing I want to welcome the Guilford employees to Lear.
You're joining a great team and we're happy to welcome you to our family.
I also want to thank all our employees for all their hard work and dedication.
I recognize the personal demands of providing world-class product and outstanding customer service while continuing to grow and expand our businesses.
Keep up the good work.
With that I'd be happy take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Rod Lache Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just had -- first a couple of housekeeping things.
Just to confirm is the updated FX guidance now $700 million headwind up from $500 million? And can you give us a feel for what commodities and product development and launch headwinds were this quarter what your update is for the full year? The FX based on the revised guidance provides a headwind on FX on a full year basis of about $650 million.
From a commodity standpoint Jeff do you have the exact headwinds? The headwinds on commodity on the copper side copper has been lower on a year-over-year basis.
And as such our earnings reflect roughly $2 million to $3 million of benefit on the copper side.
On the Seating side of the business both steel and resin costs were higher in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Cumulatively those 2 were about $6 million to $7 million.
Research Division</strong> And what's your expectation for the year? For the year on copper we continue to see some improvement and -- on a year-over-year basis.
And on the steel and resin side we continue to forecast some year-over-year decline in performance based on those prices.
Research Division</strong> And you made some comments in your prepared remarks about Seating returning its cost of capital at the 6.5% to 7% margin.
I was just hoping you can talk a little bit about what your longer-term expectations are beyond this year for that business.
I think historically you had a target of getting north of 7%.
Is that something that you would anticipate happening anytime soon? Or is that something that with the launch activities you've got next year and pricing environment would be a little bit more challenging? Rod I don't want to get into giving margins out for next year really because of the uncertainty in the production environment.
That being said what we'd expect this business to do is provide returns in excess of its cost of capital.
That's going to be dependent upon the type of business we're winning the type of business that's launching and obviously the production on our platforms to level Lear content and the investment to provide those programs.
Just to round it out a little bit more If it's a build-to-print program that typically takes less upfront engineering and therefore probably demands or commands a lower margin in the marketplace.
On the other hand structures business mechanisms business a little bit more capital intensive and usually requires more engineering that would require a higher margin in order to return.
So really it comes down to the programs you're on the level of vertical integration and whether those are build to print and whether Lear is design responsible.
Your next question comes from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on the European business.
I mean we hear a lot of companies really ringing the alarm bell on potential risks in Europe and I know you guys are highlighting the potential for volume risk there.
But it seems like your business is performing well.
You mentioned it's solidly profitable.
I'm just curious how you are able to sort of sidestep some of the other risks that we're hearing from other companies or the pressures we're hearing from other companies.
And when you talk about Europe being profitable is it in the same ballpark as North America? Well it's -- it really depends.
I'll start with the ending question Murph.
It really depends on the 2 segments.
In Seating we've historically performed a little bit less than the target margins and little bit more than North America.
Really it's more a function of the vertical the level of vertical integration which is higher in North America.
In Electrical we performed at or above target margins.
And really again it's a more mature business in Electrical than in Europe and in North America and it has a higher level of vertical integration so that drives the margins.
Overall Europe for us has been in the 4% or 5% operating margin range and that's actually slightly down from last year but still slightly profitable.
I can't really speak to others and why they're not profitable.
Our business there is I think positioned well.
We've invested quite a bit in improving the footprint and getting our components into lower-cost manufacturing locations.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Second question you've been highlighting launch costs as a pressure for a while.
I'm just curious as we look forward there's a lot more product activity coming over in the next few years.
Are we going to continue to hear about launch costs being a headwind? Or at some point do we just get up to this steady state of high-level launches and on a year-over-year basis it'll normalize.
I was just trying to understand if that will ever happen.
Theoretically if the backlog decreases launch cost and launch activity would decrease as well obviously.
For now the cadence of our backlog is pretty consistent over the next several years.
I would expect the launch activity to continue.
To us the other driver of this is as we expand our capabilities in emerging markets there's infrastructure costs as you establish facilities that may not be completely utilized management teams in those regions to support the sales growth.
I think those factors coupled with program development costs are what you're seeing in the business.
Now year-over-year do we expect it to be incremental? I would say no Murph but you would still expect the level to be fairly consistent over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the Guilford acquisition.
At this point are you guys doing all of your own seat covers? And how much is Guilford doing of your current seat covers? And can you just really shut down all external sourcing now that you've gotten Guilford? No it's -- not quite.
I'd like to do all our seat covers.
I think we have a best-in-class cut and sew operations and the lowest possible footprint.
I think it's a competitive advantage that we have.
Adding fabric I think enhances some of the front-end design that we can do to create value and improve the quality of the seat covers.
That component however is directed both the fabric and the seat cover in many cases independent of the seat award from our customers.
Right now I would say roughly I don't know 10% of Guilford sales are to Lear.
We'd like to penetrate it more and I think the way to do that is going to be a bit longer term Murph but it's going to require us winning the business independent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I mean you guys are performing fairly well in a tough environment here on an operating basis and generating cash.
You're buying back shares you're paying a dividend you're making what appears to be some pretty good smaller bolt-on acquisitions that aren't too disruptive.
Matt what else do you think you can do sort of operationally and executionally to get more people interested in the investment in the company or potentially move the company forward? Because it seems like you're almost firing on all cylinders right now.
Well I appreciate the compliment.
We've had a pretty active dialogue with the investment community trying to articulate our strategy and explain our value equation.
In the end all we can do is keep our head down work very very hard at the fundamentals of the business look for investment opportunities which we're doing try to create value by returning cash to shareholders because we believe the long-term value of this corporation.
And hopefully we get recognized for that and the valuation takes care of itself.
Your next question comes from Itay Michaeli of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can comment on just the overall booking activity if you're seeing any deferrals in the pipeline.
And also are you still launching the same amount of backlog that you last disclosed when you updated it? Or has that moved around at all just given the macro environment? No it really hasn't.
It's very unlike the last downturn in '09 when you had a lot of programs that were delayed.
And if anything the launch cadence in the programs are shortening and launching faster.
There's been really no delay or program delays that I'm aware of.
Everything is launching on schedule.
The volumes may be a little bit lower particularly in Europe.
But no there has not been any program delays and no change in the launch cadence.
Research Division</strong> And how about just the overall booking and quoting activity? It's been great.
Quoting activity has been very very active.
And our business wins have been consistent if not a little bit higher than our recent pace.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just on the full year guidance the EBIT range is still about $50 million wide.
You've got a very stable result from the first half of the year.
Can you share kind of what put you at the high end versus the low end? Is there maybe a little bit of cushion at the low end for production? Just any thoughts on that.
Yes.
Really it comes down to the -- when there's literally thousands of inputs that go into setting guidance but the biggest one is the volume on the car lines that we're on.
And with the uncertainty in the market mainly in Europe right now that's why we thought it'd be prudent to keep a relatively wide range even though we're 6 months into the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Terrific.
And then just lastly on Guilford.
You mentioned some of the integration as a potential margin improvement initiative.
Can you maybe quantify that a little bit? How much can that contribute to the seat margin? And is that more of a second half of 2012 or 2013 tailwind for you guys? I really don't see it driving just because of the sheer size of it.
Driving a margin expansion in Seating the -- I think it contributes to Seating at the seat margins right now 6.5% to 7%.
There's always opportunities to create value with an acquisition.
Our focus on Guilford really was more to drive growth and use it as a platform for growth and add -- get in the design stages of the seat covers and drive that type of performance.
So it's really been more on a growth perspective than a cost reduction.
Your next question comes from Ryan Brinkman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The sequential decremental margins that you had in the second quarter in Seating I think I could calculate that at about 19% not adjusting for FX.
Is that pretty much what we should model going forward if Europe tracks worse than expected? Or do you think there are things you can do to keep decremental smaller than that? No.
I think in the short term you're going to look at depending upon the platform the region anywhere between let's say 15% to 20% on a short-term volume reduction.
We're always looking for ways to offset it but we have to balance that with the long-term profitability and making sure that our program development targets are met and our milestones are met and that the plants are ready to launch.
The vast majority of our component facilities are running still towards the upper end of capacity in our low-cost countries.
However the just-in-time seat assembly business is typically located right next to a customer's manufacturing facility.
It's a little bit harder there to reduce costs.
Our engineering I think we're pretty lean on our program development costs.
There's not a whole lot of opportunity to improve that number in the short term.
Longer term if this looks like a sustained downturn and by that let's say over several years then we would take actions to restructure the business.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And then I would just ask 2.
I'm curious how you think about your -- the potential for your business as GM rolls out it's new full-sized pickups next year.
IHS Automotive is looking for just a very small 3% increase in the combined GMT900 and K2xx maybe up 1% in 2014.
Do you think that there's actually more opportunity for you there for volumes as it relates to your Seating business given your history of involvement with this program? Just your understanding of the competitiveness of the upcoming product.
Well if history's any indicator normally when a new program is launched and refreshed and redesigned it usually gets a bounce in the marketplace as its new product.
And we've seen that with the new Ford large truck platform.
And I expect to see the same thing for the replacement large truck program at General Motors.
It's a great-looking vehicle great design and I think it has the best seats in the world.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure it does.
Just very last question.
On the backlog -- you got so much lot backlog coming on Electrical.
How should we think about the cadence of that in 3Q and 4Q just sort of continue to ramp quarter after quarter? Or how should we think about that? It actually steps up in quarters 3 and 4 from the activity that we had so it almost doubles in the back half of the year from what we saw in the first half in Electrical.
Your next question comes from Joseph Spak of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The -- I just wanted to focus on the cash flow.
Although you maintained the free cash flow guidance it implies a much bigger step-up in the second half.
Is that mostly working capital release? Or can you give some additional color there? Well I think that's the big part of it in that working capital is estimated to be a source of cash in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
There is obviously a bunch of components that go into it.
Part of it is Guilford and both on the cash flow standpoint and the CapEx standpoint.
But generally speaking I think one of the big drivers is working capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> And was there an impact on working capital in the quarter from the acquisition? It's relatively minor.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did -- and just following up on the backlog.
Appreciate the color on EPMS.
Is Seating still fairly evenly split? Or should it decelerate a little bit from what you guys saw in the first half? It steps down a little bit in third quarter.
But first half and second half it's pretty even.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one is there any update on the tax valuation reversals? Should we still expect that to occur in 2013? I have here our expert in tax Mr.
Bill McLaughlin our VP of Tax.
Yes.
We still expect the valuation allowance to be reversed this year in the second half.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the second half.
And then you'd start accruing closer to the 30% right? Yes.
2013 we would see approximately 30%.
Your next question comes from Chris Ceraso of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So you said that you expect seating margins in the back half to be pretty comparable to the first half.
Are there some headwinds that go away? Because I would think that seasonally Q3 would be a bit weaker and then Q4 I think GM is taking a fair amount of downtime on the full-sized SUVs which I know are important for you.
So help me bridge that.
How do we get second half margins that are comparable to the first? Well really it's the mix of the product.
I think that seasonality plays into it but also fourth quarter is normally a fairly strong quarter for us as we get a full year cost reduction then that offsets for some of the commercial activities that -- and assistance that we've given our customers.
So if you look at the normal seasonality in that segment you usually see a pretty strong fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned in your comments Matt that there were other opportunities for growth from Guilford.
Can expand on that? What were you talking about there? Well I really think if we can get in on the front end of the design of the covers and it always starts -- seats covers always starts with the design of the fabric.
And as we're in the design studios with the fabric I think that is a natural progression into the cutting and sewing of the seat covers.
So I think what it could do is provide additional opportunities on that segment.
We have a well-established business with a great footprint on the cutting and sewing of the seat covers.
And getting in on the front end of this especially in Europe I think would provide opportunities to grow that subsegment.
Research Division</strong> So if you're involved at the front end with the fabric you suspect that you'll be awarded more cut and sew business.
Is that what you're saying? Absolutely because I also think besides the design side of it we can actually improve the quality and the cost of the fabric by milling both sizes to the most efficient manner of cutting.
And so I think the combination really could provide a lot of value to our customers.
Your next question comes from Aditya Oberoi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I have one housekeeping question on your CapEx.
You guys increased the guidance by $10 million.
Is it a pull forward of some of the CapEx? Or is it like new in opportunities that you've explored during the quarter? No.
It's really quite simple.
It's the addition of the Guilford acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay great.
And secondly I know Jeff you mentioned some price reductions that weighed on seating margins in the quarter.
Was there something abnormal? Or is it just the standard to 1% to 2% price reduction that you give to your customers? No.
There was nothing abnormal that went on in the quarter.
I think pretty standard to what we've seen historically.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And on your backlog typically you guys update your 3-year backlog during the midyear earnings.
Any specific reason why that slide was missing this time around? No not really.
I mean we've done it -- we did it last year but normally we only update it once a year and that was usually in the January auto show in Detroit.
There's really -- I don't think a whole lot of thought that went into it although we expect that we are continuing to win business in both segments.
It's at a pace that actually is slightly ahead of what we've done the last several years but I wouldn't read too much into it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And finally on your M&amp;A does the strategy still remains focused on $300 million to $500 million range in terms of acquisition size? Or are you guys are like looking at bigger deals as well? Well we always have our ears to the ground on all sizes of deals.
We don't think there is a major one out there that really would provide value to Lear Corporation.
Most of the I think the potential -- or the vast majority of the potential combinations that are out there acquisitions that are out there are more in the niche category.
And I -- quite frankly I don't think we need a significant acquisition.
I think the business is well placed.
All segments are well placed.
Your next question comes from Emmanuel Rosner of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up question to your backlog on -- your comments on backlog.
During the last quarter conference call I think during the Q&amp;A you had implied that the 2012 backlog for Electrical was now just $425 million and that would have been down from I think about $600 million that you had indicated back at the Detroit auto show.
Is there any update on this? Did I understand that well? A little bit off on the math.
We see it more around $450 million.
And the decrease at the time is -- really was driven mainly by the change in the FX assumption as we've seen the euro pull back.
Okay.
So the way it stands right now is still around $450 million? That's correct.
Okay.
And then regarding the large reversal of valuation allowance in the equity income line you mentioned that it has to do with a large non-core JV.
So is that your IAC interiors joint venture? And if so what does the reversal mean for the profitably there if anything? Well I think it is IAC.
And intuitively that tells me that if it's the north it's the U.S.
side of the equation that took the valuation allowance adjustment and that tells me that there's some improvements in earnings not only this year but historically as you measure that.
You guys should measure the ability to take the valuation allowance down.
So there's some improvement in U.S.
seemingly in that joint venture.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's good news.
My understanding is that there's also some element of forward-looking assumption in general for that move.
Is that right? Like do you basically expect better profitability to continue? Yes.
That's part of the rationale that needs to go into the decision to reverse the valuation allowance.
Your next question comes from Colin Langan of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this.
Any color on the Guilford? What it's adding to your guidance for the full year in terms of sales and core operating earnings? Yes.
It's roughly $200 million in sales at margins consistent with the seat margins of 6.5% to 7%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- you just recently did a debt repurchase.
What is the logic of that versus doing a share repurchase given where your stock is? I mean why the -- why taking out the debt since you're net cash anyway? Well there's a lot of different alternatives for utilizing our cash.
In the case of the bond repurchase the return on investment is certain and we'll save about $5 million annually in interest expense.
We don't think that action stops us from doing other actions that also create value.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
So just another question.
On the other expense line item I know it's a little bit small but a little bit higher this quarter I guess it was around $14 million what was driving that high? And is that an abnormally high run rate? Or should we be modeling in something similar going forward? It's really attributable primarily to the FX changes and it really relates to the various loans that are intercompany to Lear and the impact of that that's on those loans.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this will be a onetime revaluation so it wouldn't be ongoing? Based on the current FX rate yes.
Your next question comes from Brian Johnson of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a bit more strategically about the drivers of revenue margin improvement in EPMS.
If you kind of think about the business and kind of 3 rough buckets in the year -- if you had better buckets that you think about feel free to recast the answer of kind of core wiring harness then connectors and then other sort of more electrical inverters converters into the box product line.
Just a couple questions.
How much of the backlog would be in each of those 3 categories? And is the margin improvement coming from more business at the end of the wires? Or is it coming from more scale and profitability in the core wiring harness component of it? And roughly kind of because it's probably a bit of both what would be the impact of each of those? Right.
We really don't look at the business in those subcomponents although obviously they're different and have different assemblies.
The reality is for us when we look at that segment Brian we've drifted it down and rationalized the product line to be Electrical Distribution Power and Signal Management.
When we look at the returns and how the returns are being driven it's really scaled in all 3 of the subcomponents of Electrical Distribution.
We're winning business in all 3 although from just a pure size stand we're probably smallest in the connectors business.
Each has its own kind of financial DNA.
Wire harnesses are less capital intensive.
But in order to design a neural network of a vehicle you need to have a lot of upfront investment.
So really the improvement came from having a more competitive footprint not only in wire harnesses but also in a lot of the junction box and electronic modules that we do which we now manufacture in Mexico and Northern Africa.
Our wiring business has probably one of the best footprints in the industry and that's the result of all the restructuring that we've done.
That coupled with the business being under scale in 2009 when we had revenues of $2 billion we had roughly 20% fixed cost.
That came because of our continued investment in the footprint as well as our continued investment in high power.
Now that we're finally starting to get our critical mass up to $3.5 billion and closer to $4 billion you're seeing the returns that we should have in that 7-plus percent margin.
So in short we really don't look at it by subcategory.
We look at it as a complete kind of component Electrical Distribution because that's how we design our products.
Research Division</strong> And you seem -- a competitor recently bought a private equity owned connector business.
Is that -- you had bought one I think several years ago in Europe.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Is that a business you're looking to get more scale in? Or are you sort of more focusing on the power management and other -- in wiring harness? No we looked hard at FCI.
And we have made an acquisition back in I think 2004 of the old Grote &amp; Hartmann business in Europe which provided specialty connector systems and high-end electrical distribution with premium customers.
And it's been very successful for us and gave us a nice kick in that segment.
For us in the end the value equation didn't make sense on that acquisition.
It is a product that I think has the value and -- but from our standpoint we think a better solution for us is organic investment and we're actively expanding our capabilities in connectors from a manufacturing design standpoint mainly in Asia at this point.
Our next question comes from Ravi Shanker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Matt you said earlier that your seating margins going forward will depend on how much the business is full sourced from you guys versus how much is designed by the OEM and just contracted out to you guys.
Do you see a huge shift in that mix going forward? Or do you think it remains pretty stable? No it's pretty stable.
I mean -- first off it's a combination of whether or not you're design responsibility -- responsible but it's also the level of vertical integration that you have Ravi.
So if you're making the structures the foam the seat covers obviously there's additional capital that's required.
That factors in as well on the margins of a program.
Customer-direct sourcing of components is nothing new.
It's been going on for a long time.
It's more prevalent in Europe than it is in North America and in Asia.
I think that the customer designing various aspects or having a company-wide solution or taking responsibility for the design is also not new.
That's been probably in the industry for a while.
And to us when we look at the business and the margins and whether or not a program make sense for us we really look at it on a return on investment basis as opposed to the margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a follow-up question on M&amp;A and the connectors business.
Do you see any potential targets out there that would be an attractive fit with you guys? Are you still like you said focused on just growing the business organically? There are smaller connector businesses that are out there none of which are formally for sale at this point but we keep an active evaluation and dialogue with some of those companies.
In the end it really comes down to whether they have the technology and the catalog and whether the valuation makes sense from an investor perspective or if we're better off just in many cases expanding our organic capabilities.
So there are ones that are out there none with the size of FCI however.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally can you just update us with what your assumption for the GMT900 production is for the year? Roughly 1 million units on a full year basis.
Your next question comes from Adam Brooks of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
If we look at the CapEx run rate over the next few years is it fair to assume this is the new norm of around 3% of sales? And I guess at what point would we get back to 2% 2.5%? Or is that part of the past? No.
I think it is elevated and is part of the use of liquidity and strong capital structure that we have.
In many cases the organic investment is the best solution for providing returns.
We stepped up our capital program to expand our footprint in emerging markets.
And that coupled with a strong backlog is what's elevated the CapEx spending to higher percentage of sales.
We think that will stay true for the next year or so and then move down to more normalized which is 2% to 2.5% of sales.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then if we look at the pricing environment maybe a little bit about electrical is in Europe.
Well the pricing environment is tough because the car companies are obviously having price pressures on the end products as they look to gain share and scale.
Part of what we're able to do by being a full-service electrical distribution provider with full engineering is to design a lot of the cost savings they need out of their product.
The pricing environment's tough but that's nothing new in this space and I think it plays to Lear's strength.
On average we're going to run at about 2%.
And I don't really see Europe electrical being different than the overall business quite frankly.
Your next question comes from Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question.
How would you characterize pricing pressure versus 6 to 12 months ago? It sounds like it really hasn't changed that much.
Is that indicative of...
No it really hasn't -- obviously everybody is looking to help their customers get cost out of the products so they can deliver the most value to the consumer and facilitate sales.
From our standpoint we try to do it in a collaborative effort with our customers on the design side.
We also give on average about 2%.
The pressures have been tough it's very competitive but I think in many ways it plays to our strength because of our full design and components capability.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Electrical business the backlog implies growth of kind of double digits this year and dropping down to the high-single digits next year.
And then 2014 you're kind of down in the mid-single digits.
How should we think about revenue growth kind of in that 2014 '15 '16 time frame? I mean is it going to start to drift down into that kind of mid-single-digit range and will remain in that range? Or do you think it actually can see some improvement in that year? There's still a lot of open sourcing in '14 and '15 that's out there but it's kind of hard to maintain double-digit growth which far exceeds the industry.
So it's kind of hard to commit to that level of growth because it's been so great in that segment for Lear Corporation.
Some of the other key drivers however are as the continued penetration and content gains as cars become more complex and there's more electronics being driven whether it's engine management powertrain management or is the infotainment-type features that are in the vehicles they all seem to be moving up.
There's more circuits and more demands for electrical content that also drive sales growth in this segment.
Research Division</strong> And then the 78% electrical targets is that achievable in the 2013 time frame? Or is that more on the 2014 time frame? I really want to get away from giving margin targets for '13 really as a result more than anything of the production uncertainty.
But I believe that if we can get our revenues in that $4 billion to $5 billion range that's when you'll see that segment achieve their margin targets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally in the past as you kind of transition from the GMT800 to the 900 we saw some pretty significant margin pressure as the launch kind of went down and then back up again here.
You've got the K2xx next year.
What are your thoughts about margin pressure in that business next year as you go to the K2 program? Is that -- do you think that's going to -- you're going to see the kind -- same kind of margin pressure you have historically? Or do you think there's some reason to believe that it's not going to be as impactful this time around? No I think history is a good benchmark.
Whenever you launch a major replacement program or a new program margins typically get pressure as you work through engineering solution and cost reductions and your manufacturing facilities learn how to make a very new product with a complete redesign.
So I would expect next year to be not a whole lot different as it relates to that factor.
Our final question comes from Matthew Stover of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Many of the questions have been addressed.
But I was wondering Matt if you can provide some more color as we're thinking out to the second half with regards to the Seating business.
The production schedules in Europe first half to second half are going to get worse.
And I imagine you have some internal control-ables that are probably getting better and North America is okay.
But I wonder if you can kind of give a little more detail on some of the pluses and the minuses as we really think through the second half.
Well I think you always get better with your value engineering cost solutions as you look for ways to offset some of the pricing that typically picks up in the second half of the year as you get a full year run rate of those savings that you built in quarters 1 and quarters 2.
I think we'll see the cadence of launch improve as well in the second half.
But I think just overall the facilities run better as they get a full year of efficiency actions under their belt.
Historically the fourth quarter has always been a pretty good quarter for us because we've had the benefit of those type of actions.
The other side of it is it really comes down to the mix.
We talked a lot about overall volumes and that's important.
But as important -- more important is the platforms that you're on and each one has its own kind of financial DNA.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to presenter for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
I'd like to thank the finance organization at Lear.
Jeff and his team did an outstanding job once again.
It's all the hard-working people at Lear Corporation.
Thank you so much for a great quarter.
Appreciate all the hard work.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Lear's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And I'll now introduce and turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference sir.
Thank you Tracy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information also at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide #3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt will provide a company overview and Jeff will cover our third quarter financial results and 2012 outlook.
Then Matt will have some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we'll be happy to take your questions.
Please turn to Slide #4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
Despite a challenging industry environment in Europe Lear had another solid quarter of operating performance with year-over-year improvements in sales earnings and free cash flow.
Sales in the third quarter were $3.5 billion up 2% from 1 year ago reflecting the benefit of new business the Guilford acquisition and higher production in North America and China partially offset by the adverse impact of foreign exchange and lower production in Europe.
Adjusted earnings per share was $1.29 per share up 19% from a year ago.
Free cash flow was $88 million up 37%.
In addition to improved financial results our earnings per share also benefited from our share repurchase program.
Over the last 12 months we reduced our shares outstanding by 6.9 million shares or approximately 7% of the total shares outstanding.
Our Electrical business continues its rapid growth and achieved a quarterly record with sales of $877 million in the third quarter.
Adjusted margins improved to 7.5% from 5.4% last year as the business continues to benefit from greater scale and previous restructuring actions.
We continue to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
This year we will return $214 million to shareholders bringing the total to $544 million since these programs were initiated in the first quarter of 2011.
We are increasing our 2012 guidance for net income by $15 million.
Jeff will review the outlook in more detail a little later in the presentation.
Also during the quarter we were recognized again by J.D.
Power and Associates as the highest quality major independent seat manufacturer for the 11th time in 12 years in their annual study.
Slide #5 provides your regional overview of Lear's business results in the third quarter.
In North America and Asia our business continues to perform well.
And in Europe both product groups are profitable despite lower auto production in the region.
South America was slightly unprofitable in the third quarter reflecting higher facility and product launch costs as well as increased infrastructure spending to support new business growth.
On a consistent foreign exchange basis our sales in South America are expected to increase by about 15% in 2012.
For the next 18 to 24 months we expect sales to increase by an additional 40%.
We're also expanding component capabilities and seat structures covers and foams as well as wire harnesses.
We are confident that the investments we are making today in this emerging market will provide sales and earnings growth opportunities going forward.
However we expect that margins in the region will remain under pressure into next year during this ramp-up phase.
At present margins both Seating and EPMS businesses are generating returns on invested capital in excess of Lear's cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 7 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the third quarter.
In the quarter global vehicle production was 18.7 million units up 2% from 2011.
As Matt mentioned business conditions in Europe remained challenging in the third quarter as industry production was down 7% and the euro weakened by 12%.
In North America the industry recovery continued with industry production up 14%.
And in China industry production remained strong up 7% versus last year.
Slide 8 shows our financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
As previously mentioned sales were up 2% at $3.5 billion.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange Lear's sales in the quarter were up 9%.
Our sales in Europe decreased 10%.
However adjusting for foreign exchange European sales were up 1% compared to a decline of 7% in industry production.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $170 million up $11 million from 1 year ago.
Interest expense was $14 million up $3 million primarily reflecting interest expense related to an indirect tax matter.
Other expense was $2 million down $9 million primarily reflecting lower foreign exchange losses.
Reported earnings per share were $1.23 up 29%.
The increase in earnings per share reflects the improvement in pretax income fewer shares outstanding and a lower tax rate.
Slide 9 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our third quarter results.
As I just mentioned our reported pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $170 million.
Excluding the impact of operational restructuring costs and other special items we had core operating earnings of $179 million up 1% from 2011.
The increase in earnings reflects new business and operating performance improvements partially offset by increased product and facility launch costs primarily in South America and higher program development costs associated with the sales backlog.
Equity income in the third quarter includes income from special items up $2.2 million related to a reversal of a valuation allowance at one of our non-core joint ventures.
Other expense in the third quarter includes income from special items of $7.2 million reflecting insurance recovery of items expensed in a prior period and a loss of $3.7 million related to the costs associated with the redemption of 10% of our outstanding bonds.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the third quarter was $127 million and EPS was $1.29.
Please turn to Slide 10 for a summary of our results for the Seating segment.
In Seating adjusted margins in the third quarter were 6.1% down 60 basis points from the third quarter of 2011.
The decrease in margin compared with 1 year ago reflects primarily increased product and facility launch costs as well as program development costs to support our growth in South America.
We expect that these launch-related costs in the Seating segment will remain elevated in the near-term to support the new facilities and programs in the region.
Year-to-date adjusted margins in Seating are 6.5%.
Slide 11 summarizes the operating performance in our Electrical segment.
Financial results in this segment improved both sequentially as margins were up 70 basis points from the second quarter of 2012 and year-over-year with margins up 210 basis points.
The year-over-year margin improvement reflects the impact of new business higher production on key platforms and productivity improvements partially offset by higher product and facility launch costs and program development costs.
Year-to-date adjusted margins in EPMS are 6.9% up 120 basis points from 2011.
Slide 12 provides additional detail on some of the key drivers impacting our performance in each of our business segments.
In Seating margins continue to be impacted by higher costs related to the launch of new program and facilities increasing infrastructure and program development to support new business particularly in emerging markets such as South America.
Seating margins have also been negatively impacted by the weak production environment in Europe.
We expect these factors to continue to impact us in the fourth quarter and we are projecting 2012 full year Seating margins to be in the mid-6% range.
EPMS is benefiting from increasing scale and a highly competitive footprint following restructuring of the business.
This segment continues to grow faster than the overall industry.
For EPMS we expect full year margins to be in the low-7% range representing a third consecutive year of improvement.
Please turn to Slide 13.
We generated $88 million of free cash flow in the third quarter and ended the quarter with cash of $1.3 billion.
Capital expenditures were $113 million in the third quarter as we continue to expand our footprint in emerging markets invest in new programs and increase spending to improve our competitiveness.
Slide 14 provides our quarterly update on our share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased 1.3 million shares of stock for a total of $50 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 4.2 million shares for $173 million.
And since initiating the share repurchase program last year we have repurchased 10.4 million shares or approximately 10% of our outstanding shares for a total of $452 million.
As of the end of the third quarter $248 million remained available under the share repurchase authorization which expires in February 2014.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy back shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital and prevailing financial and market conditions.
Slide 15 highlights the key assumptions in our 2012 outlook.
Our outlook reflects updated production assumptions in our major markets.
Compared to our prior outlook global production is about flat at 79 million units.
Our outlook is based on an average full year exchange rate of $1.28 to the euro which is up 2% from our prior outlook and reflects an average of $1.28 to the euro in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Slide 16 summarizes our 2012 financial outlook.
Our outlook for sales core operating earnings capital expenditures and free cash flow remains in line with the prior guidance.
We are projecting sales of approximately $14.3 billion in 2012 and core operating earnings in the range of $745 million to $785 million.
The 2012 outlook for free cash flow is approximately $275 million.
Tax expense is estimated to be approximately $130 million at the low end of the range from our prior outlook.
The decrease in tax expense reflects the change in the mix of earnings by country.
Net income is expected to be in the range of $520 million to $560 million up from the prior guidance primarily reflecting lower interest expense.
Depreciation and amortization is forecasted to be approximately $250 million down $5 million from the prior guidance.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Lear continues to deliver solid financial results as sales earnings and free cash flow all increased in the third quarter.
On a regional basis our core businesses are doing well in North America and Asia and remain profitable in Europe despite lower production in that region.
At present margins both businesses are generating returns in excess of our cost of capital.
We continue to invest in emerging markets to expand our capabilities and support growth and the benefits of the Guilford acquisition are being achieved.
We continue to win new business at a pace consistent with prior years and expect to provide an update on our backlog at the Detroit Auto Show in January.
Our balance sheet and strong operating performance is allowing us to continue to invest in the business take advantage of future market opportunities and return cash to shareholders.
In summary we are delivering solid operating performance in a challenging environment.
I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication.
I recognize the personal demands of providing world-class product and outstanding customer service are continuing to grow and expand our business globally.
Thank you for your efforts.
With that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question as we look at the Electronics business I mean it's about 50% higher on revenue than it was about 2 years ago.
Your profits are actually double.
A lot of conjecture there that you might make an acquisition on the Electronics business but it seems like you're growing pretty rapidly.
I mean is this the kind of business where you think you might be able to generate some real chunky organic growth and might not need to go out make an acquisition? Well we don't think we need to make an acquisition.
We would consider one that would help us add some scale because I think this business historically John has suffered a little bit from a lack of scale and the absorption of fixed costs.
That being said we have a healthy backlog in the segment.
I mean the backlog in this business is pretty sizable and higher as a percentage basis than Seating.
If there was an opportunity we'd consider it.
But we believe that we're penetrating the market we're gaining scale and we're increasing margins and returns while we're doing it.
So we don't necessarily need to do it but it's one that we would consider if the right opportunity presented itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
It sounds like Europe is pretty profitable for you probably not that far off the profitability of North America.
A little bit shocking given the market conditions over there and what's going on with automakers and the massive losses that are being printed.
Do you foresee any incremental pricing pressure or givebacks from your customers in Europe? Are you seeing that in near-term? Or would you expect that if we saw further deterioration in Europe? Well profit runs about half the target margins overall from -- that we've established for the 2 individual segments.
So it is down from North America but it is solidly profitable in let's say 3.5 range overall.
Yes I think whenever there's difficulties in the market from excess capacity you're going to see pressures to take costs out of your product.
Our customers are in a price-sensitive business for their products with a lot of excess capacity.
We think from our standpoint pricing really will be dependent on the ability to get cost out.
And in many cases we're in the best position to do that between our full engineering and vertical integration.
And it allows us to do it.
But in the end pricing will be dependent upon whether or not it's sustainable whether or not the program meets the returns that it needs to.
It's just kind of hard to get pricing in a down-production environment though quite frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly have you seen any choppiness in the key large programs in North America from your major customers? Just curious if you've seen any sort of disruption in schedules or anything that was unexpected maybe particularly in the GMT900 K2XX changeover or anything else like that.
No.
I think that's been pretty smooth.
And GM's been -- the production overall with a lot of our customers have been pretty stable in North America.
There hasn't been any near-term chop that we might have seen at other times.
North America has made a nice step in production volumes.
More importantly while they're down from the peaks that we saw 3 4 5 years ago John it's been steady.
And that's as important as anything.
It's not just the production end but it's how the production is achieved.
In the best case scenarios it's when a plant runs on a steady schedule and we've seen that in North America.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Matt can you talk a little bit about what do you think the midterm outlook is for the Seating margin -- the Seating business margin? Looks like it's probably going to be sub-6.5% in Q4.
Historically it's been a 7% margin-plus business.
Well of recent history it's been 7%-plus margins and we think the target longer term for this business is in the 7% range.
I think we're going to see some pressure that continues from the launch costs and performance in South America to continue into next year.
There's a lot of factors that go into it.
But I think the margins were going to be pressured heading into next year in this segment Pat.
Research Division</strong> That's actually helpful.
Can you also talk about your outlook for European production? There seems to be a disparity amongst some suppliers particularly versus where the IHS forecast is for Q4? Well our forecast right now for Europe is 16.6 million.
If you think the IHS is a little bit different than that but it's really rounding.
Our number is within I think 30 000 units from the IHS forecast so they're pretty much one in the same.
Research Division</strong> How's the overall visibility been tracking for Q4? Have you seen schedules continuing to move around a lot in the past couple of weeks? Yes.
They've continually -- unlike what Matt had alluded to in North America where the schedules have been fairly stable we've seen in many cases quite the opposite in Europe where we get announced down weeks pretty randomly.
So we've seen a continued chop in that region.
Research Division</strong> And Matt lastly can you just talk about what are the factors that would lead you to either accelerate or decelerate your buyback pace? Well the pace of the buyback is really a Board decision and it gets discussed every quarterly Board Meeting that we have.
The Board as you know made the initial authorization and then increased it to $700 million I believe earlier this year.
It's usually dependent upon alternate uses for investment but also the intrinsic value of the enterprise as it relates to the rest of the space.
But it's an area where the Board reviews it at every meeting pretty much Pat.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the capital structure question.
I was hoping we could maybe talk about where you see your ideal leverage maybe from a debt-to-EBITDA perspective.
Are you happy with your revolver capacity at the moment? Just if you could talk about the general M&amp;A climate out there right now? We think that it's extremely important from a competitive standpoint to maintain investment-grade metrics.
And from our standpoint that's any EBITDA gross EBITDA-to-debt ratio of 1.5 or below and we can still maintain that type of investment-grade profile.
Obviously right now we're significantly below that.
And while there's not a need for proceeds at the moment it's something that we keep an eye on as far as rates and availability.
From a revolver standpoint it's undersized for a company this size.
And we'd been looking to probably increase it to provide additional flexibility in the use of the cash.
But we would see something I think closer to $750 million to $1 billion being a more normal revolver for a company of our size.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And how about the M&amp;A climate in general in terms of what you'd been looking for? And then I thought -- I may have missed it earlier I logged in late to the call so I just want to apologize if I missed it.
No you didn't miss it.
You didn't miss it.
The environment for M&amp;A is actually getting a little bit better in that I think the expectations for multiples have -- should get more reasonable in light of the more difficult production environments particularly in Europe but we're also seeing maybe a little bit of a cooling of the multiples in Asia.
What we look for -- and we don't believe that there's a major acquisition needed or will be made -- but from a niche standpoint there may be an opportunity to gain scale in electrical gain component capabilities in emerging markets.
From a component standpoint we would possibly look at improving our I believe industry-leading surface material business and seat cover business as well as possibly extending our capabilities in connectors.
Those are the things that we'd look at but it comes down to valuations -- strategic fit and valuation.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly you're one of the few companies to reiterate guidance for 2012 so that's great.
But the range is still pretty wide.
So I was hoping maybe you could share what would cause you to be at the lower end versus the higher end and maybe if there's a bias at the moment the way you think you might come in? Yes.
There's not a bias.
It is a pretty wide range for this late in the year but I think it reflects the uncertainty in the production environment namely in Europe.
So really where we come in on that range will really dictated on not just the overall production but the production on our platforms.
Jeff mentioned that we're not getting a lot of advanced notice when we're pulling schedules back so we're being a little bit cautious at this point.
I think overall the guidance is balanced.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just getting back -- I don't want to harp on this too much -- but getting back to the long-term Seating margin target I'm just trying to understand how much is -- of achieving that target is dependent on volume? And I guess the question is if we really are entering this period of no-to-low growth in Europe for a period of 4 5 years can we still get back to that 7%-plus target? Yes I think we can Joe.
I think part of it is obviously volume.
And it's volume on the platforms that you're on.
And each platform has a slightly different financial footprint so to speak that's really more dependent upon the capital intensity of the program and the amount of upfront engineering that's required.
I think that we can get back to 7% even with slow growth environment in Europe but we need the growth or the stability on the platforms that we're on.
An important thing to note is that at the current performance in capital intensity of the business and level of vertical integration we are returning in excess of our cost to capital.
So from that standpoint I think that's a positive that we don't necessarily need to get to 7% to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I realize that it may be a little bit early to ask this question but it does -- if I recall correctly I think you were the seating supplier to the Genk plant that Ford just closed on the Mondeo.
Do you have any commentary there as to whether you can keep that business as they move that as they shut that production? Yes you are correct.
We are the seat supplier and we have a facility in Genk.
If Ford follows through with the plan that would obviously impact that production facility.
Typically just-in-time facilities are dedicated to a customer location.
And in this particular case that's also true.
So at this point we're still working through what that means for that location.
But you are correct that we do have that dedicated facility.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one if I could on the cash flow.
It looks like the guidance implies a very strong fourth quarter.
Is there anything unusual there? Is that just normal working capital seasonality? Well a big part of it is the -- exactly that working capital seasonality.
I think we've got roughly $200 million of free cash flow forecasted in Q4.
And the working capital component of that is pretty consistent with what we've seen in the fourth quarter last year.
Next question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my major questions have been asked.
I guess maybe just on a clarification.
So we did -- I think it was 6.1% Seating margins in the quarter.
If previously the guide was that margins should be flat versus first half which was about 6.7% you mentioned launch cost but I'm sure you knew those 90 days ago.
So I mean is the variance entirely explained by -- through the choppiness in European production schedules or was -- is there anything else in that that I'm missing? No.
I think launch was a little bit higher than we anticipated as the regulatory environment in South America created some disruption in production both for our customers that impacted us in our premiums.
And there's also the launch cost and the performance of South America was a little bit worse than we anticipated when we gave guidance.
And I think the European production environment was a little bit more choppy.
And I think those were the 2 main contributors to the performance.
But overall the performance of the business came in pretty much as expected for the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so Europe is obviously something that no one knows until we know.
South America I mean what's your experience been -- and when you go through periods of elevated launch costs how long does it typically take you to bring those back down in line? It's usually about 6 months but it's important to note that that region will continue to launch product.
And we mentioned a number of roughly 40% sales growth over an 18 to 24 months period.
So what we're seeing is rapid expansion in Brazil specifically but also to a lesser extent in Argentina.
And we are also expanding our capabilities down there to provide components for those finished assemblies.
So from that standpoint it's a period of massive growth and we'd expect elevated launch to continue into next year in that region.
Although we do expect the performance to improve but to be below target margins for each of the 2 product segments.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned earlier that you outperformed in Europe.
Any color on the mix impact going forward? I mean do you think you'll continue to be able to outperform in that region? I wouldn't say outperform.
I mean we -- our margins in that region are roughly half of what the target margins are for each of the 2 businesses.
That being said I think it was a solid performance and it's solidly profitable.
The mix impacts it.
And if they don't make the product you're on obviously that's a problem.
Right now the good news for us when we look at our European business is it's pretty diversified both between Seating and Electrical as well as customer and platform mix.
We're on both the high-end luxury vehicles that are performing fairly well but also the entry-level vehicles DNC platforms and as well as the customer mix.
So we're pretty diversified but we need our platforms to sell in the marketplace.
From a downward conversion standpoint on a variable basis we typically talk in Europe in the 15% to 20% downward conversion if there's a near-term pullback in sales.
Research Division</strong> You would say though your customer mix you're actually fairly in line with the market from the customer exposure you have in Europe? Overall I would say that that's true.
Overall I would say that that's a true comment yes.
Research Division</strong> And your -- I mean before Europe deteriorated I mean I was under the impression that Europe was actually a lower margin than North America because maybe a little less vertically integrated.
Is that the case? Or I mean so is this -- does that make it easier to manage the downturn? Colin that's absolutely the case in Seating.
In Electrical we're pretty consistent between the 2 regions.
But in Seating that is the case and it is driven by probably a lack of vertical integration.
I'll tell you no it doesn't make it a whole lot easier.
Because in many cases the adjusted time facilities are in locations that make it hard to flex your cost structure and your labor to meet a short-term downturn.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one.
Have you -- can you have any color on when your tax -- when you reverse the valuation allowance can you kind of go back to a normalized tax rate if you could have any guidance on that? Let me turn it over to my head of tax Bill McLaughlin.
Yes.
it's likely that our U.S.
valuation allowance will be reversed in the fourth quarter and then we will return to a more normalized tax rate in 2013 of something in the 30% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just want to follow up on the last question and talk a bit more strategically about how you think about your European cost base especially given where you are in the margins which actually sort of good news in there as it applies to North America actually had some pretty good margins.
But you've addressed this in the past you'd moved a lot of your Electrical out of Western Europe.
But would you have any go forward opportunities to recognizing just-in-time nature of Seating shift resources within those plants out of the high cost fixed cost locations? Are there other ways that you could actually reduce that European cost footprint and especially in light of the what you mentioned earlier the price-down requests and cost savings requests from your clients? Right.
I think in the near term there's not a whole lot to do because the vast majority of our component facilities if not all of them effectively are in low-cost manufacturing locations.
And I think for the most part they're operating at a fairly high level of capacity because we've taken so many actions over the last several years Brian.
From adjusted time standpoint is where we have the majority of our excess capacity.
And that's really dependent upon the actions that the customers are going to take.
If they shrink their footprint and it's a plant that we're dedicated as the just-in-time provider then and it gives us just an opportunity to maybe shrink our footprint with them after an initial obviously cost of shrinking.
So from our standpoint in the near-term there's not a whole lot we can do I'm pretty happy with our component footprint I think we've made a massive effort in investment to move the components into Eastern Europe as well as Northern Africa and that's doing really well for us.
In the end with the just-in-time locations it's really dependent upon the customer actions.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of just short- to mid-term contract workers any other leverage you could do with -- to pull the deal if they kind of continue choppiness and uncertainty around European plant-by-plant schedules? There's always thing you can do.
There's always things you can do.
And we do have some level of temporary workforce that we can flex a little bit but that's taken into consideration with the -- holding the line at a 15% to 20% downward conversion if there's further pullback in Europe.
The big driver of cost in many cases however is the launch cadence of product.
And what we're seeing from a customer is really not a delay in any way of launching new products.
So that's a little bit different than what we've seen in prior downturns.
The customers are all continuing to have the normal launch cadence and product development cadence which then requires us to invest in the upfront engineering.
Your next question comes from the line of Aditya Oberoi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to follow up on the situation in Europe here.
I understand that the volume schedules that you're getting are pretty volatile.
So is it fair to say that given that you're getting less time to flex your operations the decremental margins would be towards the high-end of the 15% to 20% that you're talking about? Well it really depends on the program.
But yes the less advance notice we have the higher the conversion would be.
But again it depends on the program and the level of vertical integration that we have on it Adi.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And one can you remind me of the profitability profile of Guilford Mills? Is it in line with your corporate average? Or do you guys have some bandwidth to improve the margins over there? I think it's all in all in line with the seat margins overall.
There are some opportunities that's improved both the sales growth and the cost structure as we look to synergize certain savings whether they're purchasing or outside service fees and things of that nature.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to come back to the discussion you were having about the capital structure.
That's a pretty big number you mentioned up to 1.5x to stay within the bounds of investment-grade.
And you mentioned that you're not anywhere near that.
The authorization is starting to run low.
You're down into the $200 million range.
You're going to generate almost that much cash flow in Q4 alone you said.
So are you suggesting that you may reaccelerate the pace of buybacks and maybe use of the balance sheet a little bit more to get there? No.
What I'm saying is we have the capability and obviously ample capacity to increase investing in a way that creates value for our shareholders whether that's first and foremost investing in the business organically looking for niche acquisitions that would facilitate the achievement of some of our key strategies to grow the business in the earnings profile and finally to buy back shares and return cash to our shareholders.
The pace of the buyback and the dividend is a Board decision and it's a decision or an evaluation that they make pretty much at every meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Seating margins they have been declining on a year-over-year basis for some time now.
I think this is the sixth quarter in a row.
You're suggesting that the launch costs and other upfront development costs are going to continue into 2013.
And then if I think about some other big changeovers the full-sized SUVs at GM will turnover in '14 and that's a big content program for you.
Is there a risk that you're going to be stuck in the 6s here for the next 2 years? There's a lot of drivers that go into the margin profile when you have a business that's over $10 billion in 100 locations around the world.
I think whenever new program comes out -- and it starts coming out next year actually -- it's an 18- to 24-month kind of changeover on the next-generation 900 Chris.
New programs typically do come on at a lower margin profile in the business.
It replaces because of the efficiencies both in manufacturing and in design that you gain over a life of the program and this one would be no different.
But there's other opportunities as well whether it's a pullback in commodity costs efficiency gains or just managing through some improvements in launch performance.
So there are a lot of different things that go in it.
But in a vacuum if you look at that changeover that would be probably a push lower on margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Brooks with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> A few quick questions here.
Can you give us a sense of profitability in Asia now and maybe what are your thoughts are 3 to 5 years out.
Well profitability is a little bit higher than target margins overall.
We do expect that to balance out more to the market or target margins for each of the segments as we can continue to grow and market pressure come into that segment.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then maybe an update on the IAC and your thoughts on monetizing that stake? Well I think as most people know we own 23% of that what we can consider a non-core joint venture for us.
Our desire is to exit that joint venture.
We continue to feel that way.
And with respect to the results there I think they've seen some positive things going on in North America and some chop in Europe as all of us have seen that chop.
But our desire is still to exit that joint venture and monetize it as soon as we see possible.
LLC</strong> All right.
And one last question just can you give us a sense of what South America is running at year-to-date as far as revenue? Revenue number Jeff? Well on a full year basis they'll be about $800 million in that range.
So my estimate would be roughly $600 million to $700 million through the third quarter.
Your last question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have a question regarding your initiative to try and achieve vertical integration in the Seating business and then grow your component capability.
Can you comment on where regionally you feel that you're already in a good shape from this point of view.
And where you're seeing that you need to achieve further integration in order to keep improving returns.
I think we're in really good shape in North America in all our major components including our seat cover business which I think is industry-leading as well as our seat structure business and our foam capabilities where we made significant investments for the last 5 or 6 years.
In Europe I think we're where we need to be as far as the seat cover business.
I think again it's segment-leading with the investments that we've made into northern Africa and Eastern Europe.
We have a pretty good footprint in structures.
I think though we could probably expand it a little bit.
And in foam I think there is some investment opportunities to invest in foam.
In Asia I think we could probably get better in all 3 segments although we have capabilities in all and pretty much every region in Asia whether it's China India OCEON [ph].
I think we're capable of doing all our major components in that region.
I just think that there's an opportunity to put greater capacity and then capabilities.
In South America we've made a significant investment in all those components including wire harnesses.
In South America I think we're in pretty good shape but as the business grows we want to do more of our own components there.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of I guess how future investments splits between doing that organically versus through acquisitions.
I mean I know a big part of your increased CapEx has to do with growing in components.
In the places where you're trying to grow are you -- is that going to be mostly organically or through acquisitions or balance? I anticipate that it'll be mostly organically through capital expenditures.
If we were able to identify a niche acquisition that would expedite or facilitate income with a book of business those expansion plans we would absolutely look at it but only if it was the right valuation.
And so we've got our feelers out.
But the reality is in many cases the best returns are our own organic investment and that's the path that we're taking right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on this topic.
Can you disclose at all what rough percentage of your Seating revenues currently are from component sales versus just complete seats? And maybe what's your goal if you have one in the midterm? It's very -- I don't have a goal.
I think as we get more vertically integrated and there's more direct to sourcing from our car companies you're going to see more of it sold outside.
But most of the components that we make right now are used on our seats and that'll probably continue to be a trend.
One exception to that rule is Guilford.
Guilford is roughly $400 million in sales and the vast majority of that are external to Lear although there is a small portion maybe 10% or so that is sold internally to Lear.
With that that's the last question.
Probably who remains on the call is the Lear employees.
I want to thank all of you for your long hours and hard work and efforts.
You're the reason why we're successful and I want to thank you for all your efforts.
So thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Martina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Lowenfeld Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lowenfeld.
Thank you Martina.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining as for our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company overview.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our fourth quarter and full year financial results for 2012 and outlook for 2013 then Matt will come back with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide #4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
Despite a challenging industry environment in Europe Lear posted strong financial results in the fourth quarter with the improvement in sales earnings and free cash flow.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $3.7 billion up 6% from a year ago reflecting the benefit in new business and the Guilford acquisition partially offset by adverse impact of foreign exchange.
Lower production in Europe was largely offset by increased productions in other regions of the world.
Adjusted earnings per share was $1.48 per share up 17% from a year ago and free cash flow was $219 million.
Our Electrical business continues its rapid growth and achieved a quarterly sales record of $959 million in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted margins improved to 8.4% from 6.3% last year as the business continues to benefit from sales growth market share gains and cost benefits from our improved footprint.
We continue to return cash to shareholders.
In the fourth quarter we returned $64 million to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
Since the inception of these programs in the first quarter of 2011 we have returned $608 million to our shareholders.
Moving to the full year.
2012 marked our third consecutive year of higher revenue and earnings per share where revenues of $14.6 billion and earnings per share of $5.49 per share.
As outlined on Slide 5 our sales are well balanced by region and by customer.
We have made steady progress diversifying our sales over the last several years with over 60% of our total sales in 2012 coming from outside of North America.
The Asia Pacific region continues to grow representing 17% of our consolidated worldwide sales.
In addition we have $1.7 billion in sales at our core nonconsolidated joint venture further diversifying our sales profile.
Slide 6 shows our growth in key emerging markets.
Our consolidated sales in China Brazil India and Russia have more than doubled over the past several years from $1.2 billion in 2008 to $2.7 billion in 2012.
This represents an annual growth rate of 23% versus the industry growth in these markets of 17%.
Lear's total sales in China including nonconsolidated sales of approximately $950 million are $2.4 billion.
Since 2008 total sales in China have tripled.
Slide 7 shows our 3-year sales backlog which is unchanged from what we reported at the Detroit Auto Show last month.
As a reminder our backlog only includes awarded programs net of loss business and programs rolling off.
We do not include pursued or high-confidence new business or nonconsolidated sales.
The backlog is based on specific car line volumes and foreign exchange assumptions by country.
Our backlog for the 2013 through 2015 period stands at $1.8 billion.
The backlog continues to represent further diversification of our sales as 55% is in our Seating business and 45% is in EPMS.
We are growing our sales in all regions of the world.
For 2015 there's still open sourcing so we do expect that number to increase as new programs are awarded over the next several months.
Slide 8 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the fourth quarter we purchased 1.2 million shares of stock for a total of $50 million.
We have been repurchasing shares since early 2011.
Through the end of 2012 we have invested approximately $500 million to repurchase 11.5 million shares or about 11% of our shares since the program began.
Following the $800 million increase in our share repurchase authorization in January we have a remaining authorization of $1 billion over the next 3 years.
The available repurchase authorization reflects approximately 20% of our market cap at current prices.
Going forward we plan to continue to buy shares consistently subject to the company's alternative uses of capital and prevailing financial and market conditions.
Slide 9 highlights the key elements of our strategy.
We have the product expertise global reach competitive footprint and financial flexibility to profitably grow our business.
We plan to continue to invest in the emerging market and expand our low-cost component capabilities to further improve our competitiveness and to support future profitable sales growth.
We're well positioned for the industry trends towards global platforms and increasing electrical content as well as directed component sourcing.
We are evaluating certain niche acquisitions that will complement our present product offering facilitate diversification of our sales and further increase our component capabilities in emerging markets.
No transformational acquisitions are needed or planned.
Going forward we plan to continue to invest in our core businesses while maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet.
At the same time we plan to continue to return cash to shareholders on a consistent basis.
Now I'll turn over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 11 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In the quarter 20 million vehicles were produced globally up 2% from 2011.
As Matt mentioned business conditions in Europe remained challenging in the fourth quarter as industry production decreased by 8%.
In North America the recovery continued with industry production up 10%.
China's production increased 4% versus last year.
For the full year global vehicle production was a record 79.7 million units up 7% from 2011 reflecting increases in all major markets except Europe.
Slide 12 shows our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012.
As previously mentioned fourth quarter sales were up 6% to $3.7 billion.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange Lear's sales in the quarter were up 8%.
For the full year sales were $14.6 billion up 3%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange Lear's sales in 2012 were up 7%.
In the fourth quarter pretax income before equity loss interest and other income was $159 million up $57 million from a year ago.
For the full year pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $705 million up $26 million from 2011.
Interest expense was $10 million in the fourth quarter down $5 million primarily reflecting the favorable settlement of tax matters in foreign jurisdictions.
For the full year interest expense was $50 million up $10 million primarily reflecting the favorable settlement of a tax matter in 2011.
During the quarter net income was impacted by $767 million in onetime tax benefits related primarily to the release of our valuation allowance in the U.S.
In addition equity and net income loss from affiliates as well as other income expense were also impacted by onetime items during the fourth quarter.
I'll provide more details on those items on the next slide.
Slide 13 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our fourth quarter results.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $45 million of restructuring costs primarily related to the planned closure of our Genk Belgium facility as well as various census-related actions.
Other special items include $13 million of income primarily reflecting insurance settlements.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $191 million up $15 million from 2011.
The increase in earnings reflects new business and operating improvements partially offset by increased product and facility launch costs primarily in South America and higher program development costs associated with the sales backlog.
Equity loss in the fourth quarter includes special items of $11.8 million related primarily to impairment and restructuring charges at one of our noncore joint ventures.
Other income in the fourth quarter includes special items of $14.2 million reflecting insurance settlements.
Net income in the fourth quarter includes tax benefits of $767 million primarily related to the value -- through the reversal of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets in the U.S.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the fourth quarter was $145 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.48.
Slide 14 provides a summary of free cash flow.
We generated $219 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter and $291 million for the full year.
We finished the year with cash of $1.4 billion.
Capital expenditures were $439 million in 2012 up $113 million from 2011 reflecting increased investment in component capabilities and the emerging markets.
Slide 15 provides a tax update.
As mentioned previously in the fourth quarter based on our profitability in the U.S.
over the past 3 years and our outlook for continued profitability we released a significant portion of our valuation allowance related to our deferred taxes in the U.S.
This resulted in a onetime tax benefit of $739 million.
And in 2013 we expect a more normalized effective tax rate of approximately 30%.
We continue to have global tax attributes in excess of $1.1 billion which will reduce our cash taxes for the next several years.
Approximately 45% of the tax attributes relate to the U.S.
with the remainder in foreign countries.
These tax attributes can be used to offset approximately $3.6 billion of future taxable income.
The vast majority of our tax attributes either have no expiration date or a 20-year life providing the company with ample opportunity to realize these benefits.
Lear's cash tax rate is expected to be approximately 20% for the next several years reflecting the benefit of our global tax attributes.
Slide 17 summarizes industry production assumptions for 2013.
Global industry production is forecasted to grow from 79.7 million units in 2012 to 80.7 million units in 2013 an increase of 1%.
Production in North America is forecast to increase by 1% to 15.6 million units and production in Europe is forecasted to decline by approximately 4% to 16.2 million units.
Growth in the emerging markets is expected to continue with production in both China and India forecasted to grow by 9% in 2013.
Our 2013 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.28 per euro.
Slide 18 summarizes our financial outlook for 2013 which is unchanged from what we announced at the Detroit Auto Show.
For 2013 Lear expects net sales to increase to $15 billion to $15.5 billion primarily reflecting the impact of our sales backlog.
Core operating earnings are forecasted in the range of $725 million to $775 million relatively flat with 2012 reflecting higher sales offset by lower production in Europe and key program changeovers.
Interest expense in 2013 is expected to increase to about $80 million up from 2012 reflecting primarily the impact of the new $500 million bond.
Tax expense is estimated to be $195 million to $210 million reflecting the increase in our effective tax rate to approximately 30%.
As mentioned previously given our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20% for the next several years.
Capital expenditures are expected to remain elevated in 2013 at approximately $450 million reflecting our strong sales backlog as well as additional investment in component capabilities and the emerging markets.
Free cash flow for 2013 is forecasted at $275 million.
Now I'll turn it back over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Lear continues to deliver solid financial results and 2012 was our third consecutive year of higher sales and earnings per share.
We also continue to make progress on achieving our strategic objectives.
We believe that the investments we've been making in components and emerging markets will provide benefits and lead to improved results going forward.
Our strong and flexible balance sheet will allow us to continue to profitably grow our business and create value for our shareholders.
In closing I want to thank the Lear team for their hard work and dedication.
I'm confident with your support that Lear will continue to be successful.
With that we'd be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can help us in terms of thinking about the cadence of earnings and margins throughout the year just how should we prepare for the first couple of quarters at least given the volatility in some of the production schedules there.
Yes I think what we're seeing from our side is a pretty normal I would say seasonality if there's such a thing.
A little bit stronger in the first half a little bit weaker in the second half driven by the third quarter shutdown more than anything.
The margin should be pretty consistent around that overall 5% number first half to second half.
So it's a year without a meaningful spike or hockey stick or in that regard a pullback.
We just think it's going to be a fairly steady year in -- based on the production cadence that we see at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on the pace of buybacks and cash deployment can you help us a little bit more in terms of how we should think about it? You did issue some debt which would be a bit dilutive given the increase in interest expense.
So should we think about the deployment to be a bit more front-end loaded in the next 3 years as opposed to how it's proceeded in the past 2 years? Well I think the increase of the authorization of $800 million is a fairly significant step-up obviously in the pace that we've been buying at over the first 2 years.
The open $1 billion authorization over 3 years would imply a rate of slightly over $80 million a quarter.
From our standpoint I think what you should assume is that we buy in a pace that's consistent throughout the period contingent upon prevailing market conditions.
So I wouldn't expect it to be different at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just lastly a quick housekeeping.
Can you share what you've assumed for 2013 production for the GMT900/K2XX platform? We've assumed production volumes that are relatively flat year-over-year with 2012 I think at 1 040 000 vehicles.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first 2 questions on the Seating margins.
In Detroit you went through a bit of guidance suggesting the Seating margins go down about 100 basis points in 2013.
Can you just give us a little bit more on what exactly is driving that? I think you mentioned launches but should we be thinking something like 20% of your business goes down 500 basis points? Is that what you were referring to on the launches? And is there any improvement expected in Latin America? And then to follow on -- up on that how should we be thinking about a reasonable magnitude of improvement as you go out to 2014 once you've kind of cleared through some of these big launches? What -- the key drivers in this business or probably the 3 major drivers as far as the margin erosion Rod is first off the programs that are changing over are relatively significant this year as far as just a sheer revenue standpoint.
And that is probably about in itself maybe 100 basis points just because of new programs coming in at lower margins as we become more efficient in both our design and manufacturing process.
European decrease in volumes and mix is also impacting that probably about half of that.
And the other piece of it while we expect South America to return to profitability it's still significantly low the run rate of the segment overall.
We'd expect these trends to continue throughout the year and then start improving heading into '14.
Research Division</strong> So does the 100 basis points that you experienced from these launches does that fully recover in the second year? Or is there some kind of a normal trajectory that you can sort of give us some feel for? Not completely Rod because the program portfolio changeover continues into next year as well.
We would expect to see some improvement heading into next year but I wouldn't expect it to be a snap back.
Research Division</strong> So you wouldn't necessarily get back to the 2012 margins in Seating as -- based...
Not necessarily.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly when you gave the guidance I think you were assuming a weaker euro.
What was it $1.28? It's now $1.36.
If we wanted to adjust for that would we apply the corporate average margin or are European margins somewhat below that now? I think as we've said on calls before the margin as it relates to ups and downs on FX are normally around the 3% to 4% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly...
I'm just going to say Rod on the conversion of that from a revenue standpoint each $0.01 kind of change in the euro to the U.S.
dollar is worth about $40 million annually if you're trying to do the math.
Research Division</strong> And just one last housekeeping thing.
I think when you made the acquisition you suggested that it was sort of at the corporate average margins.
Was that actually the case over the course of 2012? You're referring to the Guilford Mills acquisition and yes that is the case.
It probably came in at target margins for the segment overall Rod.
So it's pretty consistent with the segment and in line with our expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question on Electrical.
You continue to beat sort of our expectations and I think are performing relatively well relative to your expectations as well on the sales line there.
I'm just curious what's really driving that upside specifically there.
Is that just volume or is it mix or is there backlog rolling on faster? I'm just trying to understand really what the outperformance is being driven by there.
Well this is a segment where the content per vehicle is actually increasing.
So we do benefit probably disproportionately in this product group than just sheer volume John.
The real benefit however is coming from the backlog.
This segment has grown faster on a percentage basis than Seating as we continued to gain share.
And I think that's really a function of the investments that we've made restructuring it in our footprint and in our product portfolio whether it's the solid-state junction boxes some of the innovations we've had there to -- some of the innovations we've had in our connector systems are ultimately high powered.
So I think it's a combination of factors.
But probably the biggest one is we're penetrating and we're gaining share in this space.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing in the quarter that was really -- had to do with mix or anything -- any program really ramping up? This is more sustainable than just really something that happened in the quarter? We believe the performance is sustainable from the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question just on quoting that might roll into the backlog.
Any rough figures on what you're quoting on right now in addition to the $1.8 billion that you've already booked? Yes.
I mean if you look at how we improve 2014 from a year ago I think that number is up a couple hundred million dollars from when we announced the backlog back last January.
I'd expect that same type of net new business coming in at least on the outer year on the 15-year as there's still open sourcing in that segment in that time frame.
Research Division</strong> That's incredibly helpful.
And then just if we think about the GM truck launch obviously that's a big one for you.
Is that still in the ballpark of 10% of your sales? Is it that important to the business? It's about that size.
It's about that size Murphy.
Research Division</strong> So when you're talking about these changeovers obviously we have the pickups this year and the SUVs at the beginning of next year.
I mean that's a pretty big deal for the company.
And once you get through that that should be something that helps normalize margins when once you get through that sort of mid-'14.
That's a big driver on the program portfolio.
And as we launch new programs which is typical in the space they typically come on at a lower margin than the business that they're replacing as you work through your engineering changes and your cost reductions and your efficiencies at the plant.
So yes we would expect to add as we digest that launch with 1 million units spread out over a couple of years that we would see some improvement in the segment.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly just a simple question on working capital.
Jeff as you're looking at your free cash flow forecast are you looking for a working capital a small working capital used similar in 2013 to what you did in 2012? Is that a fair assumption roughly? Yes.
I think working capital for the full year 2013 is going to be a use of cash.
Our next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Matt we've seen some other suppliers take cost actions or restructuring actions in Europe given the structural issues with that market.
And given that that's a bit of a drag on your margins as well is that something that you guys are looking at? Well you're always looking at your infrastructure cost especially in light of what is we believe is going to be a little bit of a sustained pullback.
The one thing I'd like to note is that we started our restructuring program several years back and we're approaching $1 billion of investment and a good portion of that has been in Europe.
And we remain even in the downturn solidly profitable in both segments in that region of the world.
We are looking for opportunities to restructure there or do some additional restructuring.
But we've been doing it all along.
And I would say that's really probably not a whole lot different than what we do in any other region of the world even in ones that are growing or constantly challenging your footprint.
Obviously the pullback in Europe from what was a high of 20 million units which is now around 15 million provides some opportunity to make those types of investments and we're looking to do that.
But I can't see it being at this point being hugely significant.
Research Division</strong> Any larger actions needed there around some of the OEM plant closures that have been announced? Well I would expect that there'll be more coming just because of the excess capacity that's in the segment.
So I would expect I think all the OEMs are looking at a way to balance their production capacity to what they believe is the sustainable production estimates that are looking out over the next several years.
So I would expect some more OEM actions quite frankly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally a big picture question.
Now that you and the other seating suppliers have made a bunch of component acquisitions over the last several years do you see any change in the way the OEMs are -- changing the way they source components? Are they more comfortable giving you guys full seat contracts now that you have a much better vertical integration efficiency? No I don't think that's really changed.
I think the -- it's been fairly consistent sourcing.
There may be some nuances to it that are different.
I just think that in order to be a Tier 1 seat provider you have to have full design capabilities first and foremost the ability to assemble in a just-in-time nature.
You have to have global reach because there's a rotation to global programs.
And you have to be able to design and assemble the major subcomponents of the seat because it's the key driver of cost and quality.
And I think what you're seeing as some of the others in the space are trying to get that vertical integration is a recognition of the drivers in quality and cost.
For us it's been a good investment and we've made nice returns in those subsegments.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I know you don't talk or you don't put this on the slide the kind of order in the pipeline pre-backlog activity but just a kind of couple questions around that.
First are there different lead times on Seating versus Electrical? I tried to discern a pattern in the growth of the 2013 and 2014 pattern but it didn't see one.
And then the second question is given these high margins in Electrical as others have noted and the sort of lower-than-typical margins in Seating how does the ROIC look between those 2 divisions? And then how does it affect the kind of business you go out and quote for and where you put the additional $50 million of CapEx as you think about going after business? I would start with your first question which is the lead time.
And I would tell you that if you have full design responsibilities the lead times are pretty consistent between the 2 products Seating and Electrical Distribution to about 3 years.
2.5 to 3 years.
The OEs are working hard to shorten that and we're seeing some shortening of award to start a production.
But I would say between 2.5 and 3 years is probably the norm at this point.
If it's build-to-print or a running change as they say in the industry then it can be much shorter.
But the vast majority of what we do is the 2.5 to 3-year because we do have full design capabilities in most cases.
As far as margins in Electrical and return on investment the return on investment in both segments are fairly consistent and both are performing slightly above our cost of capital right now.
From an investment standpoint we believe that the investment in Electrical space with this current mass and market position has great returns.
But we also believe the same for Seating where we have a solid #2 position.
And I think we can leverage that position to take advantage of some of these global platforms.
So whether it's connectors in China or seat cover business in South America we're making a nice return on both those investments.
And so I would tell you in the incremental capital we don't necessarily steer to Electrical or to Seating.
We have opportunities in both.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the quoting activity as we think about where 2014 and 2015 backlog may go any difference in the mix between the 55-45 the backlog currently is? Because this looks like it's 50-50 in the out year.
Yes I would tell you that -- I would tell you Brian that I would expect it to kind of get back to more normalized.
While we're penetrating a little bit faster in Electrical I wouldn't expect a 50-50 split to continue.
I would expect it to again kind of tip a little bit more toward Seating just because of the sheer size of that segment in relation to the $4 billion that we have in Electrical.
The cadence of sourcing is -- it's a pretty normal year coming up.
I don't see it accelerating.
In the same token I don't see it slowing.
And I think it's just a pretty normal year coming forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ceraso from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to come back to a couple of things.
You mentioned that you thought this would look like a relatively normal year in terms of the distribution of earnings first half versus second half.
I was hoping you could revisit that a little bit because it looks like most third-party estimates for the build rates certainly in Europe is much more back-half weighted than front-half weighted.
So why is it that your earnings would not be somewhat tilted that way as well? What I said was that I thought the sales were going to be a little bit more front-half loaded just because of the shutdown that you typically see in the third quarter for both product changeovers in Europe and vacations Chris.
I thought the margin distribution would be relatively consistent first half to second half at -- I mean right around 5% on average first half to second half.
That's driven by a lot of different things.
One is the step-up in program changeovers in the back half of the year versus the front half offset by the production cadence.
So there's literally thousands of inputs that go into projecting a company of this size global reach and size and complexity.
From our standpoint we don't see a major spike in the margins or decrease in the margins.
It's a pretty normal seasonal year with the third quarter from a revenue standpoint being down which is more normal.
So the sales will be a little bit front-half loaded to the first half -- or first half over the second half.
And I think the margins stay right around that 5% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I can paraphrase maybe yes there are double-digit production declines in Q1 in Europe but you also have a heavier concentration of changeovers in the back half and those 2 things kind of balance out? That would be a good way of putting it yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question.
I don't think I'm making this up but I thought when we were in Detroit and you were making your presentation you had mentioned that you thought longer term you could get Seating margins to something in the 5.5% 6% maybe 6.5% range which sounded like a departure from your previously-held long-term guidance which was for Seating margins to be in the 7% to 8% range.
Is that right? Are you kind of backing away from that 7% to 8%? And if so is it -- why is that? Did you think that maybe you were over-earning when you were doing 7% or 8% because of strong build rates on certain programs? Can you explain? No there's really no change.
It's just a function of timing and maybe the product changeover.
The European production volume is obviously a lot weaker than what we thought and the recovery is going to be a lot slower than we initially thought based on what IHS is seeing and what we're seeing as well.
I do believe we could see it climb back in the relatively near term into the 6% range.
And I think longer term 7% -- over 7% makes sense for a lot of reasons.
One of which is really to me margins are more a function of investment and the investment required.
So as we go into our vertical integration strategy and component strategy and expand our capabilities there I believe that the returns will follow.
And to us margins are just an outcome of investment and getting the return on investment that you need.
So to me we don't believe longer term that 7% is out.
There's really been no change in that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's just a function of over the next year or 2 or so it may be stuck in the 6% range.
But longer term you still think you can get there? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is about the backlog the $850 million.
I'm hoping you can maybe identify a few of the major programs that contribute to that including on the GM trucks.
Do you have increased content versus the current program decreased or about the same? What I would tell you on the GM trucks it's not really net in the backlog because it's a replacement program.
And the way we define backlog is net new business.
So from that standpoint I would tell you that it's not really a meaningful change at all.
Jeff why don't you take them through some of the programs that we're rolling up this year.
Yes.
Just some of the larger programs in terms of marquee size is the Ford Focus program which is conquest business for us.
That's probably the largest single item.
We've got some European business across the board probably the biggest of which is the seat assembly on the Maserati Quattroporte.
I mean there's literally hundreds of these things.
But probably the biggest of which are those 2 coupled with also in Europe on the EPMS side the Land Rover/Range Rover businesses is very significant for us in total and certainly for that segment.
Your next question comes from the line of ID Oberoi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on the margins in the EPMS segment.
If you annualized the run rate of revenue that you guys did in the fourth quarter that kind of implies almost $4 billion in revenue.
And the margins at least in the fourth quarter were at 8% close to 8.5%.
As we go forward and the revenue continues to grow in that segment can you just talk about the puts and takes that would impact margins from the 8.4% levels? Yes.
I think that we believe we can continue to grow that segment profitably and we believe that we can do about 8% this year in that segment.
The key drivers on margin again is it depends on the type of business that we win and the capital requirements associated with it.
For instance wire harnesses -- the portion of wire harnesses in Electrical Distribution systems are really not that capital intensive.
It's very much like a just-in-time assembly plant.
On the other hand the electronic boxes and connectors are more capital intensive and require a little bit higher electrical engineering content as well and they would support having a higher margin.
Right now what I would say Adi is that -- just assume that we can maintain the kind of run rate margins that we enjoyed in the fourth quarter as we continue to grow that business profitably.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful guys.
And the second question is on the capital deployment.
With the debt deal that you recently did your -- I think your net cash position probably would stand close to $1.9 billion.
And the run rate of the cash towards buyback that you are implying kind of means a $320 million $330 million buyback annually which is more or less the normalized cash flow that you would generate in a normal year right? So can you talk about where do you plan to utilize this $1.9 billion of cash in the near term? Right.
We've been pretty consistent with how we talk about cash and capital structure allocation.
It's really not a whole lot different.
What we want to do is continue to look for opportunities to make niche acquisitions which will -- not unlike Guilford and the size of Guilford Guilford Mills which will diversify our sales provide another platform for profitable growth and also provide component capabilities ideally in low-cost margins -- or low-cost regions of the world.
We also believe there's opportunity through organic investment to step up our capital expenditures and provide again another vehicle for profitable growth and investment.
Thirdly we have $1 billion of authorization available for share repurchase based on prevailing market conditions and the financial positioning and valuations and we look to do that.
And then we also return cash through dividends.
So we're happy with the amount of leverage right now.
I think we took advantage of the nice credit market environment to lower our long-term borrowing cost and provide flexibility to create value in a lot of different ways.
Research Division</strong> All right got it.
And finally one housekeeping question.
On the backlog you said that there's some upside risk to the 2015 number because there's still some open sourcing.
Is it primarily the EPMS segment or is it both Seating and EPMS? I would expect both segments to grow in that period.
Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Firstly one more question on the I guess the production cadence starting this year.
Can you please tell us what you're seeing currently in Europe in the -- I guess so far in the first quarter and then for next few weeks? I think a lot of estimates are looking forward double-digit declines as was pointed out before.
But I mean Johnson Controls for example was guiding to down 14% in Western Europe.
Is that the sort of magnitude you guys are seeing? And also how is the mix playing out over there at the beginning of the year for you? I think relative to the volume itself we generally utilize IHS volumes in planning.
And IHS as several of you have alluded to is down in the first quarter.
As it relates to mix what we're seeing there is that our general mix of vehicles is likely to be down greater than the overall industry average at least in the first quarter and potentially extending beyond the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
That's a function of what? Well the key car lines we're on -- I mean right now the good news about Europe for Lear Corporation is that we're well represented in all the segments.
We have a good portfolio business that reflects both the customer and platform diversity in the segment.
What it does mean from a mix standpoint is it's -- we don't sell to the industry.
We sell to certain car lines and those carlines would be impacted by the decrease in volumes.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then I guess turning to your efforts to grow Europe components capability.
The acquisitions that you're looking at can you maybe characterize the environment for those acquisitions? Obviously a lot of automakers -- a lot of suppliers have been consolidating and growing more vertically.
So are there still lots of assets available? Are the valuations generally reasonable? Can you talk a little bit about the sort of environment you're encountering there? Well it's a difficult environment because everybody is kind of looking for the same thing.
I don't believe there's a silver bullet out there but I do believe there's nice niche acquisitions that can be executed at a fair value where the value is greater than the sum of the parts.
I still think throughout there.
We've had a very active process over the last several years.
I think the key is to find the right one at the right value that can help the business strategically but also create shareholder value for our investors.
They're out there.
You've got to work really hard to find them and to cultivate them because in many cases the best strategic fits are not necessarily assets that are for sale.
And so you need to start to dialogue with the ownership groups.
There are valuations a little bit lower in Europe a little bit higher in Asia would probably be how I would characterize it.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just one housekeeping to finish.
On the restructuring costs so you're getting for -- $50 million for 2013.
Is that a similar amount on a cash basis? And then more specifically obviously you incurred almost $45 million or $50 million this quarter related to the Genk facility but my understanding is obviously that Ford will continue to produce therefore so that's more time.
So when do you expect that cash to come out? I think generally speaking for 2013 the expense will generally mirror the cash with the largest portion that's being as you mentioned related to the Genk closure.
Research Division</strong> So you'd expect the cash for Genk to actually go out this year? Some of it.
Some of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the EPMS segment you're at about mid-8% now and your target is 8% for '13.
So I mean is it just a factor of the weaker sales? Or are there other factors that kind of make it slightly lower going through the rest of next year? What's kind of driving the sequential decline? That was about it.
There's thousands literally thousands of inputs that go in there.
But overall Colin what I would say is that it's really just a function of the mix of the products that you're on.
This segment has a significant portion of their revenues in Europe as well.
And so they're impacted by the downturn there which hits them a little bit disproportionately over seating from a percentage standpoint.
But all in all we think it's going to be good business in the 8% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any color on the pricing environment in Europe and in China? I mean obviously with the volumes coming down are you getting a lot more pricing pressure from the OEMs? And I know in China as well it seems like pricing is an issue for the OEMs.
Were they putting pressure on you there? Yes it's been -- it's a tough pricing environment.
We typically run at about 2% net give-backs.
The cost reductions we're able to provide to our customers however were significantly higher than that.
Because through our ability to control the value stream so to speak and the vertical integration and our design capabilities we have the opportunity to provide I think greater savings than many through value engineering.
So the pressures are huge as you would expect because of the downturn and because of the consumer nature of purchasing of vehicle is price sensitive.
And we however I believe are in better shape than many of them to provide cost reductions to our customers in these components because of our global reach and our vertical integration.
So long answer short question it's a tough environment but it's not a whole lot different than what it's been.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one.
In terms of your $1.4 billion in cash any update on how much is that -- of that is in the U.S.? And is there any risk that you may need to repatriate some of that? Let's turn you over to Shari Burgess our Treasurer.
Just approximately 1/3 of it is in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> What was that? Approximately 1/3 of it is in the U.S.
I think we've got a pretty efficient cash structure which allows the vast majority of our cash to be used for daily needs.
There's probably only about -- I want to say $200 Shari that would be a little bit inefficient to come back for daily purposes? Yes there's a couple hundred that it would take more than a day or 2 to get back because you need some government approvals.
But we have a very extensive network of intercompany loans that allows us to bring back the cash as needed to the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Without incurring repatriation tax? Limited additional income taxes.
There might be some withholding taxes here or there but it's pretty minor.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the CapEx.
'13's another elevated year.
I think at the mid-point it's about 3% of sales and that's 2 years in a row now.
If you look at the backlog the past couple of years have been higher EPMS sales.
And then it looks like it shifts a little bit back more towards Seating in the outer years.
So should we expect that the CapEx rate comes back down to that about 2% of sales that you think is more normal? I think we -- I mean we've made some really nice investments over the last several years.
I think the number is about $300 million on the component capabilities in the emerging markets.
Things like connectors plants in China and electrical distribution plants in South America Brazil and Northern Africa those have provided not only access to low-cost components but it's also facilitating the growth in many cases because we're able to leverage those facilities to grow the top line.
I quite frankly would like capital to increase because I think that would provide opportunities to increase returns and further grow our sales.
From a planning perspective though I would probably assume 2% to 2.5% in the outer periods at this time Joe.
If we had the opportunity to invest we would step it up because we're making nice returns and they're paying dividends through the sales growth.
Key driver obviously to any capital is production numbers and backlog.
So right now as the backlog stands we would see a decrease in '14 and that should also drive the capital down.
So again I would probably just use 2% to 2.5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just back on the cash I was just wondering you've clearly made some progress on the share repurchases.
Has there been any additional thought given to the dividend maybe getting the yield more in line with an S&amp;P 500 average? Yes.
If you look back 2 years ago we initiated the dividend.
And then last year in February we increased it.
I think you need to look at the 2 actions combined.
While many have a yield higher than us not many have both a dividend and a significant share repurchase like Lear does.
I know the dividend -- the size of the dividend and the potential increase will be considered by the board here shortly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe one housekeeping for Jeff.
If you could give us -- if you have it already an update on the pension funded status how that closed at the end of the year? The funding status of the pension plan increased slightly on a year-over-year basis largely attributable to the acquisition of Guilford.
So the lion's -- clearly [ph] all the increase is going to be attributable to the acquisition of Guilford and the unfunded pension that came from that acquisition.
Right now we would expect that to be -- I mean for a company our size even with Guilford between the OPEB and the pension the legacy liabilities so to speak are very very modest.
I mean we've closed most -- the vast majority of our plants.
So really we're kind ebb and flow with the discount rates.
Right now the unfunded status is slightly above $500 million.
It's not that meaningful for a company our size.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's combined with the OPEB? Yes that's combined with the OPEB right.
I think the split on that is roughly $175 million OPEB and...
$350 million $360 million on pension.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Nesvold from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the quarter you really haven't answered.
I'm sure you get the question a lot about the difference in the margins between you and some of your competitors but can you just walk me through briefly? I mean how have you really been able to sustain the margin advantage relative to others particularly in Seating and particularly in Europe number one? And then number two how do you sustain that going forward? How do you not get dragged down to the level were others are at? Well I think it's really -- it's actually pretty independent.
I can't really speak to our competitors.
What I can tell you is we've invested in restructuring and the vast majority of that was in Europe as well as other places.
I mean to turn the clock back since we started this journey we spent about $1 billion on restructuring our footprint.
So a lot of the actions that we had to take we've taken.
And we've benefited from that and you can see it in the margins.
So from our standpoint I think each one is independent.
At the end of the day we need to make right decisions for Lear Corporation.
We believe we can compete and we believe we can grow the top line profitably based on our capabilities.
At this point I think roughly 90% of our component facilities are in low-cost markets or at least 90% of the employment 80% of the components are in low-cost regions of the world or emerging markets.
I think we're seeing the benefit of that as the car companies are -- the major Western companies are going to a global platform.
So we're confident that we can continue to grow margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back first to Rod's margins question and with regards to the 100 basis point margin impact due to the program changes and it sounds like you're going to get the bulk of it back as you're moving to 2014.
But my question is do you -- when do you possibly see getting that full 100 basis points back? Is it out into 2015 or is by the time you get to the mid-2014 when you've kind of worked your way through these major changeovers? The model -- the program portfolio vast majority of our program portfolio in Seating changes over over the next -- this year and next.
And I think that needs to settle down before we get the full benefit of those basis point improvements.
The thing to note though Brett is that there are many inputs to margins whether it's European volume and mix or North American sales hopefully in car lines that you provide the seats to the actual operations of the facilities.
So it's a lot of issues driving margins.
The one particular as related to program portfolio changeovers we would expect it to get better once we get it behind us and we expect to get it behind us in '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kind of by the end of 2014 or is that -- that's the idea? Is that what I'm hearing? Yes that is what -- that is the idea.
Research Division</strong> And then South America.
I think during the auto show you'd talked about that being roughly 100 basis point headwind.
I could be incorrect there so if I am please feel free to correct me.
But how do we think about the progression of margins there? Well we went -- we became unprofitable in the second half of the year.
And the 100 basis points that you're mentioning relates to the year-over-year performance erosion or the impact on Seating in South America alone.
So in the back half of the year it was worth about 100 basis points because that program -- that region was underperforming and actually went to unprofitable results.
We expect this year to return to modest profitability but significantly below the margins for the group overall.
We'd expect that trend to continue to improve as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to the backlog.
If I were to dial the clock back a couple of years and look at your 2013 backlog your 2013 backlog was $400 million and now it's $850 million so a $450 million increase.
Almost a doubling.
A very significant increase.
And you can kind of see a similar progression on the 2014 backlog.
My question is as you look at your 2015 backlog there's $300 million and you think about the Seating you think about the Electrical business is it unrealistic to think that as has occurred in the past that you could see almost double that in terms of the backlog by the time you get to 2015? Currently it's $300 million.
Could it be as high as $600 million.
That sounded reasonable to assume that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Obviously the margins in the Electrical business are doing very well and a significant part of the story.
And one of the reasons that has been given for the improvement is the increase in scale.
I know you guide to 8% roughly over the near and medium term.
But in thinking about the long-term margin potential for this division which did track above 8% in 4Q have you done any benchmarking work to estimate what the margins of competitors with even greater scale are in the subset of Electrical Power Management that you participate in? If so would that seem to suggest even more margin expansion potential here? I think probably the best comp might be Delphi and I think Delphi's margins are above 10%.
But their business model is a little bit different than Lear Corporation in that they do have a greater size which allows them to absorb some of the infrastructure cost a little bit better than Lear can.
They also have a business that is a little bit higher or significantly higher in connectors and electronics which would require them to make a higher margin in order to get the type of return on investment they need to justify the investment.
So from our standpoint could it go higher? It could.
Right now we're comfortable guiding to that -- to the range that we gave you.
Research Division</strong> And I know you've been doing a lot on the cost side.
And it looks like your operating expense has declined in 2012 both in dollar terms and as a percentage of sales with the largest decline being in the fourth quarter.
Can you maybe talk about some of the drivers there and also to the sustainability? I think our cost structure is sustainable.
We're actually looking for opportunities to bring it down further.
A lot of that is just the timing of the engineering spend in relation to the backlog and where you are in the life cycle.
But we're diligent on cost.
We're focused on continuous improvement.
We're attacking every line item of our spending everywhere in the world plant by plant.
So it's a constant battle and it's a constant focus of the management team and I think we're really good at it.
Your final question comes from the line of Adam Brooks from Sidoti &amp; Company LLC.
LLC</strong> I just have 2 quick questions here.
One can you give us a sense by segment of the cadence of the backlog throughout 2013? I think generally speaking in EPMS the backlog should come in in 2013 more back-end loaded than front-end loaded but not significantly so.
And I think if you look at the Seating side it's -- I think early on in the first quarter you'll see a bigger chunk.
But again that is not terribly skewed in first half versus back half.
It's pretty ratable throughout the year.
I would tell you Adam it's pretty consistent overall.
And I don't really -- I don't know Jeff it's pretty flat.
I mean we're talking nuances.
Yes we're not talking big swings.
LLC</strong> Okay and then just one other quick question.
On the China business can you give us expectations for your performance versus the market? It seems like it's narrowed a bit for the past year or so.
Maybe what you think you can do going forward? I think we can continue to penetrate there.
We've got great relationships with DFM BAIC SAIC FAW and we also have obviously the extensions of the foreign automakers going in there.
And I think as they continue to look on global platforms Western-style type-quality and whatnot that it's a real opportunity for Lear and we'd expect to grow in that region faster than the market.
Well that's the last of the questions.
For the Lear team that's still on the phone I want to thank all of you for your hard work and dedication.
The results I think are a testament to what you've achieved this year and we look forward to a great 2013.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tracy.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter of 2013 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website at lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our second quarter financial results and 2013 outlook.
Then Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
Lear had a strong second quarter with our sales and earnings growing faster than industry production.
Sales in the second quarter were $4.1 billion up 12% from a year ago and core operating earnings increased 13% to $224 million.
In the second quarter our Electrical segment achieved record quarterly sales and earnings as business continued to benefit from the market share gains and improved infrastructure.
We also entered into an $800 million agreement to repurchase stock under an accelerated share repurchase program bringing our year-to-date repurchases to $1 billion.
As a result of our strong first half performance we are increasing our full year guidance.
Jeff will provide the details a little later in the presentation.
Slide 5 provides a regional overview of our financial results in the second quarter.
Lear reported strong sales increases in every major region of the world.
We have made significant investments in the emerging markets and we are well positioned for continued growth.
We remain solidly profitable in Europe despite industry production running significantly below installed capacity.
In South America our financial results have been negatively impacted by inefficiencies and higher costs associated with significant expansion of our business in that region.
We have historically been profitable in South America in both segments and expect our results to improve as we head into next year.
Slide 6 highlights the key elements of our strategy which remain unchanged.
We are following a balanced approach of investing in our business maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet and returning excess cash to shareholders.
We have the product expertise global reach competitive footprint and financial flexibility to profitably grow our business.
We are well positioned to take advantage of industry trends towards global platforms increased electrical content and direct component sourcing.
We plan to continue to invest in business to improve our market position and returns.
We continue to pursue acquisitions that will complement our present product offering facilitate further diversification of our sales and increase our component capabilities.
We plan on maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet while at the same time continuing to return excess cash to shareholders on a consistent basis.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 8 shows global vehicle production for the second quarter.
In the second quarter global vehicle production was 20.8 million units up 3% from 2012.
Europe production was up 2% compared to a year ago.
While European production continues to be below trend this was the first quarter without a year-over-year decline since the fourth quarter of 2011.
Production in North America was up 6% reflecting improving economic conditions in the region.
Market conditions were strong in key emerging markets with industry production up 11% in China and 23% in Brazil.
Slide 9 shows our financial results for the second quarter of 2013.
As previously mentioned sales were up 12% to $4.1 billion with all regions showing year-over-year increases.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $201 million up $11 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $17 million up $3 million primarily reflecting the impact of the $500 million bond which was issued in January.
Equity income was $10 million down $11 million from a year ago.
In the second quarter of 2012 we recognized a gain of $15 million related to reversal of a valuation allowance at our recently divested IAC joint venture.
Excluding this onetime item equity income was up $4 million from a year ago.
Slide 10 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our second quarter results.
During the second quarter we incurred $16 million of restructuring costs primarily related to various actions in Europe.
Other special items of $7 million primarily reflect labor-related litigation claims and incremental costs related to the previously reported fire at one of our European facilities.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $224 million up $27 million from 2012.
The increase in earnings reflects the increase in sales and improved operating performance partially offset by the impact of the changeover on key programs.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the second quarter was $138 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.62.
Slide 11 shows our second quarter adjusted margins for both segments as well as for the total company.
In Seating adjusted margins were 5.8% down 80 basis points from 1 year ago.
The year-over-year margin reduction was driven primarily by the impact of program changeovers and inefficiencies and higher costs in South America partially offset by improved production on key platforms.
Our full year margin outlook for Seating remains in the mid-5% range.
In Electrical we reported record sales and earnings in the second quarter.
Sales were over $1 billion for the second quarter in a row; and adjusted margins were 9.7% up 290 basis points from 1 year ago reflecting strong sales growth and operating efficiencies.
Performance in the quarter benefited by approximately 30 basis points reflecting the timing of commercial settlements.
We expect full year margins in our Electrical segment to be in the high 8% range.
Slide 12 provides a summary of free cash flow which was $74 million in the second quarter.
Slide 13 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the second quarter we retired 11.9 million shares of stock through the initial delivery of shares under the $800 million accelerated share repurchase program.
This represented 80% of the ASR's transaction value at the then current price of $53.95 per share.
The ultimate number of shares to be repurchased and the final price paid per share under the ASR transaction will be based on the daily volume weighted average price of the company's common stock during the term of the ASR agreement.
The ASR transaction is expected to be completed no later than March of 2014.
Since initiating the share repurchase program in early 2011 we have repurchased 27.1 million shares of our common stock which represents a reduction of approximately 25% of our shares.
After the completion of the ASR program Lear will have $750 million remaining in the existing share repurchase authorization which will expire 2 years after the completion of the ASR program.
This reflects approximately 15% of our current market capitalization.
Slide 15 highlights the key assumptions in our 2013 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in our major markets.
Global production of 81.3 million units is relatively unchanged from our prior guidance.
Our 2013 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.31 per euro which is up 1% from our prior outlook.
Slide 16 summarizes our 2013 financial outlook.
Based on our first half performance we are increasing full year guidance.
For 2013 Lear expects net sales of approximately $15.8 billion up from our prior guidance reflecting higher production on key platforms and the increase in the euro.
Core operating earnings are forecasted in the range of $750 million to $800 million up $25 million from our prior guidance.
Tax expense is estimated to be $200 million to $215 million higher than our prior guidance reflecting the higher earnings.
Our effective tax rate in 2013 is expected to be approximately 30%.
However given our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20%.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted at $440 million to $475 million.
Free cash flow for 2013 is forecasted at $300 million up $25 million from our prior outlook reflecting the increase in earnings.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
Great.
Nice job Jeff.
Thank you.
Lear performed well in the second quarter with sales and earnings growing faster than the global industry production.
As a result of our strong first half financial performance and our industry outlook we are increasing our full year guidance.
Assuming industry production remains stable at present forecasted levels we would expect our guidance for core operating earnings to be in the high end of the $750 million to $800 million range.
We continue to follow a balanced strategy of investing in our business maintaining a strong and flexible financial position and returning excess cash to our shareholders.
With that we would be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit just first of all on Seating.
The South America business I think you said before is around a $700 million business and it's not profitable now.
Can you -- is there a plan to get that to 5% or so margins? And if so what would the time frame be? Yes it's actually a little bit higher than that.
We'd expect them to come in probably closer to $800 million this year in the Seating alone Rod.
There absolutely is a plan.
In this business it's a combination of first and foremost getting this expansion and these growing pains under our belts with improved efficiencies at the new facilities and on the new programs getting more localized content to reduce some of the freight costs and inefficiencies associated with bringing product in and components in from outside of the region.
It's also working with our customers to get a fair and balanced pricing if you will either a combination of price adjustments or value engineering.
So it's a litany of different things.
We believe that we will return to more of a breakeven-type level as we exit the year and head into profitability going into '14 with this segment.
Historically we ran this segment at target margins in both -- this region in both product segments at target margins.
Research Division</strong> What would the time frame be for getting it to maybe the kind of margins you're doing elsewhere in Seating would that be like 2015? Probably 24 months I would guess Rod.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in Europe you've mentioned before that's been 100 basis point drag on margins as that's declined.
Can you recover that 100 basis points through restructuring or do you need that business to come back? Volume would always help and volume on our key car lines would be great.
And the good news is we have a pretty balanced portfolio by customer and product segment.
I do think there's some level of restructuring.
We've made it a focus through the first half of the year and looking for additional ways to take capacity out specifically in the just-in-time facilities which are significantly underutilized if you will.
But we've also looked at census actions pretty much everywhere.
So we've done a lot.
I still think there are some things we could do in that region.
So a combination of probably a little bit of both.
I would probably split it right down the uprights.
We don't anticipate a significant volume increase from the levels that we've seen through the first half.
We do expect a normal seasonality in the third quarter as Europe typically goes on a shutdown in July-August time frame.
I don't think this year's a whole a different.
So -- and we're not counting on huge tailwind in volume Rod but it would help.
In the meanwhile we're looking to get capacity out of these facilities and census reductions in place.
Research Division</strong> So similar to South America would there be a path to getting that margin up -- back up to your target in a 24-month time frame? Yes I would think one Europe is always going to run a little bit lower than the target margin in Seating to the target margins for that segment at 7%.
And historically it's always been a little bit lower because the business kind of DNA's a little bit different mainly because of lack of vertical integration there where it's more common to be the JIT assembler and we have a disproportionate amount of just-in-time assembly versus components.
So typically we've always been a little bit lower margin there.
I think the time frame I'm getting the shortfall up from when -- our historical run rate is near term though.
I do believe that we'll start -- we made a nice stride in the second quarter and I think we'll continue to see improvements exiting the year.
So I think in Europe it's a little bit nearer time frame to close the gap on what our historical performance has been.
On Electrical Distribution in Europe we are -- we remain at target margins for the segment largely.
Research Division</strong> And just last one really quick.
It's an unusual year for launches.
You said that you're redoing something like 2/3 of your platforms.
Is the pressure from launches did it reach its maximum in the first half or is it more -- is it greater in the back half of this year? It's actually -- it continues through the second half maybe even slightly higher as far as model changeover just because of some of the delays in some of the program launches Rod.
I would expect that pressure to continue into the first half of next year actually.
Second half of the year is going to be a pretty heavy model changeover year a model changeover.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the guidance.
It does seem that if we just run an implied incremental in terms of the EBIT raise versus the revenue raise it comes out somewhere below 10%.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about the different drivers within that? Maybe -- perhaps it ties back into some of the launch costs you're seeing in the second half of the year? Yes sales in the second half of the year pulled back versus the first half.
That's driven largely through the summer shutdowns if you will and that's disproportionally in Europe.
So we'll be sitting on even more excess capacity in some of our key just-in-time plants.
We've got a step-up in the program changeovers if you will.
And then we have engineering for the backlog that continues to come through.
So I think if the volume productions hold the way we see them right now Itay we can probably post a number closer to high end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Perfect.
That's helpful.
And then on CapEx I know a while back you talked about eventually returning to your historical CapEx-to-sales ratio.
Can you maybe update us on your thinking there perhaps as we start to think about 2014 a little bit more? Yes right now we've been running about 50 bps Jeff higher than historical average.
Personally I could see it drifting back down to the normal 2% 2.5% type range heading into '14 '15.
The good news is we've got a lot of backlog and I do think there are some opportunities.
And we've been getting nice returns on organic investment if you will.
And we're finding in many cases that those investments that we've made in our footprint are helping us penetrate the market specifically in Electrical Distribution.
So I'd like to see it at 3% of sales because it's been a pretty good return.
But I can see as we're exiting '14 right now with the backlog the way it stands that we would start drifting down to more normalized capital expenditures if you will.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then just lastly on the pension.
I know not a big deal for Lear but you did pick up some lability I believe with the Guilford acquisition.
Discount rates are moving in your favor.
Do you have any numbers any kind of sensitivities to share in terms of how much a benefit or a tailwind that's been for you year-to-date? Well I think what we've seen is the appreciation and the value of the pension assets has kind of outweighed the impact of the discount rates.
And you're right the year-over-year between '11 and '12 the increase in the underfunded position was entirely the impact of the Guilford acquisition.
But we've seen some positive things in the past couple months and there is potentially some if it still carries forward some positive effect as we go into the year end.
Your next question comes from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on the guidance.
As we look at just the core operating earnings in the second half of the year that would be implied by the high end of your guidance range it would mean that the earnings would be flat pretty much on a year-over-year basis but it looks like the sales will be up 6%.
And I know there's some more launches particularly the K2XX and others that might hamper you a little bit in the second half of the year but it seems pretty conservative.
Is there anything other than launches that will really tamp down the core operating earnings in the second half of the year because it just seems like a pretty conservative outlook.
There's literally thousands of inputs that go in Murph into creating the guidance.
But the main one's probably the program changeovers.
As I think Rod mentioned earlier in the call there is a significant amount of programs that are changing over this year and that's a little bit different than launch costs if you will.
With the changeover of a program it's not unusual to see a pullback in the margins because of the efficiencies of a mature program versus a program that's in its infancy.
Plus in many cases the margins pull back just because of the competitive pricing situation that we're in where we typically have to price lower than the exiting program and then work the pricing back up or at least the margins back up through value engineering and working with our customers.
So I think probably the program changeovers might be worth 50 60 bps mainly in Seating and that's probably what you're seeing in the year-over-year in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then just a second question on what's going on at the Electronics business.
It's performing incredibly well.
Just curious are you seeing any pricing pressure coming in from automakers because you're making so much money there? And then sort of secondarily there are some sales and acquisitions and M&amp;A that's going on there that might be of interest to you particularly on the JCI side and Gentex seems to be moving.
Is there anything that you're looking at as far as deals on the Electronics side that might be attractive to you right now? Yes let me break that down.
Actually I think there's 3 questions there.
Price pressures are always there regardless of whether you make money or not.
And this year's no different because our customers are in a consumer product that's very price-sensitive.
I think one of our strengths is with our global reach and our vertical reach if you will for the different components.
That gives us a very good stage to take costs out of the product.
But yes the price pressures continue and I think in a strange way that actually plays to Lear's strength.
I don't necessarily believe that it's tied to the performance in the segment if you will because really what we look at is performance versus our cost of capital.
And in this particular business I think we have a nice gap to our cost of capital but I don't necessarily think it's out of market if you will.
As far as acquisitions we are looking at many many many things in both segments.
In particular in Electrical you've heard me talk about before how we'd like to get better in connectors or some scale in Asia with Electrical and we've got a lot of businesses that we've reached out to.
We have absolutely no interest in Johnson Controls Electronics business.
It doesn't fit our portfolio in any away.
And I guess that's it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on raw material costs.
I mean your -- is a lot of that still being passed through escalators and indexing to the automakers or are you guys getting any real benefit from the pullback in raws? Yes primarily with respect to copper.
Copper prices are down year-over-year.
Now our exposure to copper or benefit to copper is somewhat limited about 15% to 20% of our overall buy is exposed.
And we have benefited somewhat by the reduction in costs year-over-year.
We've got hedge positions in place really between now and the end of the year on most of that exposure.
But we are seeing a slightly positive year-over-year impact primarily on copper.
Research Division</strong> Any guess sort of on the bump that you saw in the EPMS margin and it would come off after that? If -- net-net because there are some other competing commodities that are going counter to that like resins.
So it's relatively small in EPMS.
It's not a big driver.
Your next question is from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First just by way of clarification on the Seating margins and this is just basically trying to clarify some of the things that Rod was asking about if I understand it correctly South America it sounds like that's a drag on Seating margins to the tune of maybe 100 basis points.
You expect some improvement over the next couple of years.
The launches maybe another 100 -- 50 or 100 basis points.
You expect some improvement in the back half of 2014.
And then Europe you kind of expect some steady improvement there.
And I thought I heard that characterized as 100 basis points.
Is my understanding correct or would you make some adjustments to that? No it's mostly correct.
I would characterize instead of launch I would characterize it as program changeovers.
Launch costs Brett is a 6-week period wrapped around the start of production and represents the inefficiencies associated with ramping up.
What we're talking about is a little bit different which is it's the changeover of the portfolio.
And as new business comes on it typically comes on as slightly lower margin than the business it replaces.
And then as you work through value engineering and efficiencies throughout the supply chain we're able to work those margins back up.
Jeff but from the rest it though I think he was fairly accurate? Yes I think he's there.
I mean looking at South America if you just look at it in the quarter on a year-over-year basis it's about 20 basis points in the quarter on South America.
And I think everything else that you mentioned and Matt responded to is pretty much on mark.
Research Division</strong> So how do we think about the midterm margin target for this segment? If we're tracking kind of mid-size now it looks like we've got kind of 200-maybe-plus basis points of potential margin opportunity here which would kind of put you into the mid-7% range.
We still kind of thinking 7% to 8% is maybe kind of 1 2-year time horizon target? Yes I probably would characterize it this way: we're going to make steady progress to the target margin of 7% Brett.
The way I see the immediate term is that with the summer shutdown in the July period and the third quarter is typically our weakest quarter we'll see some pullback from what we've posted in the second quarter which is fairly a strong quarter for us historically.
Then we'll see the fourth quarter again kind of improve probably not a whole lot different than the second quarter as far as the margin profile.
So something along that range.
And then as we enter into next year there's another wave of program changeovers that come into play along with the typical seasonality of the first quarter when the whole new level of productivity comes in contractual productivity comes in and pricing comes in for our customers.
So I would expect to see some level of a pullback and then a steady march through the remainder of the year for progress towards the 6% and then 6.5% and then down the road 7%.
I think it'll be a steady climb towards target margins over the next 24 months.
Research Division</strong> And then Electrical it just seems to keep going up.
I mean 9.7% this quarter very very good numbers.
I mean high 8% range seems fairly conservative for this year unless you're expecting something to happen in the back half of the year.
And it seems like what's driven is that operating leverage on your fixed cost base and with revenue growth looking like it's going to continue to some extent what kind of a midterm target are you thinking with the electrical business because it looks like it can track right up into the double-digit range? Yes our business is a combination of harnesses junction boxes and connectors under this umbrella of Electrical Distribution.
And from our standpoint we start posting in excess of our cost of capital when we get in the mid- to high-6s if you will.
And so we kind of manage our business along those lines.
We expect to continue to win business in this segment at healthy margins.
We are leveraging our fixed infrastructure with the level of sales that we've had -- currently have.
And we're also getting the benefit of a lot of the restructuring and footprint actions we've taken over the last several years.
I think from our standpoint we're monitoring the launches monitoring the product changeovers the business continues to grow and keeping an eye on it.
And I think the margin profile in this business will remain fairly healthy.
And right now we believe it's prudent to kind of call it at the high 8s if you will.
Your next question is from Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I may have missed this in your comments but what did you say was the amount of the customer settlement that aided the EPMS margin this quarter? Can you give us a little more color there as to whether it was a catch-up to previous settlements or if it was pulled forward from the future quarters? With respect to that Ravi in terms of basis points I think you can do the math.
We indicated in the discussion it's worth about 30 basis points in the quarter.
And it was will really timing related.
We had anticipated getting that commercial issues or those series of commercial issues completed later in the year.
And as such we got it done earlier than we had previously thought but it's worth about 30 bps.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So still very strong margins even if you adjust for that.
And also just going back to something you said earlier in the Q&amp;A.
I think you had implied that even once the launch costs kind of wind down you expect the initial new programs to be slightly dilutive to margins.
What about the content per vehicle is that going to be -- see a significant step-up once you have all these new launches come in? I'm sorry what was your question on content per vehicle? You broke a little bit Ravi.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
My question was what happens to the content per vehicle once all the new launches ramp up? Does that see a significant step-up? Yes it continues to grow.
We've done a really nice job with penetrating the market with our components both structures tracks and recliners as well as I think our leading -- industry-leading seat cover business we call it cut &amp; sew and trim.
The content is continuing to grow.
I think the benefit of Guilford is starting to come through as well and we're making nice gains in some the foam business.
So we would expect the content per vehicle on the Seat side to continue to grow.
And then on the Electrical side as the cars are adding more and more content on average we believe it should be about 3% a year on content growth there.
We're not only gaining share but you're seeing overall the structure of the vehicles have more electrical content in there.
Alternate energy vehicles as they penetrate the market also provide an opportunity for significant content growth.
So we are seeing content growth at all segments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just finally we saw the EU move to render some verdicts in the antitrust case in the wire harness business last month.
Do you consider yourselves as having got the green light there and is this over or do you think there could still be some actions? Yes as we've said many times we never believed we were the target of the investigation.
We cooperated with the authorities fully.
And we ran our own internal investigation and we didn't find any evidence.
We plan on continuing to defend ourselves vigorously in some of the civil matters.
On July 10 when the European Commission issued the press release they imposed certain fines against our competitors but no fines or penalties or liabilities were imposed on Lear.
And we believe that's indication that the European side of this investigation is done.
And it's consistent with our own internal findings.
We are still subject to civil -- some civil class action suits in the U.S.
But again we believe they're frivolous at least as far as including Lear in it.
And the fact that the European Commission did not fine us believes [ph] very much strengthens our hands in our defense of those lawsuits.
And we plan of vigorously defending ourselves in these matters.
Your next question is from Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually just following up on the content per vehicle commentary.
And I know it's not a perfect measure.
But you guys have -- as you reported anyway have shown some good increases in Europe while North America flat.
Is that because you are further ahead on the EPMS penetration in Europe? And if so is that still an opportunity on some of the North America production? Yes I think so.
I mean we look at content per vehicle on 2 different ways.
I guess the formal way is to take the total industry and kind of divide our sales and come up with a content per vehicle which is I think is very theoretical because Joe we don't sell to the industry right? We sell to specific car lines.
And the car lines we're on we're constantly measuring our content growth and we believe that between the penetration of electrical content as well the investments that we've made in the component business we are seeing gains in both our 2 product segments and we'd expect that to be an opportunity in North America specifically in Electrical.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just thinking about the backlog it looks like -- and you've indicated this prior that Seating may ramp up a little bit more in the back half of the year.
I just want to I guess confirm that.
And then I know you're not going to update the 3-year figure today but if we start thinking about it going out a little bit versus one you initially gave that sort of color I think the industry as a whole is -- there's still uncertainty but I think people are feeling better about it.
So is there some potential upside to maybe some of the volume assumptions you initially gave with that 3-year outlook? I think what's out there right now Joe is a 3-year backlog number of $1.8 billion which included $850 million in '13.
And as we look at the numbers for all the reasons you just suggested for '13 I think we're trending higher than that.
Maybe just right around the $900 million mark.
And as you look at the cadence of that backlog when it's coming onboard we'd see the EPMS cadence more ratable throughout the year whereas the cadence of Seating is more back-end loaded.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's for '13 right? For '13.
All of that is for '13.
We've had a good year winning business as well Joe.
We'd expect -- we're penetrating in both segments and taking share in both segments in all regions.
We've had a good booking year and we'd expect that trend continue.
Your next question is from Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> When we look at the backlog in light of some of the trends of year-to-date I get a sense is there going to be upside to the backlog apart from new signings but just for some of the content growth you're talking about.
And in particular on the Electrical side are we just seeing more infotainment more active safety just greater take rate within the platforms of some of the higher-end packages and does that drive content? And parallel in Seating we keep hearing from Ford and GM how their customers are opting for the upper end of the trim packages and so are you seeing upside from that? And if so does it affect the backlog? Yes we are.
We don't make theoretical adjustments to the content in our backlog.
In our backlog we pretty much just take the base scenario as the customer tells us net new business so we have to have an award over a 3-year period.
So we have pretty narrowly defined backlog.
We do expect though and we are seeing content growth.
What's typical Brian and you know this is that cars are getting more electrical feature which requires more circuits to run signals through the vehicle which plays to a strength that Lear has.
We've been seeing an average of around 3% a year.
That's continuing but we didn't put a theoretical amount in the backlog but we'd expect it to impact the backlog in a positive way.
On Seating seats evolve and entry-level vehicles or B platforms C platforms begin to have a more content whether it's power content or upgrading to a leather feature from a cloth feature that would add content as well.
We're seeing that in the marketplace and that's a trend that we think would benefit Lear.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on the cash side the ASR obviously your partners are going out and covering that.
But would you have any flexibility to enter the market opportunistically in addition to that or you just need to wait for that to get cleaned up? And then secondly can you maybe remind us of your leverage targets and what that implies for cash return beyond this current program? I think with respect to your first question we're not necessarily precluded from entering in the market ourselves and buying back shares coincident with the ASR program.
With respect to the future beyond the ASR the ASR will be completed no later than March of 2014.
We have an existing authorization that extends beyond that point in time of $750 million over a 2-year period.
So the thought would be that when we complete the current ASR we would roll right into that authorization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on terms of leverage target have you articulated one? We've talked a little bit of -- you've heard us say a lot of times Brian about our desire to maintain investment grade credit metrics.
We believe a gross turn -- a 1.5 gross EBITDA leverage ratio is probably the range that would work longer term.
If we saw the right investment we wouldn't have a problem moving up to that level.
Your next question comes from Colin Langan with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Any color -- I mean you had very strong sales outperformance with global sales up just 3% and you're up 12%.
I mean was there any positive customer mix that was helping you out particularly in this quarter or is that all just really backlog-driven? Both.
I mean we had a nice mix of platforms specifically in Europe.
In Europe what we're seeing is we've got a pretty diverse customer mix and platform mix everything from the high-end premium brands with the German OEs as well as the more A B or lower-end vehicles.
We're seeing strength in a lot of the luxury brands and premium brands in German OEs specifically as well with the car lines that get exported and that's benefited us.
We also had a strong backlog quarter so we were able -- we're continuing to penetrate the market in both segments and that's what you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any concerns around rising warranty risk or any litigation risk.
I think one of your competitors mentioned something about more exposure to some of the litigation after the Detroit Three -- the Detroit bankruptcy sort of left [ph] more risk onto the suppliers? Is that a risk for you in the future? It's a risk.
It's nothing new though.
It's been going on.
It's been out there for a while.
I mean we take great pride in standing behind our products and making sure that our customer gets our component first and foremost as spec but more importantly in accordance with all the safety standards that you would expect.
That's what you get when you buy components from Lear Corporation.
So it's a risk but it's not unmanageable.
It's not anything new by any stretch of the imagination.
Research Division</strong> So there's no increased pressure to take on more of the warranty exposure? No I think it's not increased.
I think it's consistent.
It's consistent.
It may be increased from 5 7 years ago but it's not increased from last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I mean you took up your guidance outlook for Europe.
I mean what gives you confidence that things are getting a little bit better there? Are you seeing some good signs from your customer base? Well it's stable.
It's stable in what we think is a relatively low end.
We're not counting on a snapback.
It'd be great if it did but we're not counting on it.
We've been able to get some costs out of our facilities and looking at opportunities to do some more.
And our leadership team in Europe has done I think a very good job at managing in a still somewhat challenging environment.
Your next question comes from Adi Oberoi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had -- I wanted to understand the opportunity in new businesses a little bit better.
Would you characterize the opportunity more coming from current OEMs where you're bidding on global platforms rather than individual regions or is it an opportunity coming from new OEMs in emerging markets? It's both.
It's really both.
I would say that the global platforms provide a unique opportunity for Lear because we're one of the few suppliers in both our spaces that can do a global platform in all the components at every automotive-producing region in the world.
And I think that's going to play to our strength and that's a major significant trend in the industry.
We are also however winning business with some of the emerging market OEs if you will.
But really I think that's a longer-term play and a longer-term opportunity to see significant growth with them.
We have business with all the major emerging market players that have foreign partners in China.
We have significant business with Mahindra &amp; Mahindra.
And we also have business with some of the niche smaller domestic OEs in China as well.
So we've been able to penetrate pretty much everywhere Adi.
But I think the main opportunity for us is going to be the penetration of global platforms as all the automakers now are to -- trying to launch consistency all around the world.
And I think that that'll play to our strength.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's very helpful.
And I wanted to circle back on the question of leverage here.
It seems that we are heading into an environment where rates are going to rise.
Any plans to kind of take up leverage a little bit before we get into a more costly debt environment? I think we are always looking at the markets to see where rates are going.
We're not planning on doing anything in the near term but we do have a bond that we have the opportunity to redeem 100% of it in the latter part of the first quarter of 2014 so there may be a preemptive move to give us the ability to do that whereby restructuring our maturity profile as well as reducing our overall cost of debt.
Your final question is from Adam Brooks with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just 2 quick questions here.
Can you talk a little bit about how the China business has been trending in recent months and maybe where you stand from a capacity standpoint? Yes it's continuing to grow but growth is somewhat slowing at the moment.
We've put a lot of capacity in and I think we're seeing nice growth.
I think from a Seat standpoint we're probably closer to our full utilization.
In wire electrical -- in Electrical we've made nice investments specifically in connectors and we think we still have some upside there as well as some electronics capabilities.
So all in all while we continue to grow it is slowing a little bit but still outpacing I think the more mature markets.
So we're in pretty good shape.
If we see a major step-up in our backlog we'd have to continue to invest in the business.
Now for '13 we're still calling the number at what Jeff 15%? Yes about 15% growth specifically in China.
LLC</strong> And then maybe now that you have Guilford for 1 year now can you kindly give us an update on kind of your thoughts in the strategy there and I know maybe it's helped expose you more to some customers where you were underexposed before.
So maybe just an update on your thoughts with the strategy going forward? We're very happy with the investment that we made in Guilford.
It's performing slightly better than we anticipated from a cost and margin standpoint.
It is allowing us to get into the design studios earlier and as well come up with some pretty innovative solutions on the seat covers as well as take cost out of the product come up with unique designs.
So I would tell you that that it's been a very very good acquisition for us and we're very happy with that.
Okay with that I think that concludes the question-and-answer part of the call.
For the Lear team that's on the call I want thank all of you for your hard work and your teamwork.
Without your hard efforts we wouldn't able to post these type of results.
So keep up the great job and I deeply appreciate it.
And to Jeff and the entire finance team great job getting ready for the call.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for joining ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the third quarter 2013 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides titled non-GAAP financial information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our third quarter financial results and 2013 outlook.
Then Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
Lear had a strong third quarter with sales and earnings growing faster than the industry production.
Sales in the quarter were $3.9 billion up 11% from the year ago and our core operating earnings increased 15% to $207 million.
Our EPMS segment achieved record quarterly earnings and the 16th consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin improvement as the business continues to benefit from market share gains and an improved cost structure.
As a result of our strong performance year-to-date we are increasing our full year guidance and Jeff will provide the details a little later in the presentation.
Slide #5 provides our margin outlook for Seating.
When we established 2013 guidance in January we indicated that our Seating margins for the year would be in the mid-5% range.
As we look ahead to 2014 we expect meaningful improvement in our Seating business with margins for the full year of approximately 6%.
While full year Seating margins are projected to improve the early part of the year will be negatively impacted by the continuation major program changeovers as well as annual price downs which generally are effective at the beginning of the year.
Performance in Seating should improve steadily throughout the year as we continue to digest major program changeovers and implement manufacturing efficiencies VAVE cost reductions and certain commercial resolutions.
We also expect to benefit from modest volume improvements in Europe improvements in South America and increased earnings from the investments we've made and the expansion of our component capabilities.
We plan to provide a full 2014 guidance in January.
Slide 6 shows progress we've made on our strategy of selective vertical integration and expansion of our component capabilities in emerging markets and low-cost countries.
We believe this strategy will improve our competitiveness better support our customers and enhance our quality and provide an avenue for future growth.
We also believe these actions are aligned with increasing customer trends towards global platforms localized content and increased direct-to-component sourcing.
From 2011 to 2013 we have invested approximately $350 million to open new component facilities.
As a reference we define components as parts that are not required to be assembled and delivered in a just-in-time manner.
Our sales in the new plants are forecast to be over $1 billion this year and we believe that will be a future driver of sales and earnings growth.
Slide 7 provides an update on last year's acquisition of Guilford Performance Textiles a leading global provider of fabric for seats headliners and other interior applications.
We have focused our M&amp;A strategy on acquisitions that can grow strengthen and further diversify our business.
We purchased Guilford for approximately $250 million and this acquisition added sales of about $400 million at margins that are consistent with longer-term target seating margins.
Since the acquisition we have been benefiting from administrative and operating synergies and Guilford's performance has exceeded our expectations.
In addition Guilford has strengthened our existing industry-leading seat cover business by providing increased design technical and manufacturing expertise.
With Guilford we have been able to offer our customers unique fabric designs as well as custom seat covers which gets us involved earlier in the design process and provides lower-cost seat cover solutions for our customers.
The Guilford acquisition also has facilitated certain manufacturing efficiencies in our industry-leading cut-and-sew operations and in general provides greater growth opportunities for our seating business.
Since acquiring Guilford we have developed a number of new fabric options including providing cost savings through strategic wear placement durable fabrics for excessive-wear applications secondary embellishment technologies and fabric performance finishes to preserve and protect the seat surface.
We continue to invest in complementary technologies such as laser etching and polymer printing to allow distinctive expression and upscale appearances with reduced time to market.
Slide #8 provides a summary of the cash we've returned to shareholders since early 2011 through our share repurchase and dividend programs.
In 2013 we repurchased $1 billion of stock including $200 million open-market purchases in the first quarter and $800 million in an accelerated share repurchase program initiated in April.
Under the ASR we retired 11.9 million shares of stock in the second quarter which represented 80% of the ASR's transaction value at a price of $53.95 per share.
The ultimate number of shares to be repurchased and the final price paid per share will be based on the weighted average price of the company's common stock during the term of the ASR agreement.
The ASR transaction is expected to be completed no later than March of 2014.
Since initiating the share repurchase program in early 2011 we have repurchased 27.1 million shares of common stock which represents a reduction of approximately 25% of our shares outstanding at the time the repurchase programs were initiated.
At the time of the ASR our Board of Directors also authorized an incremental $750 million share repurchase program.
Shares repurchased under this authorization are expected to be made over a 2-year period immediately following the conclusion of the ASR.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 10 shows global vehicle production for the third quarter.
In the third quarter global vehicle production was 19.6 million units up 4% from 2012.
Vehicle production increased in all of our major markets led by an 8% increase in China and a 6% increase in North America.
Europe production was up 2% compared to a year ago the second consecutive quarter with year-over-year increases.
Slide 11 shows our financial results for the third quarter of 2013.
As previously mentioned sales were up 11% to $3.9 billion with all regions showing year-over-year increases.
Pre-tax income before equity income interest and other expense was $193 million up $23 million from a year ago.
Equity income was $9 million up $6 million from a year ago primarily reflecting the divestiture of our IAC joint venture and improved performance of our equity affiliates in China.
Interest expense was $18 million up $4 million primarily reflecting the impact of the $500 million bond issued in January.
Other expense was $17 million up $15 million from a year ago primarily reflecting losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
In addition in the third quarter of 2012 we recognized onetime net gains of approximately $3 million that included insurance recoveries partially offset by bond redemption costs.
Slide 12 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our third quarter results.
During the third quarter we incurred $13 million of restructuring costs primarily related to various actions in Europe.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $207 million up $27 million from 2012.
The increase in earnings reflects the benefit of new business and increased production on key platforms partially offset by the impact of the changeover on key programs.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the third quarter was $119 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.45.
Slide 13 shows our third quarter adjusted margins for both segments as well as for the total company.
In Seating adjusted margins were 5.4% down 70 basis points from a year ago.
The year-over-year margin reduction was driven primarily by the impact of program changeovers partially offset by improved production on key platforms and the benefit of the new business.
Our full year margin outlook for Seating remains in the mid-5% range.
In Electrical our positive momentum continued into the third quarter.
Sales were over $1 billion for the third consecutive quarter and adjusted margins were 10.9% up 340 basis points from a year ago reflecting operating efficiencies and strong sales growth.
Performance in the quarter benefited by the timing of commercial settlements.
We now expect full year margins in our Electrical segment to be in the high 9% range.
Total company adjusted margins were 5.3% in the third quarter up 20 basis points from a year ago.
Slide 14 summarizes our free cash flow which was $61 million in the third quarter.
Slide 16 highlights the key assumptions in our 2013 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in our major markets.
Global production of 81.6 million units is relatively unchanged from our prior guidance.
Our 2013 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.32 per euro which is up 1% from our prior outlook.
Slide 17 summarizes our 2013 financial outlook.
Based on our strong performance year-to-date we are increasing full year guidance.
For 2013 Lear expects net sales of approximately $16 billion up from our prior guidance reflecting higher production on our key platforms.
Core operating earnings are forecasted to be approximately $835 million up from the prior outlook of $750 million to $800 million.
Tax expense is estimated to be approximately $230 million higher than our prior guidance reflecting the higher earnings.
Our effective tax rate in 2013 is expected to be approximately 30%.
However given our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20%.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted at approximately $505 million.
Free cash flow for 2013 is forecasted at $325 million up $25 million from our prior outlook.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
Thanks Jeff.
We've had another strong quarter with sales and earnings growing faster than the industry and our EPMS business continues to benefit from market share gains and improved operating performance.
As a result of our year-to-date financial performance we have increased our full year guidance.
Our results reflect record earnings in EPMS benefits from the investments we've made to increase component capabilities in low-cost countries and emerging markets and our acquisition of Guilford.
We plan to continue to identify additional investment opportunities to further grow our business and improve our competitive position.
We will continue to return to cash to shareholders through our existing share repurchase and dividend programs.
And with that we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Research Division</strong> So what's -- maybe start on the EPMS side.
Terrific margin in the quarter.
I wonder if you could quantify the commercial settlement you referenced.
Then two even with that it looks like your Q4 margin probably will run at or above 10%.
So maybe Matt if you can update us on just your long-term thinking in that segment relative to your prior thinking.
Yes.
I think -- let me start with the last part of that question and work back towards the original question Itay.
I think longer term in this segment we're comfortable at about 9.5% to 10% based on our mix of business capital intensity and engineering intensity and also recognizing kind of the competitive landscape if you will.
At that rate we make a significant return on our investment.
I think operating margins once we start breaking through the high-5s low-6s we start making real nice return on our invested capital.
This business is still I think about 2/3 wire as opposed to connectors and electronics which require higher engineering and capital intensity.
So we get a nice nice return in that regard.
I think in any given quarter or subsegment of the year we could go through the high end of that.
But I think longer-term planning perspective I believe we have the ability to gain share continue to gain share and profitably grow this business at a margin rate that's between 9.5% and 10%.
For the quarter Jeff commercial resolutions? It accounted for approximately 50 basis points of improvement in the quarter.
The quarter also benefited Itay though.
We had a nice strong mix of business.
The platforms that we run did well in the marketplace in this segment.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And then just on the seat margin outlook for 2014.
One can you maybe talk a little bit about the cadence? I assume maybe you'll be off to a slower start because of the changeover in North America with the GM trucks.
How should we think about that kind of roughly around 2014? Yes.
I think what we'll see is it'll start off a little bit lower than our exit rate for 2013 ramping up through the year.
I think key drivers on this is besides the changeover continued changeover of the portfolio led by the remaining GM large truck platforms is on January 1 we typically have a fairly big slug of commercial pricing commitments to our customer as we continue to work with them to reduce their material costs and improve their competitiveness.
A lot of that hits on Jan 1 or is effective January 1 and I think that's a key driver.
And as we work through the year and are able to execute some value engineering get some of the launch costs behind us and improve our operations we typically increase margins.
Your next question comes from Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just first of all in prior years I think that you typically -- not every year but typically did have better margins in the fourth quarter than the third quarter with I think the commercial settlements very often happen in the fourth quarter.
Are you thinking that the seasonality of that changed? And wouldn't that be or would that be the same still in the Seating business? No you're right.
Typically that is how it shakes out Rod.
I think from our standpoint on certain key platforms the volumes on them are a little bit actually lighter in the fourth quarter.
We had a strong third quarter on certain key platforms and we're seeing a little bit of a pullback on that.
So it's really about the mix.
From commercial resolutions speaking of Electrical for instance we pulled into the third quarter resolution that we're expecting in the fourth quarter.
But right now based on what we're seeing in the marketplace with some choppy emerging markets we think it'll be a relatively flat quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how should we be thinking about the incremental margins in the Electrical division going forward? I think longer term 9.5% to 10% is about the right rate based on the capital intensity and engineering intensity on our portfolio as it sits today because it is 2/3 wire Rod.
I think at this rate and at these margins we can continue to gain share and grow the business profitable.
But with the competitive landscape I think that's the right margin at this point to plan for.
Research Division</strong> You're saying that that's the right assumption for incremental margin as well as...
No.
Incremental -- I mean it depends.
On new just volume on volume recovery typically it's in the 10% to 15% range.
On new programs usually right around 10% on the backlog.
But there is a baffle and there is the obligation to continue to return productivity to your customers.
And I think with the competitive landscape in there I think it kind of balances out at that rate longer term.
I don't think they grow into perpetuity if you will the margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question.
Can you just give us some color on working capital trends? Is it a fair amount of capital that was consumed there over the 9 months? And how should we be thinking about -- just for $1 of revenue growth going forward what's the working capital commitment that you'd need to provide? Well I think as we look at the sales trend going forward and increasing sales certainly what's going to accompany that is likely to be some level of increase in working capital requirements.
Certainly part of what we are focused on right now is the inventory given the launches given some of the inefficiencies that we've mentioned in areas like South America.
Part of the goal there is to take a slug out of working capital given the inventory required for those launches.
I think going forward I think you'll see a similar cadence maybe less increase in working capital given some of the initiatives we have.
But you'll see some level of continued working capital increases going forward.
What's evolved in the business Rod as you know is the complete JIT model which did not require us to maintain a lot of inventory to a more global model with a level of direct to components which extends the supply base.
We're working with the supply base and working with our customers to try to balance that a little bit more.
I think the rate of consumption of working capital to dollar of sales growth is going to decrease.
But working capital needs are going to like Jeff said continue to increase.
Research Division</strong> Could you share a rule of thumb maybe for us? For $1 of revenue growth what is the reasonable assumption for working capital? I really can't because it depends on where that $1 of growth comes from.
If it comes from certain emerging markets which has an extended global platform supply base if you will many times you're going to be sending components from Europe into places like India or Brazil and that extends the working capital.
So I'd be a little bit hesitant to simplify it at that rate.
And I think Rod just one other comment which is certainly working capital in particular can be sensitive to the fiscal quarter end.
And a couple of days here or there can make a pretty significant difference on receipts and disbursements.
So I think Q3 was particularly affected by that.
Yes.
Where did we cut off the Q3 exactly Jeff? 28th of September and that 1 day versus last year for example which I think Rod is referencing can have an impact and did have an impact.
Your next question comes from John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question Matt.
You had mentioned that you were making a lot of market share gains in the EPMS business.
And I'm just curious if the growth that we're seeing or the outperformance that we're seeing really is from you gaining market share or is there also a lot it is coming from just actual dollar content growth as the automakers focus on more electronic content.
Well it's both.
I mean we're seeing an average content growth of around 3% in the segment as they add additional features and use more signals in the vehicle John.
But we're also penetrating share.
I mean this business over the last several years is doubled.
And so we're penetrating and we're gaining share and we're -- in every region in the world.
So it's a combination of both.
Research Division</strong> And is that share gain coming from smaller fragmented suppliers? Or do you think you're actually going up some of the -- against some of the big guys and winning takeover business there? We're winning takeover business from the big guys.
Research Division</strong> Got you and that's helpful.
And then on the launches and the changeovers is there anything unique that's going on there other than sort of the GM truck launch or any other large launches? Are there any delays or problems with the launches that are creating some sort of near-term heartburn? Or is it just regular course just a lot of launches? It's a lot of launches.
And it's -- the portion of the portfolio is changing over the combination of it.
So we are in the final 1/3 if you will or -- I hate to use a baseball term coming from Detroit these days.
But we're in the bottom of the seventh and -- of the launches and the changeovers.
And there's 2 dynamics there.
One there's the additional launch costs and inefficiencies associated with launching product.
But there's also such a significant amount of the changeover in the portfolio.
When new programs roll out they typically rollout in a lower margin than the business that they're replacing because we haven't had years of cost reduction value engineering ideas go into the customers and the plants just haven't been in many cases laid out in the most efficient manner with the new business coming on.
So I think both dynamics are impacting us.
And launch costs will correct themselves relatively quickly.
Program profitability usually takes a little bit more time to execute and improve.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly on Europe.
I mean you're outperforming in a lot of regions.
But the outperformance in Europe segment is pretty impressive.
Is that a combination of Seating and Electronics? And what is really driving that? Because it is -- it's a weak market but you seem to be doing very well.
I'm just trying to understand what the outperformance is being driven by.
Well both segments have improved their performance in Europe.
In Electrical that segment is mature and has a fair bit of vertical integration.
And we've spent a significant amount of restructuring several years ago to get our footprint in the low-cost regions and expanded our footprint in eastern Europe and northern Africa.
And as a result it's performing at target margins.
Europe while not at target margins is profitable in a meaningful way and has improved the margins.
And again we've done a lot of restructuring a lot of move a lot of -- move of the product to eastern Europe and northern Africa for them as well.
And I just think it's been a solid management of that segment.
The good news about Europe for us is we're pretty well represented with the A B platforms all the way up to the luxury brands.
And many of the luxury brands have some level of resilience both in Europe but also as export products to other markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question I apologize.
The long-term targets for Seating are what? And do you think you could reach your long-term targets as an exit rate for 2014 given your expectation of margin improvement there? Yes.
I think with the current mix of business including just-in-time assembly foam structures and seat covers as well as the amount of system responsibility versus build to print right now we believe longer-term margins for this segment could be right around 7%.
I don't believe we'll get there on the exit rate in 2014 John.
Your next question comes from Ryan Brinkman from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I know you report your profits by business segment and only revenue by geography.
But I'm curious because you do get 38% of your revenue from Europe if there's anything you can say about the overall profitability of your operations there.
I'm trying to gauge just how much margin opportunity there could be -- how much profit opportunity there could be I guess if both the European market normalizes and then your own margins normalize in Europe.
Well you're right.
We are solidly profitable.
The profitability in Europe I think at one time we said had reached for Seating around 4% pulled back at around 2% 2.5% during the pullback.
We're significantly higher than the 2.5% approaching kind of the 3.5% 4% range in Seating.
And what drives those margins a little bit lower besides the significant reduction in volumes is the reduced vertical integration on the components in Europe which is a little bit higher if you will in North America.
So the margin opportunities and the capital intensity in North America is a little bit higher than it is in Europe and for that we command a higher margin.
In Electrical Distribution which is a very mature business for us we've worked really hard on the footprint as I mentioned earlier and has a fair bit of vertical integration at connectors and boxes.
We're able to achieve the kind of target margins for the segment overall and it's running consistent with it.
As far as opportunities I still think Europe's going to be a longer-term recovery.
I do believe we're at the bottom.
I do think margins will remain a little bit lower than target margins overall for Seating.
I think we'll maintain the margins that we have in Electrical.
Some volume would help us and we think it's going to come back but we think it's going to be a very slow and choppy recovery.
Research Division</strong> That's great color.
Maybe just a quick question on Seating.
Using the preliminary Seating margin guidance that you provided today for 2014 if we sort of -- that's a margin number.
If we just sort of simplistically assume that your revenue grows roughly in line with global light vehicle production growth of I think 4% by IHS our quick math seems to suggest that that's about a 17% incremental margin.
I was curious if that seems right to you? Or maybe if can't comment on that perhaps you can just share what you view as normalized contribution margins for the Seating business and then what some of the puts or takes might be in 2014 that could make Seating contribution margins differ from a normalized amount.
Yes.
There's about 1 000 inputs that go into making a projection.
And it really comes down to which car line moves up in the mix Ryan because each car line kind of has its own financial DNA if you will.
Some of the variances besides running the amount of manufacturing locations that we do efficiently and assuming there's no disruption in any way is the mix.
But on top of that another variable would be pricing.
Typically we give about 2% of pricing a year net to our customers as we help them try to achieve their cost targets and their cost models.
And I think that's actually one of the things that Lear does extremely well is help our customers reduce cost.
And so while the incremental volume typically comes in at 10% to 15% depending upon what region a car line comes in there's other offsetting type variance if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question for me.
You already mentioned that we've reached the bottom in Europe in your view.
We've heard from Autoliv yesterday that mix was improving there luxury was doing better maybe excess inventories are starting to come in line.
I'm just curious what may be the latest is that you're seeing on the ground I mean anecdotal evidence you're seeing that us as analysts on the outside aren't able to see.
We see steady.
It's -- Ryan it's been pretty steady.
There hasn't been shutdowns and extended shutdowns if you will that you would typically see when there's excess capacity in Europe.
So to us I would probably agree with what Autoliv said.
I think there's some strength in the luxury brands that also lend themselves to export.
And I think I've seen a little bit of chop in the A B platforms.
I think certain carmakers are doing a little bit better than others.
The Germans seem to be doing a little bit better than some of the other ones.
But all in all we're confident that we are at the bottom and we're seeing -- we're starting to see the recoveries sprout if you will.
Your next question comes from Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just continuing on the Seating conversation.
And you talked a little bit about further improvement beyond 2014.
Is that mainly volume driven at this point? Or are there additional cost actions or inefficiencies to give way beyond '14? I guess just how should we bucket in terms of order of magnitude the drivers that take us from call it a 6% level back to 7%? It's not just volume alone although volume would help us because one of the drivers that hurt the margins was the significant pullback in Europe where we received roughly 40% of our revenue in this segment from.
So a volume recovery there would be a part of the solution.
But as well it's also additional value engineering and commercial resolutions on some of these programs that are launching as well as the efficiencies associated with that program launch.
I would say each is about 1/3 responsible.
And there's just the ongoing existing operational efficiencies that we drive through every year.
So I would say it's pretty well balanced.
It's not all volume.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so I know one of the drivers you've talked about in the past is South America.
And I think you expect it to maybe turn profitable in the back half.
Did that occur during the quarter or...
During the third quarter no.
I think we had indicated that by the end of the year we had hoped to get to roughly break-even margins.
And I think the current assumptions right now would be we'd be in and around that area at the end of this year and ultimately getting into next year.
And that's specifically for Seating and Electrical business which has a footprint in South America as well.
They've been able to get to slightly profitable in the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on EPMS good to hear you sort of take up the longer-term margin target a little bit.
How are you on capacity? You talked about gaining share.
I mean are you going to need to build that out a little bit over time? Yes.
I think as we win new programs -- one of the reasons capital has been elevated is because of our significant backlog over this last several years.
We do have some level of excess capacity in northern Africa and in China to support future growth.
But at some level if we keep winning business at this rate then we would have to maintain what has been a slightly elevated capital spend.
But I don't think it will be incredibly meaningful.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last quick one for me.
When you talked about taking share on the EPMS business is that more on the wire harnessing side or on the connector side? Because I thought historically the connector-type business is a little bit stickier so just wondering if something changed there.
Or if you're winning business in that segment sort of what's the go-to-market strategy that's causing you to win? What's causing us to win in that segment -- and you're right it is a smaller segment for us and we don't have the full catalog of connector standard connectors.
What we specialize in is specialty and high-powered connector systems which is the higher value added.
And why we're winning business in that segment -- and we are winning business in all 3 major component groups: wire connectors and our junction box business.
What's driving the wins there and the market share gains in the connectors business is really the footprint -- the product is evolving to no -- more nonstandardized solutions because of high-powered and some other applications and the penetration of content.
But we've invested heavy in this segment.
We -- about 6 months ago I think we opened our first connectors facility in China and that's doing really well to support growth in that region.
So we are winning in all segments and it's being driven by our capabilities and the evolution of the components to more nonstandardized solutions.
Your next question comes from Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Any color -- at the beginning of the year you gave guidance at the Detroit show that EPMS would be -- sort of the outlook was around 8%.
And now you're guiding 9.5% to 10%.
What changed through the year? What has gotten a lot better that sort of makes you more bullish on the long-term outlook for that segment? I think our execution on transferring the product to lower-cost regions and some of the performance that we're seeing not only in North America and Europe but in the emerging markets has been very successful.
I think we worked very hard to design some costs out of the product and share the benefit of that with our customers.
So we're a little bit ahead of schedule on the product moves and the growth.
Volumes helped us at certain key car lines as well.
Research Division</strong> I mean this always comes up periodically but any thoughts on -- it doesn't seem like there's a lot of synergies between Seating and EPMS.
I mean would you ever consider divesting the business? What factors would you consider as you think about long term? No I wouldn't -- there's actually a lot of synergies between the 2 segments not the type direct synergies that you would think of.
But besides the fact that Seating uses a harness in their seats there's a lot of synergies from a commercial approach from a sharing of talent back and forth whether it's manufacturing talent or administrative talent commercial talent sharing admin centers and sales and technical centers all around the world logistics if you will have synergies and sharing truck lines and truck routes.
So there's a lot of hidden type of benefit.
We also believe there's a benefit in diversifying our portfolio and we have no intention of ever divesting EPMS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very clear.
And just lastly any update on where you view your share in China in both Seating and EPMS at this point? Yes.
In EPMS we're #4 but gaining quickly if you will behind Sumitomo Yazaki and Delphi.
And in Seating we're #2 behind Johnson Controls.
Research Division</strong> And any sense of the percent of the market in Seating you have or...
It's a hard market to call.
We estimate it at about low-20s.
I'm looking at my artificial intelligence low-20s.
But it's a hard market to call because of the joint ventures.
Your next question comes from Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Let's see 3 different questions.
First Seating margins.
And I don't mean to nitpick you here Matt but in the past you've talked about Seating margins maybe longer term getting up into that 7% to 8% range.
Today you're kind of talking a little bit about 7% range.
I guess I'm wondering has something changed in your view or is it just 7% -- 7% 8% is kind of the rough expectation.
We're seeing a gradual kind of evolution of the business to more direct-to-component sourcing which is nothing new.
It's just a continued trend.
We're also seeing a trend to sometimes build to print designs as they go to more common platforms and architectures all of which requires less capital intensity and less engineering intensity upfront which then results in I think commercial requirements to make less margins if you will and still have a significant return on investment.
So really it really depends on the mix of the business the amount of components the capital intensity.
For us in the current configuration of the business when we're above mid-5s if you will we're making a nice return on investment and have a gap to our cost of capital.
So between market pressures mix of the business we think longer-term margins will balance out at 7%.
But I really don't see it a whole lot different than 7% 7.5% but about 7% right now.
Research Division</strong> And then with the Electronics margins I mean your incremental margins over the past 8 quarters have been 22%.
So very very good incremental margins and you're pretty close to that longer-term margin target of 9.5% to 10% today.
And I guess what I'm wondering can you talk about some of the headwinds that you anticipate might kind of mute that incremental margin as you go forward.
Yes.
I mean first and foremost we're in a pretty competitive segment a lot of competitors out there and a lot of aggressive price targets from our customers who are looking always to reduce their costs.
That would probably be the biggest reasons why margins wouldn't grow let's say into perpetuity or expand behind -- well beyond let's say a 10% type number.
Our business too is a little bit different than some of our competitors'.
We're a little bit heavier in the wire harness as opposed to the electronics and terminal connectors which require a lower margin to have the type of returns that excess our cost of capital.
So I would say that's probably the main driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as I think about your capital you're kind of essentially net debt/cash neutral at this point in time.
You got little bit excess debt.
Your $750 million share repurchase kind of beyond March of 2014 seems to basically spend your free cash flow over that period of time.
That's obviously my guess but that seems like a reasonable approximation.
So that kind of leaves you net debt/cash neutral.
And you got a business generating $1.1 billion $1.2 billion in EBITDA.
A 1x net leverage ratio suggests that you've got maybe another $1 billion or so that you could do something with.
And I guess my question is what do you think you might do with that? Well I think having financial flexibility to invest in the business in future competitiveness and potential consolidation in the space is a good thing to have.
Still a relatively volatile industry uncertain industry and I think those with investment-grade metrics and financial flexibility will be the winner.
And with the global platforms and the expansion around the globe I think the firms that will win in the long run are those that have the capability to invest in that type of expansion.
So first and foremost we always look to invest in our business.
We've had nice returns not only in our organic investment as you can see with the market share gains and the margin improvement that we've had in Electrical but also with the Guilford acquisition which is performing extremely well.
We would look to continue to do investments of that type Brad first and foremost.
And I think the board has also demonstrated that excess cash will be returned to the shareholders.
Your next question comes from Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Another question on the EPMS share gains that you said you plan to get.
Have you seen any movement at all with the market share of the Japanese players there both their being found guilty in some of these antitrust investigations? No we have not seen that change the competitive landscape the fact that they had to plead guilty to price fixing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's fair.
A couple of housekeeping items.
Your corporate expenses as a percentage of revenue spiked a little bit this quarter to 1.6%.
Anything unusual going on there? And what do we assume as a normalized run rate? Yes.
No there's not anything unusual there.
What's happening is when we expand our global capabilities and add structure in places like Brazil Russia ASEAN China regions of the world when those facilities are shared or support business segments we capture it in the corporate HQ strip if you will.
So nothing unusual.
There's also some compensation costs associated that are buried in that number.
But I think on a go-forward basis Jeff the run rate would be -- how would you characterize it? I think in the near term we're probably looking at $55 million to $60 million on a quarterly basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Also your interest expense guidance seems to imply a pretty big bump in the fourth quarter.
Anything to explain that? I think what we've tried to do in the organization I think successfully so is this the amount of money that we have that isn't efficient for daily use we've been putting a heavy focus on that.
And these are in areas in -- primarily in Asia that are in countries that are difficult to pull cash or in some of our joint ventures where we try to pull money out of those joint ventures and bring it back to the U.S.
And ultimately as a result of bringing the cash back we've been able to improve our overall net interest expense situation which is kind of the reason why we improved the guidance in that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally on the ASR.
Your stock price right now is significantly above the price at which the ASR was struck.
Can you remind us again how that works at the end of the process? Do you have to hand shares back to the executor? Yes.
There's a settlement at the end of the ASR which could settle as late as March of next year.
And if the settlement price is ultimately above a certain breakeven point we'll either put back -- if the settlement price is above that breakeven point we'll have to either put back shares or cash to the bank.
And conversely if the settlement price is under that breakeven point we'll retire more shares as part of that settlement.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So I believe the settlement price is 66 67.
So do you expect to do that via cash or equity at this point? I think where we're probably at right now is that there is likely to be a settlement whereby we'd have to put back cash which we -- I think would be our preferred choice back to the bank in settlement.
It's a good problem to have.
And your final question comes from Matt Stover from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I understand the difference in margin between the EU and North America relative to the degree of vertical integration in the 2 markets.
Is there anything that would stop you from changing your vertical integration strategy in Europe? And if you could update us on how the margins look in the North American structures business relative to the average.
Yes.
I would tell you that we would want to go faster with vertical integration.
It's been a great investment for us in Europe.
We had some footprint issues that we needed to address and we have.
And it's been a great investment.
If anything I'd tell you that from our standpoint we have an industry-leading seat cover business there.
We'd be looking to bolster it with additional fabric and leather capabilities in Europe that's been a great investment for us in North America and in Asia.
From a structure standpoint foam we're making nice returns.
In North America I still think we have some footprint issues we need to address.
It's lagging slightly but I think it's doing well.
And I think it's a core competency if you're going to be in the business.
As the business evolves to common platforms common architecture higher requirements for safety I think you have to be in the structure business just like I think you need to be in the foam business to protect your quality and also to ensure that you're capturing a margin that's related to that product.
So they've been good investments.
We'd be looking to do more.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is on the M&amp;A front.
You identified that opportunistic M&amp;A could be a use of capital.
I've sensed in the market that there's a concern that you folks might go out and do something a little bit bigger than bolting on within your existing business.
Now I was wondering if you could kind of characterize how you guys think about the M&amp;A strategy.
Is it sort of more bolt-on and consolidation? Or are you looking at things that are bit more transformational? I mean first and foremost Matt we look at strategic fit as opposed to opportunistic.
And many of the things that we think would be a strategic fit aren't actually for sale.
So it takes a longer time to start the dialogue with the ownership groups on our interest and their desire possibly to sell.
From then we go on to a valuation and we look at buying at the right price.
And we've been very disciplined in our approach to market both strategically and on valuation as evidenced by what we've been able to achieve with Guilford.
From our standpoint we don't -- we talk about niche acquisitions or bolt-ons.
We don't think there is anything transformational out there nor do we think we need anything transformational.
We look for opportunities to strengthen our 2 core businesses to diversify and to add some technical capabilities.
I think you'll see acquisitions in the range of what we did with Guilford.
I don't see a significant one out there and I don't think we need one.
I think that's it isn't it? I have no further questions in queue.
Thank you.
For those of you that are still on the call our employees at Lear Corporation I want to thank you for all the hard work and effort and tell you to keep pushing.
Let's finish the year strong.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ed Lowenfeld you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update then Jeff Vanneste will cover our financial results and outlook then Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed and good morning.
Lear finished the year strong.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $4.3 billion up 14% from year ago and core operating earnings increased 9% to $208 million.
For the full year sales of $16.2 billion and core operating earnings of $839 million were up 11% and 10% respectively both more than double the global industry production increase of 4%.
2013 represented our fourth consecutive year of higher sales and adjusted earnings per share.
Our Electrical segment achieved record sales and earnings both in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Finally 2013 marked the third consecutive year we returned significant cash to our shareholders.
As outlined on Slide 5 our fourth quarter results overall were in line with previous guidance with our Seating margins coming in lower than expected while our Electrical margins were higher than expected.
Our Seating margin in the fourth quarter was 5%.
This was below our expectations reflecting slower-than-anticipated improvement in South America and manufacturing and launch inefficiencies in our North American structures business.
The remainder of our Seating business is performing well and in line with our expectations.
In South America we continue to experience inefficiencies related to the rapid growth of our sales in that region.
We're also facing a challenging economic environment with currency devaluation and wage inflation.
We're collaborating with our customers to identify solutions to address these challenges and while we are making progress it is taking longer than we've previously expected.
Over the last several years we've also rapidly expanded our North American structures business as we launched a new family of lighter-weight seat tracks and recliners.
As we ramp up production we are experiencing inefficiencies associated with the new manufacturing processes and materials.
We are improving our manufacturing processes and footprint to more effectively manage this growth.
Our Electrical business continues to perform extremely well benefiting from our industry-leading cost structure market share gains and content growth in these products.
We expect another year of record sales and earnings in 2014.
The company overall is performing well as reflected in our results and our outlook.
And for 2014 we expect to increase core operating earnings by approximately $100 million and post our fifth consecutive year of higher sales and earnings per share.
Slide 6 shows our trends of improving sales and earnings per share.
Since 2010 our sales have grown in an annual rate of 11% which is more than double the industry.
Over the same time frame our earnings per share have grown at an annual rate of 10%.
Slide 7 helps put our sales growth into perspective.
Both of our business segments are outpacing the industry growth rates and reflecting Lear's highly competitive cost structure as well as industry trends towards global vehicle platforms increasing direct-to-component sourcing and added feature content.
Our Electrical business is also benefiting from macro industry trends that are driving increased electrical content such as stricter fuel economy and emission standards increased consumer demand for safety and connectivity and additional comfort and convenient features.
Slide 8 shows the profile of our sales worldwide by vehicle segment and by customer.
We supply every major automotive manufacturer.
In Seating while we remain the world leader in luxury and performance seats we're also well diversified across all vehicle segments.
We're also very proud to provide seats to General Motors for the Corvette Stingray and Chevy Silverado this year's winners of the Car and Truck of the Year at the North American International Auto Show.
We've also made steady progress diversifying our sales by geographic region.
In 2013 62% of our sales were outside of North America.
Slide 9 highlights our rapid growth in key emerging markets.
Our sales in the BRIC countries continue to grow faster than the overall industry.
In 2013 consolidated sales were $3.2 billion in these markets.
It's up $1.2 billion or 61% since 2010.
Including nonconsolidated sales in the BRIC countries our sales in 2013 were $4.7 billion.
This represents an annual growth rate of 20% versus industry growth rates in these countries of 8% over the same period.
The Asia-Pacific region continues to grow rapidly and now represents 18% of our consolidated sales.
In addition we have $2 billion in sales at our nonconsolidated joint ventures primarily reflecting joint ventures in Asia which further diversifies our sales profiles.
While we serve all major markets in Asia our largest market in the region is China.
Since 2010 our total sales in China have almost doubled.
Slide 10 provides a summary of our nonconsolidated joint ventures.
We presently have 17 nonconsolidated joint ventures 10 of which are located in Asia and 3 of which support Asian customers in North America.
In 2013 we had $2 billion of revenue at our nonconsolidated joint ventures which is up $1.2 billion since 2010.
Our equity earnings at these JVs have also increased from $24 million in 2010 to $38 million last year.
We expect this profitable growth trend to continue.
Now let me turn it over to Jeff who'll take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 12 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the fourth quarter and the full year.
In the quarter 21.3 million vehicles were produced globally up 6% from 2012.
Our major markets showed increases with China North America and Europe up 20% 5% and 4% respectively.
For the full year global vehicle production was a record 82.6 million units up 4% from 2012.
Vehicle production in China increased to 19.3 million units up 14% from 2012 and vehicle production in North America increased 5% to 16.2 million units.
In Europe vehicle production stabilized in 2013 with a modest increase of 1%.
Vehicle production of 19.7 million units in 2013 remained below historical levels.
Slide 13 shows our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013.
In the fourth quarter pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $168 million up $9 million from a year ago.
For the full year pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $737 million up $31 million from 2012.
Equity income was $11 million in the fourth quarter.
Excluding onetime items in 2012 related to our previously owned IAC joint venture equity income increased by $2 million as compared to a year ago.
For the full year equity income was $38 million and excluding onetime items in 2012 equity income increased $13 million in 2013 primarily reflecting higher profitability at our joint ventures in China.
Interest expense was $17 million in the fourth quarter up $7 million and $68 million for the full year up $19 million primarily reflecting the impact of the $500 million bonds issued in January of 2013.
Other expense was $20 million in the fourth quarter and $58 million for the full year.
Excluding the impact of onetime items other expense was up $12 million and $25 million respectively for the fourth quarter and full year primarily reflecting losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Net income attributable to Lear was $73 million in the fourth quarter and $431 million for the full year.
The fourth quarter of 2012 was impacted by $767 million in onetime tax benefits related primarily to the release of our valuation allowance in the U.S.
Slide 14 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our fourth quarter results.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $37 million of restructuring costs primarily related to plant closures in Europe and various census-related actions.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $208 million up $17 million from 2012.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects the benefit of new business increased production on key platforms and operating efficiencies partially offset by the impact of the changeover on key programs.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the fourth quarter was $129 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.55.
Slide 15 provides a summary of our free cash flow.
We generated $259 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter and $367 million for the full year.
Slide 16 provides a snapshot of our cash debt and pension and OPEB obligations.
At the end of 2013 we had cash and debt of approximately $1 million each -- or $1 billion each.
We do not have any outstanding debt maturities until 2018.
Our unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities are $260 million as of the end of 2013 which is down substantially from a year ago reflecting strong asset returns and a higher discount rate.
Substantially all the U.S.
plans are frozen or at closed locations with no future benefit accruals.
We plan to maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet with investment-grade credit metrics.
This strong capital structure provides Lear with significant financial resources and flexibility which will allow us to invest in our business and drive profitable growth.
Slide 18 shows our industry production assumptions by major market for 2014.
Global industry production is forecasted to grow from 82.6 million units in 2013 to 85.1 million units in 2014 an increase of 3%.
Production in Europe is forecast to increase by 2% to 20.1 million units and production in North America is forecast to increase by 4% to 16.8 million units.
Rapid growth in key emerging markets continue with China and India leading the way with increases of 8% and 7% respectively.
Our 2014 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.35 per euro which is up 2% from our 2013 outlook.
Slide 19 shows a 5-year trend of our sales and core operating earnings.
At the midpoint of our 2014 guidance sales are projected to increase 6% to $17.2 billion and core operating earnings are projected to increase by 11% to $935 million.
Looking at the growth trend since 2010 this would imply annual growth of 9% in sales and 11% in core operating earnings through 2014 which is well in excess of the 4% global industry growth over the same time frame.
Slide 20 shows our 2014 outlook for adjusted margins for Lear as well as for both of our business segments.
We expect total company margins to increase to approximately 5.5% in 2014 up from 5.2% in 2013.
In Seating we expect first quarter 2014 margins to be slightly better than the fourth quarter of 2013.
And for the full year we expect margins in Seating to improve to a range of 5.5% to 6%.
We expect full year 2014 Electrical margins to be in the range of 10.5% to 11%.
Both of our business segments continue to generate strong cash flow and at our present mix of business provide returns in excess of our cost of capital.
Slide 21 outlines our detailed financial outlook which is unchanged from what we announced earlier this month.
Lear expects net sales to increase to $16.9 billion to $17.4 billion primarily reflecting the impact of our sales backlog.
Core operating earnings are forecasted in the range of $910 million to $960 million up almost $100 million from 2013 at the midpoint of our guidance range reflecting primarily higher sales and improving margins.
Our effective tax rate in 2014 is expected to be approximately 30%.
However given the benefit of our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20%.
We expect the cash tax rate to remain below the effective rate for the next several years.
Restructuring costs are expected to be approximately $65 million reflecting footprint actions as well as various census and other cost-reduction actions.
And free cash flow for 2014 is forecasted in the range of $350 million to $400 million.
Slide 22 provides a summary of our sales backlog for 2014 to 2016 which stands at $1.9 billion.
Approximately 70% of our backlog is in Seating and 30% is in Electrical.
We've continued to diversify our sales and we are adding new business in all regions of the world.
We expect strong growth in 2014 and 2015 with $950 million and $750 million respectively of new business coming online.
For 2016 there's still open-sourcing so we would expect that number to increase as new programs are awarded.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for a brief summary.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
2013 was our fourth consecutive year of higher sales earnings per share and significant cash generation.
We expect continued sales and earnings growth in 2014 as well as another year of strong cash generation.
We continue to follow a balanced strategy of making investments to profitably grow our business and to improve our competitive position while maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet and returning cash to our shareholders and it's working.
With that we'd be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I want to start off with a 2-part question on Seat margins one near-term and one long-term.
On the near term Jeff you mentioned looks like Q1 is going to be a bit below the full year range.
Maybe walk us through the levers for improvement throughout 2014 and perhaps where you think you'll exit.
And then the bigger question -- a bigger picture question on Seats is maybe if you can quantify or talk about sort of the remaining self-help or other factors within your control beyond 2014 that you can sort of get to improve the Seat margins on without the help of global volume maybe just talk about what the remaining initiatives are and what they're worth in terms of what you can do.
With respect to Q4 to Q1 as I said we expect the margins in Seating to improve slightly in Q1 really driven by the backlog coming onboard in that quarter.
With respect to some of the items in the fourth quarter specifically the North American metals and South America we expect some slight improvement in those areas but not meaningful in the first quarter.
As you go through the cadence of the remainder of 2014 we would see steady improvement in the North American metals business and ultimately at the end of the year be solidly profitable in that business going through the remainder of 2014.
In South America I think the cadence there will be a little bit slower.
I think we'll be at the end of the year in a profitable position.
But it's going to take a little longer in that segment to improve the earnings profile.
In the first quarter of next year as well given the launch cadence the launch costs are going to be slightly higher than it was in the first quarter.
We're also going to get the benefit in the quarter of some of the restructuring actions that we've taken throughout 2013 especially the ones that we initiated at the tail end of 2013.
So we'd have the exit rate of those going into 2014.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just secondly on the 2014 revenue guidance you ended 2013 on a very strong note.
It looks like if I just sort of take your global production and your backlog it kind of gets to the high end of the full year revenue range.
Any other factors to think about here or is your bias now perhaps towards the higher end given the strong exit in 2013? Well if the production levels stay consistent with what we're seeing on our platforms you'd probably shade the higher end of the revenue guidance quite frankly.
Some of the factors we have to keep in mind obviously the productivity reductions that we provide to our customers at typically run around 2% off the top Itay.
There's also FX that factors in to some regard into those numbers.
If we see the production on our platforms consistent with what was released by IHS I think a week ago we'd probably push more towards the higher end of the range than the midpoint.
And our next question comes from Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you first of all just elaborate a little bit more on the fourth quarter bridge in Seating? You had a 14% increase in sales and the EBIT declined from $163 million to $156 million.
You said it was structures and launches in South America.
What -- any more color on magnitudes of some of those headwinds in the quarter? Well I think the -- with respect to the fourth quarter our sales came in a bit higher than we had anticipated couple of hundred million.
We were able to get some benefit therein but some of the items in South America and in metals we had inefficiencies and all the things that Matt talked about that drove additional costs in the quarter.
That was really worth about 40 basis points in the quarter.
And as I said going into the first quarter of 2014 we would expect some slight improvement in those areas but not necessarily meaningful until you get beyond the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what was the loss in South America for the full year? You said you're going to exit breakeven this year.
The fourth quarter our loss down there was I believe $8 million to $9 million.
Research Division</strong> So for the year $20 million...
That's just in Seating.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So for the year 2013 the losses were roughly what for South America? Roughly $20 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And in the structures business can you just elaborate a little bit more on what actually needs to happen there? Obviously it's a challenging business but it's kind of a little bit of a mystery on what exactly are some of the challenges that are being incurred in that business.
Is it just pricing or is there some kind of manufacturing or commodity issue there? Yes.
It's probably several issues.
One is that business is going through a changeover much like the just-in-time businesses because the designs are interrelated in many cases.
A lot of what we're doing with the lighter-weight designs require lighter-weight materials and different manufacturing processes such as laser welding.
And so as we're growing in and maturing those processes Rod we're not as efficient as we would like there.
So I think what needs to be done there in certain cases there are pricing issues where we need to go back and get recovery.
The commodity market has stayed relatively stable so I don't think that's necessarily a driving factor in that particular segment.
I just think we need to burn in and get more efficient in our manufacturing process reduce the launch-related inefficiencies and get better capabilities on some of the -- like laser welding and new assembly process required by the lighter-weight designs.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly any thoughts on what we should be thinking vis-à-vis corporate expense for 2014? It was up a bit in the fourth quarter.
And on that authorization I think you still have $750 million authorized for 2 years that kicks in after the ASR but that doesn't really result in any material increase in the leverage given your free cash flow.
How should we be thinking about that? Is there something that would serve as a catalyst for you to kind of reassess leverage? Yes 2 separate questions.
Let me start with the HQ.
HQ is up in the fourth quarter driven by 2 factors.
One is the expansion into some of the emerging markets Asia South America if you will.
And that's driving costs as we kind of re-shift our structure from mature to emerging markets.
Secondly some of the benefit plans are a tad back loaded.
We'd expect on a go-forward basis that that number would come down by probably around $10 million on average for next year right as we get some costs out of some of the mature locations.
Heading into next year as far as your question on leverage we believe we could go up as high as 1.5 turns of EBITDA on the leverage and still maintain investment-grade metrics.
What would be required to do that is basically a need for the proceeds either through investment opportunities organically or more likely niche acquisitions that would help facilitate our component expansion our emerging market footprint or further diversification of our sales or even growth in Electrical.
So if we were able to execute a transaction like that we would be comfortable increasing our leverage.
And our next question comes from John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on Slide 21.
The free cash flow number that you're talking about on a year-over-year basis is roughly flat yet you're saying core operating earnings are up about $100 million.
D&amp;A has actually increased which is a good guide for free cash flow.
CapEx is flat.
Just trying to understand what's going on.
Is there sort of a vicious working capital swing of negative $100 million that you're expecting in 2014? It just seems like there's $100 million missing in that free cash flow number.
Yes.
Just setting the parameters our 2013 free cash flow was $367 million.
At the midpoint of our '14 guidance we're at $375 million $8 million to $10 million or so.
Earnings is up $100 million on a year-over-year basis.
You're right John that the primary issue is working capital and there's certain lumpiness in that working capital rationale.
One of them is the timing of customer payments.
We had anticipated getting paid by a couple of customers in 2014.
They accelerated some of those payments into 2013.
That created a good guy if you will for 2013 and a corresponding bad guy and '14 which is part of the reason.
Additionally we've got some working capital buildup associated with the growth of the business in 2014.
Restructuring cash will be slightly higher roughly $10 million higher in '14.
And then there are some other compensation-type payments that will be funded in 2014 that is a little bit greater than the expense that we're incurring through the course of 2014.
So there's an imbalance there between the expense that's in the OI number and the cash payout related to the 2013 performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's incredibly helpful.
Then just a second question as we look at the potential for consolidation in the Seating business particularly North America as maybe one of your large competitors exits.
You probably wouldn't be the buyer of that big a deal on the Seating side because you'd run into antitrust issues.
But could you be a buyer of seating assets in North America if they weren't that big-bang JCI deal if somebody else was forced to divest assets? Is that something that you've thought about as being part of the industry consolidation but obviously not the big consolidator? Absolutely we would.
It's not our primary focus though John.
I mean we're very strong in North America both in the just-in-time assembly in our mix of business and our components.
We would more be interested in a market that maybe we're less represented such as Asia or in components that we could possibly get stronger in such as leather.
If a niche acquisition if you will brought us further customer diversification in North America we would strongly consider it quite frankly.
But for the most part we're pretty happy with what we have here in this market.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly Matt there's quite a bit of noise about capacity adds here in North America although they seem like they're very much focused on sort of hiring more labor at the automaker level.
Is there anything that you're seeing in your quoting activity or what you're hearing from your customers that would be sort of alarming that we're going to rebuild some of the excess capacity that's been taken off-line and create some imbalances between supply and demand? Or are you just seeing sort of slow capacity adds on the labor front? I'm just trying to understand your perspective on what's going on in the industry as far as capacity sort of [indiscernible].
It's a lot different than it was probably pre-2008 John in that before I think collectively in North America we were sitting on a lot of excess capacity both with the OEs and with the supply base the supply community and it resulted in some lack of discipline on production where you would have running high inventories and then all of a sudden a massive correction.
That's not what we've seen.
I don't really have the concern here.
I do think in Europe there is excess capacity and I think the OEs are all struggling with how to adjust their capacity to demand if you will.
And the good news is we're starting to see that market show signs of recovery.
But in North America no I don't have that concern at all actually.
And our next question comes from Matt Stover from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> One follow-on to that question from Rod.
So South America's a piece and Seating is a piece and you described that as 40 bps.
And I still think that sort of comes up short on the year-to-year incremental and I'm wondering how much the impact of the changeover affected the Seating margins.
Well that's year-over-year basis Matt.
That's the biggest driver right now.
We're looking -- there's a lot of positives have gone on in that business but the headwind is we're looking at about 80 bps associated year-over-year in the fourth quarter with the program changeover associated with launching a very significant portion of the platform portfolio.
So that's about 80 basis points.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could kind of give us a sense on the structures business.
That's a higher-CapEx business and I recognize you're struggling with some operating issues.
But I'm kind of curious and interested in how you view the solution to that problem and the time frame over what you think improvement to something more along the lines of your target is achievable Matt.
Because I would assume you're losing money in that business but that's a business because of the capital you put in should have a better margin than your ambient margin in the Seating.
You're absolutely right on that.
But we -- overall we're not actually losing money on that business.
We lost money in North America in the quarter but that's the first quarter that we've lost money in North America.
The business was profitable in '12 and was profitable through the first half.
We've just had a fairly significant growth cadence and launch of new product in the fourth quarter.
Europe is profitable and Asia's profitable and performing at target.
The metals business is more capital-intensive than the JIT business and would need to kind of perform -- need to perform in the high single digits as far as margin to return on a -- in excess of its cost to capital.
As far as the go-forward plan I think it's a critical critical capability in order to be a world-class seat manufacturer -- designer and manufacturer to have the capabilities to do lightweight recliners and track mechanisms.
So it's a core competency.
We need to work through the manufacturing inefficiencies associated with all this new product that we're launching.
And our new family of structures and designs which includes frames tracks recliner mechanisms both power and manual are world-class.
And I think we just need to digest those new designs from a manufacturing standpoint and I do believe we'll exit the year at a profit in that segment in North America.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think that's sort of getting more to target as a '16 kind of thing or...
No.
No I don't.
I think this year we'll exit North America not necessarily at target but at a profit.
I think heading into '15 we'll exit '15 at the target margins overall for that segment.
But like I said we've had a lot of success in that structures business in other markets and we've had success in this market as well.
It's just over the last quarter 1.5 quarters we're struggling with launching this product.
I do believe there's some restructuring that still needs to be done in that segment in North America and we're in the process of looking at the footprint as well to make sure that we have it in the most possible footprint.
And our next question comes from Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes for me just one clarification and I should probably know this.
But the F-Series can you just give us a snapshot of what you have currently within your kind of complete portfolio of products and how that is set to change with the changeover of the new product at the end of the year? Well I would tell you they do not have the leader in luxury performance seating on that vehicle for seating but we do have some limited electrical components.
I think a few of their family of harnesses we're on but we don't really have a whole lot of content on that vehicle.
So I think that seat's provided by Johnson Controls.
Research Division</strong> And the amount of content that you have doesn't sound like it's going to change much with the new program.
No no.
I don't believe it will change at all actually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- my follow-up is on Latin America.
Can you give us a bit of a sense about what it is that's really kind of drawing out this turnaround? I mean is the recovery volume-dependent? In which case it's obviously harder to predict.
Is it a matter of getting more local sourcing to bring the costs down? If we could just get a little bit of a commentary on the pieces that need to fall into place there.
Well there's several pieces.
First off the environment there is very challenging in the fact that you've got the currency deval.
In many cases our contracts are in the local currency but the supply agreements are not because they're directed components from outside of that region.
So we need to work on a solution of localization or some sort of currency balancing working in a collaborative way with our customers and that always takes time because you don't fully control the equation.
You have a piece of it as rightsizing your facilities as you gain manufacturing efficiencies.
Brazil if you will is a very difficult market to reduce labor costs because it's a negotiation a much tougher negotiation than other markets to reduce labor.
In certain cases the product needs to be just repriced in the event that -- I think there's been engineering changes that have worked through the programs that haven't necessarily been recovered yet.
The volume it's not volume-dependent per se but what we would like to see is a more stable production release schedule.
When there is near-term changes in the production schedule that drives a lot of premium costs not only in manufacturing inefficiencies and overtime but in premium costs to bring the components into the manufacturing facility.
So while it's not necessarily volume-related what we'd like to see is a little bit more stable production release schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And one final one.
I mean I know this was asked at the Detroit Auto Show but with the benefit of a few more weeks obviously you had your major competitor significantly pare back its growth expectations in the seating segment.
Is that something that has potentially brought more opportunities or changed the quoting dynamics as you're looking forward over the next couple years? Well I think when anybody kind of makes public statements that it's not going to be as important or a focus or will not -- they'll challenge the investment or the commitment to it the customers have concerns.
And whenever the customer has concerns that creates an opportunity for the others in the space.
I think in this particular case it's no different.
In our business it's very important for the customers to know that in 3 years from now you're still committed to doing the products that you're quoting today.
So as others deemphasize the products we're in that's always a good thing for Lear.
And our next question comes from Emmanuel Rosner from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask you about your Asian joint ventures.
You gave us a lot of great detail in the earlier slide and I was obviously very impressed with the pace of growth over there.
At the same time you're also commenting that the average operating margin there is about 7%.
And I was curious if you could comment on how that profitability has been trending over time.
Has it been fairly stable? Is it benefiting from the volume growth or has it been under pressure from competition? No it's been actually fairly stable.
I mean for us many of the joint ventures are partnerships with the supply divisions of the customers and there's a slightly different process than you'll see typically in Europe or North America.
So there's a little bit more stability in pricing and in margins.
And I would say for the most part it's pretty stable at those rates.
Research Division</strong> And so the fact that it's around 7% is that really mostly reflection that it's mostly in the Seating business or is that just -- and then sort of fewer Electrical partnerships there? Or is that really the case? Yes.
It's about 70% Seating.
It almost reflects the business overall.
So yes it's about 70% Seating so that's why you see an average margin of 7% as opposed to something slightly higher that you would expect at an electronics facility.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then one more -- one follow-up on the Electrical margin bridge going into the first quarter.
I understand that some of the drag that you saw in the fourth quarter will modestly improve into Q1.
I wanted to ask specifically about the changeover cost going into the quarter.
Obviously you'll be launching the full-size SUVs which have some nice expensive seats at GM.
And I was curious will those launch costs and changeover costs be roughly stable quarter-over-quarter or can they actually increase in the first quarter? Slightly 2 different things.
I think starting with Electrical Electrical is not going to be as impacted by launch and product changeover in Q1 and we would expect their margin momentum on a year-over-year basis to continue.
And that kind of drives in many cases the guidance of 10.5% to 11% which is a little bit higher than what we've been talking about for that business over the past year as they continue their profitable growth and getting the benefit of a lot of restructuring actions that we've taken.
On the seat side I still think that through the first half of 2014 we'll be seeing headwinds on the product changeover as well the launch costs which are in many cases 2 separate things.
Product changeover we define as just the kind of profit profile of the business that's coming online versus the profile that it replaces.
Launch costs are really the inefficiencies associated with ramping up the plants and training the workforce on a new product.
The launch costs would be heavier in Seating through the first half and then diminish as the year goes on.
And that's one of the drivers on what we expect at segment with a steady improvement in margins as we start off the year a little bit lower than we expect to finish the year.
Research Division</strong> And is that an increased drag on a sequential basis as well Q1 versus Q4? Or is that roughly comparable because you were launching a lot of the new product in Q4 as well? I think Q1 will be a little bit better than Q4 both for Seating and for the company overall on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Sorry one final one on the acquisition.
There was some assembling in your press release.
You were saying consistent with your previous language you're looking obviously for acquisitions as a matter of priority.
Has there been any change in the landscape? Are you trying to signal that you're getting close to this or is this just a reiteration of your ongoing strategy for looking for acquisitions? It's our ongoing strategy of looking for acquisitions.
At any given time we're talking to numerous firms that fit what we're looking for strategically whether it's component capabilities diversification of sales gaining size in Electrical and leveraging our world-leading footprint and engineering capabilities in that segment.
So I don't think it's a change in stance or a change in status.
We are in ongoing dialogues with multiple firms that could possibly fit and help us.
And our next question comes from Colin Langan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just first question is more of a modeling question.
The other expenses of $20 million in the quarter you highlighted that was mostly FX-related.
Any color how we should model that line item going forward because that was quite -- up quite a bit year-over-year? I think the outlook for 2014 would be a decrease in that area.
I think our guidance would be in the mid-$30 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the FX is more balance sheet items being remeasured or it's not related to...
Exactly.
It's the revaluation of the balance sheet and the fluctuations in currencies that are driving those losses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at Europe continues to be a pretty massive outperformance relative to the market again in Q4.
Any color on how we should think about that outperformance? It looks like the market was up 1% and you were up about 13%.
So I mean is that mostly backlog of business or did you have favorable customer mix? And is that a risk next year if some of that mix is not as strong or goes the other way? No don't think it's a risk.
The good news about our business in Europe is we have a pretty wide bandwidth of both customer and platform mix so if the market does recover we usually benefit on one car line or the other.
I mean and a good section of our car lines also have an export leg whether it's the 3 Series BMW or the Jag Land Rovers or the Audis 4 and 6 C-Class Mercedes.
Many of the products have production or sales if you will outside of the home market.
So we're pretty well balanced there from both luxury and high-end vehicles all the way down to the entry-level AB platform.
So I don't view it as a risk that would be any different than just the overall production.
We continue to perform there.
We've put a lot of effort into restructuring our business there over the last several years.
Seating has remained more than solidly profitable and our Electrical division is performing consistent with target margins in that space.
So overall we're happy with the business segment there.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of Electrical I mean you've obviously grown quite significantly this year.
How are your competitors responding? Are you seeing a more difficult pricing environment as you've gained quite a bit of share? Well it's a difficult pricing environment.
But one of the things that we're able to do by controlling both the junction boxes and the design is a way to design cost out and meet many of their pricing challenges or cost-reduction targets through design and that helps us.
It is an aggressive space and quite frankly I think one that we can play extremely well in.
Research Division</strong> And any color on where -- what markets you were growing the most in that segment this year I mean geographically? It was really across the board.
I mean we're seeing solid growth in Europe where we've had a very mature business segment going back to the days of UT Automotive as well as in North America where we have an outstanding footprint in Electronics in Mexico as well as electrical distribution in Mexico and Honduras.
Asia is winning their share of business in this segment although I believe there's a whole lot more that we can do in that region.
ASEAN has been a great story for us with the footprint we've put down in Thailand.
So it's been pretty steady by region.
It's nice to see that business has grown both in revenue but also in the margin expansion.
And our next question comes from Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just want to press further.
I'm surprised that until the last caller there haven't been many questions about the Electrical segment.
Could you maybe comment on just what's driving this margin uptake? I guess my hypothesis would be connected car.
And how sustainable you see the growth in margin progress through mid-decade on that? Well what's driving the margin expansion for Lear has been pretty much the effort we put into our cost structure mainly the footprint.
Over the years Brian we've spent $300 million or $400 million restructuring that footprint and making sure that we have capabilities in places like Morocco and Tunisia and Romania and in ASEAN and in Brazil and that's driving profitable growth and allowed us to basically produce and be the low-cost producer in that segment.
So that drives growth and it also drives margin expansion.
As I know you've heard me talk about many cases the margins are really just an outcome of the investment that's required.
We're comfortable with a margin outlook in this business at 10.5% to 11% based on our capital intensity and engineering intensity and our balance of business between harnesses which are really low capital intensity versus junction box and connectors which require a higher margin to get the type of returns that are in excess of your cost of capital.
So we believe the 10.5% to 11% is sustainable and we believe at that rate we can continue to profitably grow our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think your prior guide was at 9.5% to 10% midterm so is this a higher guide than you had been looking for? It is.
It is and it's being driven by the fact that we can leverage the sales that we do have now and spread some of the fixed engineering that's required in this segment whether software development or some of the work that we're doing on battery charging and alternate energy vehicles is now spread over a larger base and that's driving it as well.
So yes the guidance is higher in this segment than where we were a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I noticed an activist -- or firm noted for its activism took a relatively significant position.
Is the dialogue with just that community in general does it continue to be around cash in the balance sheet? Or are there also questions about how you kind of further realize the value of that fast-growing higher-margin Electrical segment? No it's been -- we talked about first and foremost the business how we compete what's the business prospects.
In all dialogue I think they've been very complimentary of the company and how it's running its profit profile and projections.
Really the majority of the conversation is usually about capital structure.
And our next question comes from Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just have one question to add to what's already been discussed.
The Seating segment the Seating business doesn't strike me as being particularly fragmented.
Just given the nature or the importance of the JIT business to the OEMs and even the structures business do you need any kind of OEM approval for further consolidation of the industry? And do you know what their views on the consolidation in the industry are? Yes.
I would think that you would.
I mean formally they would probably have to change and assign their purchase orders to a new buyer so that gives them the right if you will to maybe not give you the thumbs-up.
So while technically you have the right to buy whoever you want as long as you pass this antitrust the reality is with the companies formally they have to approve the PO changeovers to the buyer.
Informally they have the sourcing ability to de-source a consolidation that maybe they weren't supportive of.
I do believe that in certain cases they would support consolidation because ultimately it reduces overall administrative costs and possibly adds synergies that they could share in.
But I would think that any real significant consolidation you would absolutely want to have the approval of your customers.
And your next question comes from Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Since you're in discussions and back to the prior question about capital deployment earlier in the call you kind of talked about the idea of feeling comfortable going up to 1.5x net leverage for it sounds like a transaction an acquisition or an opportunistic acquisition of some kind.
What are your thoughts on the capital deployment side? You've got the $750 million authorization.
That's potentially going to kick in after March 2014 here.
That seems to expend over a 2-year period of time.
Your free cash flow you've got net debt cash neutral $1.2 billion in EBITDA.
It kind of seems like you've got $1 billion $1.25 billion almost $1.5 billion to do something with.
What are your thoughts there? Our comments have been along the lines that we're comfortable with the 1.5 turns of gross leverage as opposed to net leverage.
From our standpoint we do have wherewithal to take advantage of any potential opportunities whether it's organic with the business growth or expansion of the footprint which has been very good for us and you've seen the results of it in Electrical.
Two we would look to participate in any significant consolidation in the space particularly in Electrical and also in the components and in Seating.
So I think from our standpoint having financial wherewithal is great.
As far as the share repurchase I'm proud of the fact that this board was one of the leaders in the segment to return cash to shareholders early on.
I mean we started back in 2010 which was a year out of the recovery period if you will.
So we were an earlier adopter of returning cash to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
So I think the board has demonstrated that they have a multipronged approach of investing in the business doing acquisitions when they make sense strategically and from a valuation standpoint and ultimately returning meaningful cash to the shareholders.
And Brett I don't expect that to not continue.
We do have ample financial wherewithal to do all 3.
Research Division</strong> From an acquisition standpoint a lot of what you've done up to this point is in bolt-on acquisitions.
Is there the potential for a more significant acquisition? I mean with let's say $1 billion plus $1.5 billion in capital that's quite a significant acquisition or war chest so to speak.
Are you thinking that that's a possibility? I don't see anything out there that would fit strategically at a valuation that would make sense to our shareholders.
If it was out there we do have obviously the financial flexibility to execute something like that.
I don't see it out there.
I don't see something that fits strategically at that size at a valuation that makes sense to our investors our shareholders.
So I don't think it's likely but yes if it was out there and if it fit and it was the right valuation and we could execute it and get the synergies that would justify the investment we would do it.
But I don't think it's probable Brett.
I think what's more probable is more along the lines of what you saw us do with Guilford which has been an excellent acquisition for us.
It's increased our capabilities and it's providing nice financial returns.
I think what you'll see is more along the lines of Guilford.
And with that I think that concludes the Q&amp;A.
No? There's more? I thought they said that was the last one? Did the others drop off Lisa or do we have any left? We still have 2 questions in queue.
Your next question comes from Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So it seems like that you're incrementally tweaking the tone today on 2014 Seating and Electrical margin relative to just a few weeks ago in Detroit really I guess extending on the trend you'd communicated then of in-line margins overall for the total company but a little bit softer at Seating and a little bit stronger in Electrical.
Just curious what's driving that latest tweak.
And could some of it relate to Seating kind of on-boarding lower-margin but good-return business that JCI is exiting? Or wouldn't you expect to see that in the results as soon as 2014? I would say that we're -- overall your assessment is probably right.
We're a little bit cautiously optimistic on the Seat business.
We had nice returns in Electrical.
We expect that to continue.
Overall we're very consistent with what we talked about a few weeks ago at the auto show with a meaningful improvement in company margins overall a nice step-up in the operating margins for Lear Corporation in 2014.
And we're very confident we'll be able to deliver those numbers.
We haven't seen the necessary benefit of Johnson's walking away if you will from any business.
I don't think that's really what's happening.
We have gained share from pretty much everybody in that segment as evidenced by the fact that we've grown faster than the industry overall and our backlog remains very strong.
We have gained share against Johnson Controls and others for that matter.
I would just tell you that from our standpoint what we want to do is guide at a number that we're extremely confident we can deliver.
And at these levels we're very confident we can deliver these guidance numbers.
And our final question comes from Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to follow on some of that last commentary and the commentary you said in Detroit about how there could be a longer-term opportunity from Johnson maybe walking away from some of that business.
I know you like that chit business it's good returns but it is lower margin.
And I just was curious if that shift in business has factored in at all to your longer-term expectations within the Seating business.
It's a great question Joe.
I would tell you that what is factored in is if the business became more -- a higher content of just-in-time business as opposed to component business or metals business if you will a lower margin would still provide a great return versus your cost of capital because it's not as capital-intensive as your just-in-time assembly.
And so from that standpoint the margin could be lower and still have a nice return for our shareholders if that was the case.
It hasn't factored in because quite frankly I don't see a change overall in the balance of the business between just-in-time metals and mechanisms and surface materials and cut-and-sew if you will.
Right now with the current composition of the business on average in the low 5 percents we're returning in excess of our cost of capital and that's kind of how we run the business.
So if it was to come -- and if just-in-time business was to come in a significant way and change that ratio if you will then yes the margin profile would be a little bit lower.
With that now I can say we're done.
So for those of you that remain on the line Lear employees I want to thank you for all your hard work and outstanding effort and for a great 2013.
That year is now behind us.
It's time for us to get focused on driving the performance forward in 2014.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld you may begin your conference sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update.
Next Jeff Vanneste will cover our financial results and outlook then Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
We’re off to a strong start to 2014 with another quarter of higher sales core operating earnings and earnings per share.
Sales in the first quarter were $4.4 billion up 10% from a year ago and double the global production increase of 5%.
Core operating earnings were up 21% to $143 million and adjusted earnings per share were up 42%.
We’re on track to deliver our fifth consecutive year of higher sales and adjusted earnings per share.
Both our business segments reported higher sales and grew faster than the industry in the first quarter.
In seating margins improved from the fourth quarter and operating earnings increased from a year ago.
In our electrical business we again achieved record sales and earnings.
In addition to the strong operating performance we took steps during the quarter to improve our capital structure by extending our debt maturities and lowering our average cost of debt.
We also continued to return cash to shareholders.
We increased our dividend for the third year in a row and we completed the accelerated share repurchase program which I’ll discuss in more detail on the next slide.
Based on our strong performance we are increasing our 2014 outlook which Jeff will discuss in more detail later in the presentation.
Slide five summarizes the $800 million ASR program which we announced a year ago with an incremental $750 million share repurchase authorization.
The ASR program was completed on March 31.
The total number of shares repurchased was 11.9 million and the total cost of the program was $855 million.
This is $55 million higher than originally estimated reflecting a higher average stock price over the life of the program.
As a result of the incremental $55 million needed to complete the ASR program Lear had $695 million of remaining repurchase authorization.
The remaining authorization reflects approximately 10% of our current market capitalization.
Slide six summarizes the key element of our capital allocation strategy.
The board consistently reviews capital allocation taking into account the company strategy business performance changing industry conditions and available investment opportunities.
We intend to maintain a strong and flexibility balance sheet with investment grade metrics.
Our customers view a strong balance sheet as an important factor in sourcing decisions because they’re depending on their suppliers to support [unintelligible] that can expend 8 to 10 years from the time of initial sourcing.
At our current level of business we are targeting minimum liquidity of approximately $1.5 billion to meet working capital requirements to provide near term investment flexibility and to protect against short term market disruptions.
In order to maintain investment grade metrics we believe the appropriate amount of gross leverage is approximately 1.5x EBITDA.
This allows us to continue to invest in the business take advantage of market opportunities and protect against the cyclicality of the auto industry.
Based on our present level of earnings increasing our gross leverage to a [turn and half] of EBITDA would provide approximately $800 million to $1 billion of additional capital.
We are growing faster than the industry and we expect this trend to continue based on our backlog and competitive position.
To support this growth capital expenditures have exceeded and will continue to exceed depreciation.
Capital spending in recent years has been in a range of 2.5% to 3% of sales or approximately 1.5x depreciation.
We expect capital expenditures to continue to be in this range.
We follow a disciplined approach to acquisitions taking into account the strategic fit as well as the fair market valuation.
We’re pursuing acquisitions in both our product lines that will help strengthen accelerate growth and improve returns.
We’re targeting acquisitions that will enhance our present product offerings facilitate further diversification of our customer mix increase our component capabilities and further penetrate emerging markets.
No transformational acquisitions are needed or planned.
The Guilford acquisition is a great example of the type of acquisition we are pursuing.
Guilford strengthened our industry leading cut and sew operations provided access to customers and managed design as well as manufacturing efficiencies that otherwise would not have been available.
This acquisition completed at a fair market valuation has provided incremental growth opportunities and enhanced the margin profile in seating.
We remain firmly committed to returning cash to shareholders through our share repurchase and dividend programs.
With the recent completion of our ASR program we have purchased 25% of the shares that were outstanding when we started our share repurchase program in early 2011.
Our remaining $695 million share repurchase authorization continues until April 2016.
While we plan to purchase shares on a consistent basis there we’ll opportunistically accelerate the pace of repurchase as the company has done in the past if market conditions warrant.
Our existing share repurchase authorization represents approximately 10% of our outstanding shares.
Combined with our annual dividend it roughly equals our expected total free cash flow for 2014 and 2015.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide eight shows vehicle production in our key markets for the first quarter.
In the quarter 21.7 million vehicles were produced globally up 5% from 2013.
Our major markets showed increases with China Europe and Africa and North America up 11% 7% and 6% respectively.
Market conditions were weaker in other key emerging markets with production declines in India Russia and Brazil.
Slide nine shows our financial results for the first quarter of 2014.
As Matt mentioned our sales which were up 10% continued to grow faster than the overall market.
The increase in sales in the quarter primarily reflects the addition of new business and increased production on key Lear platforms.
In the first quarter pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $215 million up $41 million from a year ago.
Equity income was $12 million in the first quarter up $4 million primarily reflecting higher profitability at our joint ventures in China.
Other expense was $29 million in the quarter up $19 million primarily reflecting $18 million in costs related to the early redemption of our 2018 bonds and 10% of our 2020 bonds.
Excluding the impact of one-time items other expense was up $5 million for the first quarter primarily reflecting losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Net income attributable to Lear was $122 million in the first quarter up $14 million.
Slide 10 shows the impact of non-operating items on our first quarter results.
During the first quarter we incurred $25 million of restructuring costs primarily related to capacity reductions in Europe and various census-related actions.
Excluding the impact of restructuring costs and other special items we had core operating earnings of $243 million up $42 million from 2013.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable operating performance the benefit of new business and increased production on key platforms partially offset by the impact of the changeover on key programs.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the quarter was $152 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.84 up 42%.
Slide 11 shows our first quarter adjusted margins for the total company as well as for both of our business segments.
Total company adjusted margins were 5.6% in the first quarter up 50 basis points from a year ago primarily reflecting improved performance in our electrical business.
In seating sales of $3.2 billion were up 11% from last year with adjusted earnings up $13 million.
Adjusted margins were 5.5% down slightly from a year ago but up from the 5.0% margin in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase in earnings from a year ago primarily reflects favorable operating performance strong sales growth and the benefit of operational restructuring actions partially offset by the impact of key program changeovers.
Our full year margin outlook for seating remains in the 5.5% to 6% range.
In electrical our positive momentum continued into the first quarter with record sales and earnings.
Adjusted margins were 12.3% up 360 basis points from a year ago reflecting operating efficiencies the benefit of operational restructuring actions and strong sales growth.
We expect full year margins in our electrical segment to be approximately 11%.
Slide 12 provides a summary of free cash flow.
Free cash flow was a use of $151 million in the first quarter primarily reflecting the timing of our March 29 fiscal quarter end as well as increased working capital to support our sales growth.
The early fiscal quarter end negatively impacted free cash flow as there were significant customer payments received just after quarter end.
Slide 13 highlights the key assumptions in our 2014 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in our major markets.
Global production of 84.8 million units is relatively unchanged from our prior guidance.
Our 2014 financial outlook is based on an average year assumption of $1.38 per euro up 2% from our prior outlook.
Slide 14 summarizes our 2014 outlook.
Based on our strong performance in the first quarter we are increasing full year guidance.
For 2014 Lear expects net sales in the range of $17.2 billion to $17.7 billion up $300 million from our prior guidance reflecting higher production our key platforms and the impact of foreign exchange.
Core operating earnings are forecasted to be in the range of $935 million to $985 million up $25 million from the prior outlook.
Tax expense is estimated to be in the range of $260 million to $275 million higher than our prior guidance reflecting the higher earnings.
Our effective tax rate in 2014 is expected to be approximately 30%.
However given our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20%.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted in the range of $580 million to $615 million.
Free cash flow for 2014 is forecasted in the range of $375 million to $425 million up $25 million from our prior outlook.
Now I’ll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
Nice job Jeff.
Thank you.
I thought we had a great quarter.
We increased earnings and gained share in both product lines.
We continued to invest in the business return cash to shareholders and produce strong shareholder returns.
So with that we’d be pleased to open the call for questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
I may have missed this but can you comment on your expectations for the seating margins for this year versus last year? They obviously looked really strong here this quarter.
I believe your guidance implies flat margins for the year.
And just kind of give us a few thoughts on the year over year bridge.
I know you guys have been talking about South America.
You’ve been hoping to get that to breakeven but obviously the market conditions there are now weaker.
And you’d been talking about getting that billion dollar North American structures business to exit this year at a profit.
How does that stand right now? I think right now it’s been a tough slog as you know in seating but we are making improvements.
We expect the margins to continue to trend upward towards that mid to high 5% range 5.5% to 6% range.
That would imply a higher number than last year overall.
A lot of variables going in.
First and foremost production.
It looks like we’re getting some stable production out of Europe and that’s helped us this year.
South America you’re right is increasingly difficult with the devaluation of the real and rising labor rate costs which requires health with the customer as far as restructuring and commercial recovery.
And our performance in the quarter was actually worse year over year but in line with the fourth quarter performance in that segment.
We are getting better in the structured business.
We are squeezing out manufacturing efficiencies and launching the product better.
But again in certain cases it requires restructuring and working with the customer to get the proper recovery for the engineering changes in those products.
The good news is we posted this type of performance still with I think upside in those businesses.
So overall I would say the trend continues to be positive in that segment.
We would expect the second quarter to be consistent with the first quarter.
We did get the benefit in the quarter of the timing of certain commercial recoveries that we were anticipating later in the year but we’re confident that we’ll continue to improve in that segment.
So the headwinds that are mitigating the margin upside for the full year are what’s for this year? I would tell you first and foremost the two underperforming segments if you will is North American structured business and South America.
We had a meaningful loss in South America and the recovery there while there are certain operational efficiencies that we need to gain in those facilities it’s really minor in comparison to the structural issues there which are mainly driven by the devaluation of the real which is the main currency we recover in.
Most of the materials that come in to be assembled there in the global programs are actually outside of the country in many cases outside the continent.
So you’re trapped into a material bind a currency that’s stronger versus the currency you’re recovering in.
We’re working with our customers to address that both from a price standpoint a localization standpoint and in certain cases a restructuring meaning that there’s probably certain product lines that make sense for someone else to do there.
These things take some time and unfortunately it’s not 100% in our control.
The good news is even with the year over year erosion in that segment and that region we’ve actually posted a fairly decent number this quarter.
And then lastly another very strong quarter 12% in electrical architecture.
Can you just remind us what your thoughts are kind of intermediate term margin potential for that business would be? You know we’ve guided to about 11%.
We think that’s the level where we can continue to profitably grow and gain share and provide very nice returns to our investors.
We benefited this quarter from a pretty strong mix and timing of certain commercial recoveries.
But overall we’re really optimistic in this segment.
It is growing.
We are gaining share and the segment itself the electrical distribution segment within the industry is growing faster than our other product lines as we move to more content in vehicles and more complex power trains in order to achieve the efficiency gains that are mandated.
Our next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citigroup.
Just to expand on the seat margins hoping you can maybe talk about where you think you roughly might exit the year? And then just sort of a medium term thinking for seat margins I know previously you talked about getting back north of 6%.
What’s your latest thinking there given that there’s some good news with Europe improving but also some of the challenges you talked about in South America? I think we’ll exit in the high fives from a margin standpoint.
We believe that 6% to 6.5% in this business is probably a medium term range where this segment should operate based on the current level of capital intensity and the current mix of component business.
Certain components and processes like just in time are not capital intensive and mandate a lower margin in order to get the proper return on investment.
And other ones in certain cases life structures are more capital intensive and would require margin higher than the average of this segment overall.
But at the current mix of business we believe that between 6% and 6.5% is the right run rate.
And that also takes into consideration a realistic view on the types of improvements we can expect in South America.
And then on the electrical side I think if I look back historically the Q1 margin for the segment tended to be lower than where you would end the year just over the last few years.
Is there anything different this year that you’ll be at 12% in Q1 but perhaps like 11% for the full year in terms of timing? It was a little bit aided by the timing of commercial settlements that we were kind of anticipating a little bit later in the year.
The business is benefitting from a lot of the actions that we’ve taken in the past related to restructuring plant closures and improving our footprint and expanding our capabilities in places like China and northern Africa and Eastern Europe.
And you’re seeing the benefit of that.
You know we’re confident that this business can maintain a margin profile in the 11% range.
Any updated thoughts on the other expense for the year? I think previously you were talking maybe in the mid-30s? I don’t know that we spoke to the mid-30s but just other expense on a sequential run rate standpoint was fairly equivalent to the fourth quarter but higher on a year over year basis.
Generally what’s happening in that subsegment is higher compensation related costs primarily incentive compensation rate cost coupled with the cost associated with supporting the growth that we’ve had in emerging markets.
Where we would see that segment on a full year basis is probably slight flat to potentially slightly up on a year over year basis for the same reasons.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
I don’t know if this is related to what you were just talking about in other expense but I think previously in sort of the corporate overhead you had talked about that being down about $10 million versus 2013.
And then it was obviously up quite significantly in the first quarter.
So I guess is that still valid? And if so what drives the balance of the year? It’s really driven by two factors and I think Jeff touched on them both.
We are expanding rapidly in the emerging markets and that requires us to expand our capabilities both from an administrative but also from an engineering and sales support process.
For instance in the first quarter we greatly expanded our capabilities in China to support the Asia region with a brand new center that increased our engineering capabilities in that region.
That’s one of the drivers.
The other one is performance based compensation and with the results improving this is where we capture those costs.
So that corporate then is more likely flattish or maybe even up for the year then? I think we’ll run around $60 million a quarter thereabouts Jeff? On average yeah.
A little bit of a spike in the first quarter but that will level down for the remainder of the year.
And then just on the EPMS which obviously continues to surprise the upside and it looks like you sort of keep on taking up the target maybe 50 basis points every time you report.
What really is a true midterm target for that business at this point do you think? About 11%.
[laughter] You know look we’re cautiously optimistic.
We think that the improvements in that business are sustainable.
And right now what we would guide everybody to is the 11% type number because that region I think we can continue to gain share profitably growth and have a nice return for our shareholders.
And so from that standpoint what we would guide everybody to is about 11% at this point.
And specifically in the first quarter there were just strong incrementals was that something versus the comparable period or something in this period that drove it a little bit higher? No I think certainly comparable as well to the first quarter last year.
But we did have as we looked at the full year we had anticipated the timing of those things to be later in the year and they kind of fell more so in the first quarter in both of the segments.
Our next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Any color on the outperformance in Europe? You were up I think about 17% while the market was up just 7%.
Is that customer mix or new business? Any estimate of how much of the outperformance was different from those different factors? It’s several different factors.
One we have a great mix of customers and product lines.
We’re everywhere from the entry level vehicles which have been challenged a little bit in the marketplace.
But also while we’re represented on the luxury brands and certain brands that lend themselves to export 3 series C class Jag Land Rover Audi A4 and A6.
So we’ve got a great kind of mix of business there and the car lines that are going.
And we are penetrating in both product lines.
So you’re seeing a combination of two things.
I think our mix speaks well and I think while down from historical levels we are seeing a recovery in production numbers in Europe year over year.
And our car lines are doing well and we’re taking share from people.
Yeah I would say so.
And you mentioned earlier that you’re targeting 1.5x leverage.
Can you remind us where your current leverage is today? And when you mentioned that there’s another $800 million to $1 billion of liquidity coming any timeframe of that and does that include the current authorization or repurchase? On the leverage side we’ve got about $1.1 billion in debt right now.
In terms of the additional liquidity capacity that we have it’s really dependent upon the deployment options we have for that additional capital.
We don’t envision borrowing for the sake of borrowing or borrowing from the remaining share repurchase authorization.
Between our free cash flow and our existing liquidity it’s more than ample enough to support the share repurchase.
And was your target of 1.5x net debt to EBITDA? Long term target? No what we said was that we can maintain investment grade credit metrics even with taking our gross leverage up to a turn and a half which provides additional capital to make these investments in the business or create shareholder value through other means.
You know we still have a lot of firepower is what we’re trying to say and we believe that even though our strategy has been to maintain investment grade metrics we can do that and still have a fairly significant increase in leverage for the right opportunity.
Any color on South America? Obviously that was a business you were trying to restructure.
Does the weakness there slow that down? Or is it a non-factor? Does it help because it’s shrinking that money losing business as a percentage of the total business? It’s a combination of things.
It is a very difficult environment to do business driven by hyperinflation in labor rates and devaluation in the real which is the main currency that we recover in.
So the environment is increasing challenged.
Operationally I think we are making the type of improvements.
There will be in certain cases I believe a restructuring of the business and possibly even handing back business that may make more sense for someone else to do because they might have the critical mass to do it.
But we’re confident that working with our customers that we’ll see improvements in that region.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Great electrical results.
Just want to kind of drill down on a couple of things there.
We know the recoveries we should back that out and kind of think about 11% margin business but if you kind of think of the margin improvement how would you split it between the low cost foundation that you’ve laid in this segment versus just incremental growth in content and maybe more profitable content as you get more into the wire business? Well it’s hard to make that breakdown but I would tell you that they’re both equally important.
We’ve spent going back to when we started our restructuring program around $500 million investing in this business through restructuring costs capital footprint actions to improve the cost structure of this business.
And I think we’re seeing in many cases the benefit of that.
The sales growth in certain cases actually came as a result of the fact that we were the most competitive cost structure in the industry for these product lines.
It does help when you have sales growth and backlog at the size that we do to absorb fixed costs.
So I don’t know Brian I would say roughly half and half.
And secondly you’ve talked about seating we should look through the margins and think of the ROIC.
Just wondering how you think about that in electrical.
It looks like capex as a percentage of sales runs about 150 basis points higher at least from last year.
On the other hand the margins are much higher.
Does that mean that really electrical is going to be a key driver of cash flow going forward? It will be a key driver of earnings and cash flow going forward as that business becomes very meaningful and the margin profile is very nice.
So the earnings contributions are meaningful the cash flow contributions are meaningful the return on investment is very nice in that segment.
And yeah I think it will be.
Our next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America.
Just one question on seating which might come out of left field a little bit.
But Matt do you see any potential for consolidation in the seating business that you could be involved in or maybe some other major players might execute? Yes on both counts but let me describe how I look at consolidation in that space.
I think from our standpoint we would look for more niche type tuck-in on the just in time.
And I think there’s still a lot of opportunity to consolidate some of the key components that we use surface materials foam in certain cases structures although we’re more focused on craftsmanship and comfort and differentiating the seating in that manner as opposed to the structure side of it.
I do think there’s the opportunity to consolidate the just in time players in a meaningful way but we won’t participate in it.
In many cases we would be precluded from doing it just because of our sheer size and market position from an antitrust standpoint.
So as the number two player from a market share standpoint I don’t see us participating in that.
But I do think there could be some tuck-ins on folks that are doing just in time on a regional basis currently.
But I think the real opportunity is going to be in the components.
And then second just as we look at the EPMS business do you think you need to do acquisitions there to broaden out your product portfolio to support growth? Or do you think you have enough right now in your portfolio to really create blue sky growth for quite some time? I would say that we don’t need to but I would like to.
Anything that would facilitate the growth there would be great.
We’d like to get better in the connectors business specifically from a components standpoint and additional mass in certain technical capabilities.
However without it we’ve been growing nicely.
Our backlog would suggest that we’re going to continue to grow nice and we’re continuing to take share.
And I don’t see that stopping but yeah it would be great to do an acquisition in this segment because I really believe this is the one of the areas in the vehicles where the content is just exploding between feature content that requires power to the sophistication of internal combustion power trains that require more signals to improve the efficiencies.
We’re just seeing an explosion of content in this segment and it’s a great place to be and we’re participating nicely in it.
And when you evaluate those potential acquisitions how do you think about sort of the margin return and growth profile of what you need to get? Is it the kind of stuff that might have lower margins but higher returns? Or similar margins and higher returns? Just trying to understand how you think about that financial hurdle.
You know it kind of depends.
If its connectors I would tell you that it might have higher margins and normalized returns just because it’s typically a higher engineered and capital type product.
So when we’re looking at acquisitions we look for strategic fit first and foremost then we look at the market valuation as a multiple of the earnings.
And then we look at what we can bring combined the synergies between the two of them both from a sales and cost standpoint and can we make the nice return on investment can we enhance our margin profile our return profile and are we buying it at a multiple that makes sense so an automotive multiple or component multiple that we’re buying into.
So we kind of balance a few different things.
If it was more along the electrical distribution wiring if you will then I think the margins could be lower to get the same return because it’s not as capital intensive.
And then just lastly we’ve heard from a lot of other suppliers that the market is heating up for available assets and activity seems to be picking up quite a bit in the electrical space.
Would you agree with that? And is there a lot of stuff that you’re looking at more so than you have been in recent history? We’ve really worked hard to try to find the right opportunity in that segment and we have been even though we haven’t made an acquisition in that space.
We’ve been working very very hard to reach out to firms.
We haven’t really seen a pickup in the products that we do.
Electrical distribution junction boxes connectors wiring harnesses we haven’t seen it.
There may be a pickup in some of the auxiliary or side type components that are electronic in nature.
We haven’t seen it in our space.
Our business development team and our management team in that segment are out beating the bushes to try to find the right fit for us from a component standpoint but to be honest with you I haven’t really seen it.
There are no further questions in queue at this time sir.
Great.
Well the folks that remain on the call are probably Lear employees.
I want to personally thank all of you for your hard work and effort because without the long hours and dedication we wouldn’t be posting the type of results that we are posting.
I want to remind everybody to attack waste in everything that we do and look to get better every single day.
So thank you very much.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute in order to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn our call over to Vice President Investor Relations Ed Lowenfeld.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ryan.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website lear.com through the Investor Relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled non-GAAP financial information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide three shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt will provide a company update then Jeff will cover our financial results and outlook and Matt will return with some wrap up comments.
Following the formal presentation we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to slide four and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great thanks Ed.
In the second quarter we continued our positive momentum with very strong operating results.
Sales in the second quarter were $4.6 billion up 11% from a year ago and more than tripled the global production increase of 3%.
Core operating earnings were up 23% to a record $275 million and earnings per share increased 31% also a new record.
Both of our business segments reported record sales and grew significantly faster than the industry in the second quarter.
In CD operating earnings increased from a year ago.
In our logical business we again achieved record sales and earnings.
We also continue to return cash to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $172 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Based on our strong performance we are increasing our 2014 outlook which Jeff will discuss in more detail little later in the presentation.
Slide five lists several key elements of our strategy.
We are filing a balanced approach of investing into the business making a strong and flexible balance sheet and returning cash to shareholders.
We have the product expertise global reach competitive footprint and financial flexibility to profitably grow our business.
We're also well positioned for significant industry trends towards global platforms direct performance sourcing and increased electrical content.
We plan to continue to invest in the emerging markets and increase our component capabilities in both business segments to improve our market position and returns.
We also continue to pursue our acquisitions that will complement our present product offering.
So we'll take further diversification of our sales and increase our component capabilities.
We’re focused on following the strategy and believe doing so will continue to drive value for our shareholders.
On the next few slides I’ll provide some perspective on performance on several of these key elements over the past few years.
Slide six highlights our financial performance since 2010.
Our sales and adjusted EPS have increased for four consecutive years and we’re on track for fifth consecutive year of higher sales and earnings per share in 2014.
Our sales have grown in the average rate of 1% per year since 2010 which is more than double the rate of the global industry.
Both our business segments are up outpacing industry growth rates and gaining market share reflecting Lear’s capability global reach and cost structure.
And we continue to win new business and further diversify our sales.
From 2010 through 2013 we generated almost $1.6 billion in cumulative free cash flow and since we began our share repurchase and dividend programs in 2011 we have returned $1.9 billion to our shareholders.
Slide seven highlights the expansion of our component capabilities in emerging markets and low cost countries.
We believe this strategy has improved our competitiveness enabled us to better support our customers and provided platform for future growth.
We also believe these actions are aligned with increasing customer trends towards global platforms localized content and increased direct-to-component sourcing.
Since 2010 we have invested approximately $450 million to open 24 new component facilities in low cost countries.
More than 80% of our component facilities and more than 90% of related workforce are now located in low cost countries.
Our sales in new component plants are forecasted to be over $1.5 billion this year and we believe they will be future drivers of sales and earnings growth.
Slide eight highlights our acquisition strategy.
We’re focusing our efforts on craftsmanships and innovation to differentiate Lear in the marketplace improve our quality and continue to provide value for our customers and our shareholders.
We followed a disciplined approach to acquisition taking into account the strategic fit and valuation.
We are pursuing acquisitions that will accelerate growth and improve returns.
We're targeting acquisitions that will enhance our present product offerings facilitate further diversification of our customer mix increase our component capabilities and increased our exposure with customers in emerging market.
The Guilford acquisition is a great example of the type of acquisition we are pursuing.
Guilford strengthened our industry leading cut-and-sew operations provides access to customers and adds design as well as manufacturing efficiencies that otherwise would not have been available.
This acquisition has provided incremental growth opportunities and enhanced the margin profile in seating.
Slide nine highlights improvements we made to our capital strategy while at the same time returning significant cash to shareholders.
Over the past two years we have access the capital market several times to reduce our borrowing costs extend our debt maturities and improve our liquidity profile.
During this time the rating agencies have recognized our efforts with rating upgrades.
Our strong capital structure provides Lear with significant financial resources and flexibility which allows us to invest in our business and drive profitable growth.
In 2011 we were one of the first automotive suppliers following the industry downturn to initiate a share repurchase program.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have repurchased 28.2 million shares or approximately 25% of our outstanding shares.
We’ve also increased our dividend for each of the last three years.
Now I would like to turn over to Jeff who will take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 11 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the second quarter.
In the quarter 21.4 million vehicles were produced globally up 3% from 2013.
Our major markets showed increases with China North America and Europe up 12% 4% and 2% respectively.
Industry production in Brazil declined 23%.
Slide 12 shows our financial results for the second quarter of 2014.
As Matt mentioned our sales which were up 11% continued to grow faster than the overall market.
The increase in sales in the quarter primarily reflects the addition of new business and increased production and key Lear platforms.
In the second quarter pre-tax income before equity income interest and other expense was 233 million up 32 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was 15 million in the second quarter down 3 million primarily reflecting interest savings related to the refinancing of our 2018 and 2020 notes.
Other expense was 17 million in the second quarter up 7 million primarily reflecting losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations and net income attributable to Lear was 149 million in the quarter up 11 million.
Slide 13 shows the impact of non-operating items on our second quarter results.
During the second quarter we incurred $43 million of restructuring cost primarily related to capacity reductions in Europe and various census related actions.
Excluding the impact of restructuring cost and other special items we had record core operating earnings of $275 million up $51 million from 2013.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the second quarter was $174 million and diluted earnings per share was up 31% to $2.12 per share.
Slide 14 shows our second quarter adjusted margins for the total company as well as for both business segments.
Total company adjusted margins were 6% in the quarter up 60 basis points from a year ago reflecting improved performance in our electrical business.
In seating sales of $3.4 billion were up 12% from last year with adjusted earnings up $19 million or 10% Adjusted margins were 5.7% down slightly from a year ago but up from the 5.5% margin in the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in earnings from a year ago primarily reflects strong sales growth favorable operating performance and the benefit of operational restructuring partially offset by the impact of key program changeovers.
Our full year margin outlook for seating remains in the 5.5% to 6% range.
In electrical our positive momentum continued into the second quarter with record sales and earnings.
Adjusted margins were 12.5% up 280 basis points from a year ago reflecting favorable operating performance and strong sales growth.
Given the strong performance in the first half of 2014 we expect full year margins in our electrical segment to be approximately 11.5% to 12%.
Slide 15 provides a summary of free-cash flow which as 137 million in the second quarter.
Slide 16 highlights the key assumptions in our 2014 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in our major markets.
Global production of 85.7 million units is up 1% from our prior guidance with Europe up 2% and North America up 1%.
Our 2014 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.37 per euro which is down 1% from our prior outlook.
Slide 17 summarizes our 2014 outlook.
Based in our strong performance in the first half of the year we are increasing full year guidance.
For 2014 Lear expects net sales in the range of 17.6 billion to 17.9 billion up from the prior guidance of 17.2 billion to 17.7 billion reflecting higher production on our key platforms.
Core operating earnings are forecasted to be in the range of 975 million to 1.025 billion up 40 million from the prior outlook reflecting increase in sales in first half performance.
Tax expenses estimated to be in the range of 270 million to 285 million.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted in the range of 610 million to 645 million.
Pre-tax operational restructuring costs are expected to be approximately 90 million up 25 million from the prior outlook reflecting planned consolidations in Europe and other senses related actions.
Free-cash flow for 2014 is forecasted in the range of 400 million to 450 million which is up 25 million from our prior outlook.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
I thought we had a great quarter.
I thought the Lear team did an outstanding job.
We remained focus on driving continued improvement in the business improve quality and cost for our customers and returns for our shareholders.
We continue to invest in the business and return cash to shareholders while improving our competitiveness.
And with that I’d like to open it up for questions Ryan.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Can you hear me? Yes good morning Rod.
Couple of things first on the electrical business in 2012 and in ‘13 your margins were actually higher in the back half than they were in the first half is I guess a pretty steep trajectory over that timeframe.
I am wondering why are they [15] something specific in the second half of this year that would cause the electrical margins to moderate meaningfully from what you were seeing in the first half or is there some conservatism that’s parted in there? No it’s a pretty clean first half Rod.
The business obviously is performing quite well.
I think it’s benefiting from a lot of restructuring efforts that we’ve made there and it also benefited to the first half of pretty strong and volume we see sales decreasing slightly in this segment in the second half versus the first half of the year.
And so really that’s more than anything.
Just seasonality of the sales level and some… I mean this business had a big exposure to Europe or bigger percentage exposure to Europe as seating and with the third quarter being down for the normal season shutdown season in Europe which extents a little bit longer than it does in North America and it impacted a little bit disproportionally it also benefited to the first half of a pretty strong mix on a product that we apply content high content.
Okay.
And secondly could you give us a little bit more color on what you're saying in terms of the drivers of the seating business.
You've said obviously a very focused on the turnaround in South America is that business still loss making do you still think you can get breakeven there even with the headwinds in terms of production at the end of this year and what do you think the exact rate could be maybe on the North American structures business? Let me start with the first.
North American structure business had a very strong quarter still not where it need to be but it return to profitability.
We are still working through some structural issues as well some commercial issues with our customers in a collaborative way.
So made a nice job the team did a really nice job in that segment.
South America is a little bit more of the challenge which we are trying to make corrections in a very dynamic environment which includes inflation as well as volume cuts specifically in Brazil.
So we did make improvements sequentially from the first quarter it’s still not profitable on the seat side but we would expect that to continue through the end of the year we expect to get closure to breakeven by the time that we exit.
Our guidance is based on improving to the second half of the year in that segment.
You think you can get pretty close to breakeven by year-end there even with the weak you do? I do.
We are working with our customers it is going to take some help from our customers to help us work through some commercial issues and consolidation that needs to get done there to address some of the over capacity and volume shortfalls but yes I think we can improve.
On the structures business is there some kind of targeted exit rate that you might be able to share with us what kind of margin range do you think that business can get to?  We made a nice improvement; it’s not at the target rate that we needed at to justify the investment yet.
The segment overall though meaning structures business when you take into consideration Europe and Asia is doing quite well and is approaching the margins we needed to be at to justify the investment in which we think is in the approximately 10%.
[Electrical] the upside in North American structured business isn’t there yet Rod nor will we expect it to exit there but we will continue to make sequential improvements every quarter in that segment.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hey John.
Just a first question on slide seven.
You are talking about sort of more components and models in emerging markets.
And I am just curious as we think about the receptivity of your customers to larger parts of the car where modules that you would provide is there the potential for some real margin expansion as you are providing a sort of a larger chunk of the car in the seating and electrical components? And then also as we look at this you kind of on the last bullet talk about reaching full capacity sometime in the future meaning you are not at full capacity right now.
So it seems like there could be some more margin potential as you fill up that capacity just curious where you are in that capacity utilization as well.
Well it really depends on the component the market and the program.
I think a lot of our facilities in Europe if you will still have open capacity especially just in time facilities because they have not reached the level of volume that was planned.
I mean while they’ve made a nice recovery they are still significantly below peak volumes; I think that's an opportunity.
Our component facilities in the low cost in Europe are getting fairly full the same thing in North America.
I do think we have opportunities in certain facilities in Asia to increase capacity as well.
As far as the margin expansion and acquisitions John it really comes down to what the component is and what the return on investment is required to justify the investment.
I do think overall however that acquisitions provide the once we're looking at the valuations we're looking at would provide an opportunity to not only expand sales and improved quality but also expand margins.
Okay.
And just a follow up I mean as you are seeing some of this capacity fill up do you envision maybe in a year or two an accelerated level of investment spend that might depress your margins or do you think that given your current base of business that as you invest for growth maybe in the next year or two above and beyond what you are doing right now that you wouldn't see that kind of compression or leveling out in margins.
I really John I don't see a real need to step up capital expenditures from the way that we have been doing over the last couple of years.
It would be great if we could because I think that provides a nice return in the organic investment piece of the thing.
And we've been able to have nice returns on the capital investments that we’ve made.
I think the rate that we're at currently is pretty good and should allow us to support the backlog that we have into the business that we're winning.
I don't really see a negative headwind in that area.
Jeff? I would agree I think there is some structuring that still needs to take place in some instances which may require some capital but other than that just on the book of business.
Okay.
Then if we think about that sort of in the context the capital allocation obviously you guys are being pretty acquisitive on your own stock and with it up 50% in the last year and three times in last two years obviously it's gotten a little bit more expensive but still looks like a good deal.
I mean as you look at that versus what the stock has done and sort of the acquisition environment that out there I mean how are you looking at capital allocation because you do have the high class problem of generating a tremendous amount for free-cash flow and not being levered at this point? And it seems like you've been aggressive but you might need to get more aggressive in allocating capital to generate adequate returns on that incremental capital.
I mean how are you assessing the stock versus acquisitions right now and could you get more aggressive on either side?  Well I think we're still at discounted space.
I think the beauty of our balance sheet and the cash generation that we expect this year doesn't make one or the other exclusive I think we can do both.
I like the pace that we're on from share repurchase the same token I believe if we could buy an asset that would either provide benefit to the craftsmanship and seating or provide innovation and some help in electrical to expand that business a little bit faster.
We do it but it has to be the right strategic fit and it has to be at the right valuation.
But I don't think there are either/or questions John at both.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
So it looks like you are raising most or all of the guidance items for the full year in excess of -- relative to the street in 2Q.
so I am curious is that your indication that your outlook for the back half of the year is now stronger than before or can’t really say that because I don’t know exactly what you’re assuming for 2Q.
If it is you’re taking it to back half what would you say are the biggest changes to your forecast in terms of geographies or customers there? What Jeff said in the call and what I said a little bit earlier is we had a nice first half with a strong mix the fundamentals in the industry from the SAAR to European recovery to the rate of growth in Asia are all really strong the one kind of blemish would be South American production environment and exchange environment internally I like where we’re at I like the performance.
We’re six months in and we’re a little bit ahead of pace and that’s why we decided from what we see to increase guidance.
So overall it’s a lot of different factors that going to build into projections but those were positive the main drivers Ryan.
Okay thanks.
And then with this talk of your effort -- I think a lot of people are surprised but it’s been confirmed that those companies there has been some increased speculation that there could be other large industrial combinations in auto parts and sort of that we haven’t seen since the downturn.
So I am curious where do you think the seatings of subset that fits into this if this is some sort of emerging trend? I really don’t know I know we’re not in talks with anybody you’re a little bit ahead and to speculated somebody else’s it’s really probably a better question for somebody in the investment banking side than for us.
We’re happy where we’re in proceeding and we’re in no talks with anybody.
Got it.
Great thanks.
And then just last question you’ve given some electrical margin guidance for the full year obviously strong margin result this quarter and in the last quarter (inaudible) and there was talk on the call then that it been some lumpiness of commercial settlements is that kind of kind of continue to into 2Q or.
No it was a pretty clean quarter the team did an outstanding job performing and executing and we benefited from a nice volume on our key platforms and then we expected to be a little bit weaker in the back half but overall the team is doing outstanding job.
Okay congrats on that.
Thanks all the color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning guys and congrats.
Thanks Itay.
Just wanted to gage just get to your latest thoughts on the mid-term outlook for electrical both of course margins and then also where you think revenue growth can get to I mean we have seen this with the mix in the first half growth might be running ahead of expectations.
And kind of how your balancing booking activity I presume there is a lot of opportunity out there for you to grow with the margin objective in mind? I think first and foremost on electrical besides looking at Lear before we look at Lear specifically that segment is benefiting from a real shift with content growth even the traditional architectures internal combustion architectures has seen a content growth that in excess of 3% a year just not a base business.
More and more content in electrical distribution requirements are going into these vehicles as it has become more complicated have more features and use more computer management to extend mileage of you will.
If you couple that with the penetration of alternate energy vehicles I think there is a huge opportunity increase content.
When you look at Lear specifically I think the restructuring efforts and the product capabilities that we've invested in prior years is really starting to pay dividends now with the win and new business things like connectors facility facilities in China and electronics facility in Northern Africa are now starting to facilitate growth and we would expect that trend to continue.
From backlog standpoint I think this when you look at your backlog in this segment I think it could easily be in addition $1 billion on the next four or five years.
That’s very helpful and detail.
Then with maybe increased discussion today on M&amp;A Matt hoping you can just review for us your latest thoughts on leverage target maybe gross and net and also just liquidity requirement just given that that you are growing revenue whether any of those has changed at all?  I think as we have said in the past our leverage target on a gross basis is 1.5 times or less we feel that’s important to maintain the investment grade and credit metrics now that gives us some room obviously from where we are at to get that probably $800 million or so of debt could be added and still stay within that range.
And then we would like to maintain minimum liquidity of roughly 1.5 billion that takes into accounts the peaks and trough of working capital in the business cash that’s not necessarily available for daily use .And then an amount related to set aside for taking advantage of opportunities that maybe out there short term market disruptions et cetera.
So that’s how we view kind of what we need from a leverage and from a liquidity standpoint.
Very helpful.
And then just a quick last housekeeping it look like other expense you mentioned some of the impacts there it was above the equity income it looks like for the guidance for the full year those two might still be assumed at zero as a thought that other expense trails off in the second half or the equity income rises or maybe a combination of two maybe just help us out there a little bit?  I think the equity side was the issue with the equity side if there is an issue in the quarter where there is some launch cost incurred in some of the Chinese non-consolidated joint ventures that are supporting new business growth going forward.
So we would see that improving as we go down the line.
And the other expense is really related to the FX volatility that's out there and the revaluation of the balance sheets is associated with that.
And some of the currencies have been seemingly over the last several quarters working against this.
So we would see that hopefully overtime bouncing in out and hopefully at some point benefiting us.
Right.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much guys and congrats again.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Pat.
Just I guess a couple of follow ups based on the discussion so far.
As you think about the margins on the electrical side obviously you keep on hearing sort of new peaks here.
Can you just give us a little bit of perspective as to how close we are to what you assume kind of to be sort of the sustainable margin? And also maybe just kind of layering on just what the potential that changed that is if you kind of shift the mix of business over to connectors what kind of opportunity there is to sort of bring the margin up relative to the current run rate? Well as everything in the margin is really more of an outcome on the upfront investment whether it's engineering or capital.
With us right now we are probably a little bit heavier in wire harnesses than we are in electronics in connectors compared to our major competitors in this segment.
With the current capital configuration of front capital investment capital intensity.
We started returning nicely in excess of our cost of capital in the low 6%.
I think the margin profile that Jeff talked about in this business is sustainable and will allow us to continue to penetrate engage here.
If we went into more capital in terms of electronics in a greater way or a heavier percentage whether it's the junction boxes or the connectors then that would be a reason why we could expand margins.
Right now steady state we don't see a major shift in those products as a ratio to wire harnesses so we believe that we can grow the business at the margins that its currently at and maintain that 1.5% to 2% margin profile.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the other business segment since I guess it was the end of last year a major competitor of your is kind of highlighted that it sounds seating growth would be relatively stable flat because it was kind of pruning its portfolio.
Just wanted to see has that had any kind of impact on your coating activity in terms of the margin opportunity or things? Is there any evidence that as far as the new backlog is concerned things are getting a little bit more disciplined?  I think what's important to customers when your quoting is known as who is going to do the business three to five years out.
With us there is no question of where we're going to be and what we're going to be doing three to five years from now.
We're going to be making the best seats in the world.
And I think that is important to our customer that provides an opportunity the stability of the ownership the stability of the organization is incredibly important as you would expect to our customers they would be producing global platforms all around the world.
From a margin standpoint again margins are reflection more of the upfront investment everything we do whether it’s capital; acquisitions; restructuring we look at as a return on investment and coding is different than that.
And the seating segment and its current capital intensity we’re returning in excess of our cost of capital once we break through the 5% margin.
We expect those margins where they’re at right now they continue to improve but there is a limitation on how far you can push them just because of even with potential consolidation.
There is still competition in the space.
But overall from an opportunity standpoint one or two that can do a global platform and all the related components in automotive producing region in the world.
And if there is uncertainty one of those suppliers where they’re going to be in three to five years then absolutely that’s the opportunity for the other one.
Got it.
And just kind of tying everything together just on the seating side; it sounds like just to make sure I have this correctly.
Some of the drivers aside from the one we just talked about are the breakeven in the Latin America and as well as increased sequential improvements in the components is that sort of as you get to your margin target for this year are those kind of the key levers? Those are two key levers I think there is other ones as well digesting the growth that we’re seeing on some of the new platforms and making sure that run them efficiently it’s also seeing continued recovery in Europe.
We made a very nice step in Europe this quarter digesting the growth that we’ve had there but also taking advantage of some of the volume uptick on our key platforms.
We need to see that trend continue.
And I think those are probably the major drivers.
Alright terrific.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First electrical margins I think the last update your longer term target rate was going to be 10.5% to 11%.
I'm kind of wondering what you're thinking now? You're running at 12% the last eight quarters your contribution margins of the 29% based on my calculations.
I don't sense that there is going to be any dramatic change in your capital expenditure and/or maybe your backlog coming on line that might drive those margins down.
So it all kind of suggests or seems to indicate or point to the idea that your margins and that business likely will continue to go up.
And I don't I know you don't handspring yourself because you've got across the capital is kind of the mid 6% range and so you might take some 10% business which you kind of pressure your margins.
But I don't see doing that at this point in time.
So how do we think about your longer term margin expectations for that business or maybe even just the next year or two? I think Brett you hit a really good point which is in certain cases 10% margin business would be great business for us just because of our -- it depends on capital intensity and quite frankly on harnesses I think you start returning in excess of your cost of capital when you break through the high 5% because it’s not that capital intensive.
So I don't want to handspring the business.
But I think on average we can maintain continue to grow the business and be in 11% to 12% margin rate.
Certain quarters will be above that like this one and other quarters might be slightly below it but on average that’s kind of the range that I think we can manage this business at.
And I guess what I am not necessarily hearing is any particular disruption over the next year or two step function change and expense spending R&amp;D spending capital intensity or I don’t hear any of that I just -- is this right…  I don’t see anything Brett right now that would disrupt it.
I mean there is nothing our horizon business is dynamic things change it’s kind of hard to say where are you going to be 24 months from now more than a narrow range of between 11% to 12% margins on this business.
But there is really -- I really don’t see anything out there if the backlog and production stays and the volume assumptions stay consistent with where we are at right now.
And then switching gears here on an M&amp;A front it sounds like you like to expand your expertise in your current portfolio of businesses.
Can you maybe provide a little bit more some specific examples of maybe the types of products that you might be looking for? I assume connectors might be an example but can you kind of talk through maybe the two or three or four things around the top of your wish list?  Yes connectors would be obviously one.
I think in the past we talked about leather that would be another one because it ties into both innovation and craftsmanship; possibly heating and cooling and lumber mechanisms on seating.
I think anything that would help our ability to write software and code intellectual could also help but really just focusing broadly our craftsmanship and seating and more innovation in electrical.
Okay.
And on the capital deployment front I think Jeff if I understood you correctly earlier you kind of talked about -- we seem to have about $800 million of capital available.
We would like to keep some dry powder for M&amp;A and that sort of thing.
So I guess my question is your current pace of share repurchase plus your dividend kind of burns free cash flow.
A year from now two years from now do you kind of think that $800 million in your balance sheet is kind of where you want to be? Or do you kind of look at that go you know what we probably need half of that? Well a lot depends on where the business is obviously in a couple of years our backlogs are going to be greater and our sales are likely to be greater given the backlog.
So it's hard to go that far out and pinpoint kind of what we need but I don't know because the direction itself will be much different maybe the dollar amount maybe different.
Okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thanks Brett.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning Joe.
Maybe just building off that M&amp;A ticklers that you just mentioned.
I mean you have clearly mentioned connectors before I'm curious would you does it need to be do you need to add something that you've already at least have some positioning or would you even consider something like sensors with some other connectors players do as well that's maybe a little ancillary to the actual business.
Well we would consider it.
It really depends on the technology and the capabilities on manufacturing and tooling specific with that.
So we want to rule it out we think there is a convergence of sensors to connectors and lot of players that are in there are in both product lines we wouldn’t rule it out but it would have to be it’d have to be compelling with the capabilities on the connector side.
Okay.
And then just bigger picture on electrical I know you also I believe that's almost exclusively or at least the vast majority is all automotive I was wondering is there any opportunity to take your core competency into other end markets?  Oh absolutely I think there is capabilities both in connectors to extend beyond automotive it's very much the same technology.
And I think a lot of our battery charging technology and intellectual properties have applications outside of automotive and I think the electrical distribution also whether it's heavy truck or white goods will have to have applications to be non-automotive.
And I think that's not just true for electrical I think that's true for seating in some of the precision assembly.
Our fabric and (inaudible) capabilities came in with a nice with small book of non-automotive business.
And I think that's a great way to spread your technology and leverage your investment and de-risk the company.
So yeah I think there is applications there.
But right now on stuff like the electrical distribution it is our light vehicle for now.
It is our light vehicle for now.
Okay.
And are there discussions with some of those other players?  I don't want to discuss specific acquisition targets.
We would be open however to if the company have both automotive and non-automotive we would be open to discuss it.
Well I guess organically are you having those discussions with some of the other end markets?  Always.
Okay.
And then just one quick housekeeping what was launch cost in seating was that on a year-over-year basis pretty neutral in the year or good guy or bad guy?  It was improved on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Ravi.
There was an urgent question on JCI and Seating and the flow through to you but and EPMS as well your press release mentioned share gains that potential deal win this quarter.
Can you flex out a little bit more are you seeing any shifts in market share and as a result of maybe the fall out of the antitrust investigations or something else out there? I don’t want to speculate on why we’re gaining share and whether or not we have something to do with the antitrust that are in certain competitors.
We are gaining share I’d like I think it’s because of our product and our footprint and the investments that we’ve made and our capabilities is at the end of the day I really think that’s what drives sustained growth and I believe our footprint is second to none in the space and I think we’ve got outstanding products and think what’s driving the growth.
Great.
That’s a good segment of our next question which is if you look at the about 500 basis points margin improvement you had in EPMS since 2012 just very roughly how much of that do you think maybe a result of your cost and footprint actions versus growing content in the car versus mix between harnesses and connectors? Well it’s a tough question we don’t really play and look at that but I had a factory I guess I probably say half and half.
Half and half okay.
Got it.
And just finally it was good to see your corporate costs come back closer to a normalized level of 1.3% 1.4% versus 1.6% 1.7% to the last three quarters is that now sustainable downrate do you think? Yes I think so.
I think going forward you will see something very similar that through the remainder of the year.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of line of Colin [Lagnan] from UBS.
Your line is open.
Great thanks for taking my question.
Earlier this week GM announced some recalls with seating issues.
Could you just clarify whether you were on any of those platforms and if that's a risk going forward? Our history with our customers is that we participate in helping them solve any warranty issues and one of the things that you give -- we as a supplier is the building stand behind our products.
We don't want to specify specific programs but when you saw many features as we do to every customer in the world there is going to be no doubt a time when we have a recall we just taker it's a normalize risk at this point no different and what it’s been in the past.
Okay.
And then could you clarify if there is any I mean if there was a substantial recall cost coming you would have accretive for these results or? That is correct.
Okay okay.
Any color if you look at seating you substantially outperformed in both North America Europe I would assume pick up’s that something to do with the North America outperformance.
Any color on Europe why the 12% came well above market what were the key drivers of that positive mix? Well Europe is benefiting from a volume recovery albeit still below historical peaks we're seeing a nice recovery there.
And I think our business there is strong and that it's a nice ration of luxury and high-end vehicles as well as [AMD] entry level vehicles.
So I think we're very well diversified there.
I also think a key driver to the margin recoveries all the efforts we have put into restructure that business over the last several years and try adjust capacity and improve our cost structure.
So the team in Europe has done a really nice job we still have some work to do there but all in all I think it’s a combination of both.
So I guess I was getting out of the Europe I think was up just 2 but now it’s around 12 so what were the key sort of major platforms help drive that huge outperformance or is it all just new business?  It’s backlog and FX foreign exchange and backlog.
Euro stronger on a year-over-year basis we had a nice backlog there.
And I think from a platform standpoint we are on some of the best platforms that are selling over there whether it’s three series C Class the Audis Jag Landrover of a small base but they are doing outstanding in the marketplace and we are the basic exclusive seat provider.
Okay.
And when we look at the Seating margins they were down slightly despite that very large sales gain.
Can you remind us of the big factors I mean is this really South America or is it really an issue this time last year and the components in North America were not issues is that the reason why we didn’t…  There is really thousands of puts and takes but probably if I put it down to just one major factor I would tell you it’s the change over our portfolio.
We are going through over the last I want to say a year and half probably change over that impacts 40% 50% of our portfolio in seating.
And when you change over it’s not just the launch cost it’s also new programs typically come on at a lower margins than the programs that replaced for several reasons.
One you don’t have years of experience and the efficiencies and the design improvements that you need to kind of get it at low as possible cost.
The second side of it is a lot of these programs went through a competitive bid process which puts pressure on the margins as well.
So that's probably one of the key drivers on the margins.
Okay.
And just one last question I noticed when you raised your guidance the restructuring was also raised.
And so what are the big restructuring actions coming on I mean is that all focused on South America and the North America component? No it’s those two but it's as much as anything Europe as we continue to look for ways to improve our cost structure in Europe.
So Europe drives as well.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Our final question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
I want to as usual from a talk about the electrical business kind of few more strategic questions.
In 2010 electrical was 15% of your core operating earnings this quarter it was 42%.
Has there been an evolution similarly in the way you spend time on it at the corporate level where it is in terms of allocating R&amp;D capital expenditure budget acquisition targets.
So you have really kind of a two pillar business as opposed to your seating with an electrical side kind of how is that evolved? Even when it was smaller several years ago I think we spent quite frankly as much time on that business and maybe even a little bit more on it to try to get it to this level.
If you look at all investments whether it's seating or electrical on a same type of gating which is again is return on investment.
Even when we were struggling in this business back in ‘08 ‘09 we continued to invest in product development and a lot of those products today are paying dividends whether it's connectors or junction boxes or the high power.
So I would tell you that we don't necessarily spend our time based on revenue; in certain cases smaller revenue and smaller profit require more intensity.
As far as more capital investment we'll invest where we get the greatest returns and where we think we can provide most value for our shareholders as opposed to percentage of revenue.
Okay.
And sort of if you think about some of those investments and then I guess couple of questions very roughly what your split of businesses between those categories of harnesses connectors and then high power inverters converters? Secondly how do you see that evolving sort of over a five year period especially as OEMs begin especially in Europe to add 48 volt systems plug in hybrids advanced start-stop; do you think that will change? And three back to the M&amp;A question are there tuck-ins that would be helpful to get you to that kind of end of decade where there is greater electrification of power trains?  Well it’s a big question.
Let me break it down a little bit.
On the breakdown it's roughly 60% of wire harnesses; the rest is split fairly evenly between boxes and [Ts and Cs].
In many cases [Ts and Cs] and boxes are converging in that.
Some could argue that a box is nothing more than an educated connector.
But that's kind of converging there.
The car is becoming a rolling platform.
There is no doubt our smart device our rolling smart device.
And it also is using a lot of the features that you mentioned like start-stop to improve the fuel economy and cafe standards.
And from that standpoint that’s improving the signals.
That is what’s driving I think the overall content increase of three plus percent because it’s being balanced also with that the growth in the industry is coming many times from AMV platforms that don’t have really high electrical content.
So when you balance that all up we’re really comparable at this point with a type of 3% content growth per year on the overall industry.
In certain segments that content growth is much higher and much more mature platforms or sophisticated vehicles or luxury segments you’re going to see a content growth that’s even higher than that.
As far as hybrid and alternative energy vehicles there is some estimates that put that penetration as high as 10%.
We’re not planning on that.
We think it will be much lower than that.
However it’s still a bit of a wildcard when you look at the Asian market and specifically China on whether or not they demand some level of alternative energy vehicles.
And we’re working with some of our Chinese customers to get position in that market in the event that does happen and end up being higher than what we’re planning.
Okay.
And is there any sort of where are you on the 48 volt issue would that be some of the European suppliers we’re talking to OEMs see a future for that sort of mid decade later in the decade for Europe? It’s a possibility and we have capabilities there.
We actually think that that won’t be as greater penetration as others; we think that the basic architecture over the next five years will stay relatively the same.
I think the real gains will be coming into wire gauge and the type of material the wire is made out of aluminum clad or what have you.
So we don’t really see a major change in the architecture quite frankly.
Okay.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
We have no further questions on the line.
I would now like to turn call back over to the presenters.
Great.
I guess only people left on the line are Lear employees and I want to sincerely thank them for all their hard work because results like this just don't happen by luck it come from very hard work and team work.
We still have a lot of work to do it was a great quarter or we have to continue to get better.
So from the senior leadership team I want to thank all of you and tell you enjoy the rest of the afternoon but let's get busy.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ed Lowenfeld you may begin your conference.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website at ir.lear.com.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Matt Simoncini will provide a company update then Jeff Vanneste will cover our financial results and outlook and Matt will return with some wrap-up comments.
Following the formal presentation we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 4 and I'll hand it over to Matt.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
We continued our positive momentum with record results in the third quarter.
Sales increased 8% to $4.2 billion from a year ago which is almost 3x the increase in global production.
Core operating earnings were up 22% to $251 million our ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year earnings improvement.
Adjusted net income was up 32% and earnings per share increased 33%.
Both our business segments reported higher sales and margins.
We also continue to return cash to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $119 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Based on our strong performance we are increasing our 2014 outlook which Jeff will discuss in more details a little later in the presentation.
During the quarter we also announced an agreement to acquire Eagle Ottawa which I'll describe in more detail in the next slide.
Slide 5 provides a profile of Eagle Ottawa.
Eagle Ottawa is the world's largest supplier of automotive leather with a low-cost manufacturing footprint and annual revenues of approximately $1 billion.
The company has an experienced management team modern facilities the latest technology and a reputation for superior quality product innovation and craftsmanship.
The company has an industry-leading position in North America and Asia and is one of the top leather suppliers in Europe.
Eagle Ottawa has a balanced customer mix serving virtually every major automaker in the world.
No single customer represents more than 20% of their sales and no single vehicle platform accounts for more than 6% of sales.
Slide 6 summarizes the Eagle Ottawa transaction.
The purchase price is $850 million and we expect the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2015 following regulatory approvals.
Excluding synergies the valuation multiple is approximately 6x the 2015 EBITDA.
We expect the transaction to be accretive by approximately 5% to earnings per share excluding synergies in the first 12 months following the closing.
The 5% EPS accretion assumes Lear finances 100% of the purchase price and incremental depreciation and amortization of approximately $25 million to $30 million related to the purchase accounting adjustments.
We have identified annual synergies of approximately $20 million which we expect to achieve within 24 months of closing.
We also expect incremental sales growth as we combine the 2 businesses and build on both companies' strengths.
The acquisition is consistent with our strategy of investing in our business and returning cash to shareholders.
The Eagle Ottawa transaction will not impact our ongoing share repurchase program.
Slide 7 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased slightly more than 1 million shares of stock for a total of $103 million.
Since initiating the share repurchase program early 2011 we have repurchased 29.3 million shares for a total of $1.8 billion.
This represents a reduction of approximately 28% of our shares outstanding at the time we began the program.
The average stock paid to repurchase shares over the life of the program is approximately $60 per share.
At the end of the third quarter we have a remaining share repurchase authorization of $491 million which expires in April of 2016.
This represents approximately 7% of our current market capitalization.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jeff who'll take you through our financial results and outlook.
Thanks Matt.
Slide 9 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the third quarter.
In the quarter 20.4 million vehicles were produced globally up 3% from 2013.
Our major markets showed increases led by China and North America which were up 10% and 8% respectively.
Production in Europe was up 1% and industry production in Brazil declined 17%.
Slide 10 shows our financial results for the third quarter.
As Matt mentioned our sales which were up 8% continue to grow faster than the overall market.
The increase in sales in the quarter primarily reflects the addition of new business and increased production on key Lear platforms.
In the third quarter pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $225 million up $32 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $16 million in the third quarter down $2 million primarily reflecting interest savings related to the refinancing of our 2018 and 2020 notes.
Other expense was $11 million in the third quarter down $6 million primarily reflecting a gain of $5 million related to a transaction with an affiliate.
Net income attributable to Lear was $140 million in the third quarter up $27 million.
Slide 11 shows the impact of nonoperating items on our third quarter results.
During the third quarter we incurred $21 million of restructuring costs primarily related to capacity reductions in Europe and various census-related actions.
Excluding the impact of restructuring costs and other special items we had core operating earnings of $251 million up $45 million from 2013.
This represents the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year earnings improvement.
Adjusted for restructuring and other special items net income attributable to Lear in the third quarter was $157 million and diluted earnings per share was up 33% to $1.93 per share.
Slide 12 shows our third quarter adjusted margins.
Total company adjusted margins were 5.9% up 60 basis points from a year ago and a record for the third quarter.
Sales and margins increased in both business segments.
In Seating sales of $3.2 billion were up 10% from last year with adjusted earnings of $176 million up $21 million or 14%.
The increase in sales was driven primarily by the addition of new business and improved production on key Lear platforms.
Adjusted margins were 5.5% up 10 basis points from a year ago.
The increase in earnings from a year ago primarily reflects strong sales growth favorable operating performance and the benefit of operational restructuring.
Our full year margin outlook for Seating remains in the 5.5% to 6% range.
In Electrical our positive momentum continued into the third quarter with record margins.
Adjusted margins were 13.3% up 240 basis points from a year ago primarily reflecting favorable operating performance and the benefit of operational restructuring.
Given the strong year-to-date performance we expect full year margins in our Electrical segment to be approximately 12.5%.
Slide 13 provides a summary of free cash flow which was $145 million in the third quarter.
Slide 14 highlights the key assumptions in our 2014 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in each of our major markets.
Global production of 85.5 million units is generally consistent with our prior guidance.
Compared to 2013 vehicle production in China North America and Europe is expected to be up 9% 5% and 3% respectively.
Our 2014 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.33 per euro down 3% from our prior outlook.
This implies an average exchange rate of $1.26 per euro for the fourth quarter.
Slide 15 summarizes our 2014 outlook.
Based on our continued strong performance this year we are increasing our full year guidance.
For 2014 Lear expects net sales of approximately $17.7 billion consistent with our prior guidance despite a weaker euro assumption.
Core operating earnings are forecasted to be in the range of $1.01 billion to $1.04 billion with a $25 million increase in guidance reflecting improved operating performance and increased margins in our Electrical business.
Tax expense is estimated to be in the range of $270 million to $285 million.
Adjusted net income attributable to Lear is forecasted in the range of $640 million to $655 million.
Pretax operational restructuring costs are expected to be approximately $100 million up $10 million from our prior outlook reflecting plant consolidations and other census-related actions.
Free cash flow for 2014 is forecasted to be approximately $450 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Matt for some closing comments.
All right.
Great job Jeff.
We had our best third quarter ever.
We continue to set new sales and earnings records in both our business units contributed with the improved results from a year ago.
We're very excited about the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and we expect it will further improve our Seating business.
It enhances our ability to serve our customers will improve our design capabilities enhance our craftsmanship and quality and ultimately allow us to provide a lower-cost higher-quality product.
We continue to invest in the business and we continue to return cash to shareholders.
With that we would be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on Slide 6 on Eagle Ottawa Matt.
I mean you mentioned that there'd be some stepped-up D&amp;A for purchase price accounting of I think $25 million to $30 million.
Is that encompassed in your expectation for 5% accretion? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's obviously pre-synergies? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we think about Eagle Ottawa what percent is coming through Lear right now? And what percent goes through your competition? Yes the intercompany sales Jeff that we talked about I want to say was...
They're about $150 million of intercompany sales right now of the billion-ish annual sales in total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the majority is going through other seating suppliers at this point? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second on the EPMS margin increase I mean what are you seeing there? Is that something that's sort of a short-term benefit from mix? Are we looking at some real structural shifts here which are going to allow you to earn these higher-margin structure looking forward? There was the benefit of a little bit of timing on a commercial resolution that was a pull ahead from the fourth quarter John.
Probably I don't know a couple bps a couple of tenths 20 basis points.
The business is running in that high 12% to 13% range right now so we think it's sustainable in that 12.5% to 13% margin rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly you guys are certainly not shy about buying back stock so that's a good thing.
But given the recent pullback in the stock do you see an opportunity to potentially get more aggressive and use the strength of your cash flow and balance sheet to buy back even more and maybe get a higher authorization on what you have outstanding right now? Well we continue to believe the business is strong.
We see the -- we haven't seen anything in the releases or the outlook that would tell us otherwise.
Both business units are continuing to perform.
We continue to believe our shares are undervalued and the outlook for the business is good.
We said publicly that we want to base our share repurchase on the market conditions and be opportunistic and I think those all imply for a pretty good pace of buyback.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> On the Electrical side can you talk a little bit about what your longer-term margin expectations are for that? Because that -- it sounded like based on your comments to John that it seems like you're thinking that they might be higher.
I think in the past you've kind of talked about them being kind of that 10.5% to 11% range.
You're maybe a little reluctant to go too high because you want to be able to have the opportunity to take on some 10% business because I think that's good return on invested capital business for you guys.
How are you thinking about your longer-term margins in the Electrical business at this point? I think you're right Brett as far as the market conditions on the product it's good business for us when it starts in the high single digit margins.
We have a nice gap to our cost of capital and returning in excess of our cost of capital.
We think this business can run in about 12.5% and still kind of grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there anything in your backlog that disrupts that? It doesn't sound like you have anything at this point in time that really is going to weigh on that contribution margin that you've been seeing.
Is that a fair statement? That is a fair statement.
I think the backlog would support kind of a run rate in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Eagle Ottawa you talked a little bit about some -- it sounded like some possible revenue synergies.
And I know that in talking with some clients there's -- as we kind of think about the fact that a lot of that goes up through your competitors they've been concerned that maybe some of your competitors might buy less from them or something along those lines for various competitive reasons or something.
But it sounds like you think there's an opportunity to actually sell more.
Can you kind of talk a little bit about that? Oh I absolutely think there's an opportunity to sell more.
Leather is directed by the car companies much like fabric and we have a real case experience with our acquisition of Guilford.
So to me it comes down to having the best product the best quality which Eagle Ottawa does and so it's really a car company decision.
And in our industry it's not uncommon to have buy-sell relationships with your competitors as car companies -- direct sourcing components.
So I think it's a very very minor modest risk and I think it's outweighed by the capabilities of combining world-class design capabilities in leather with world-class design capabilities in fabric and world-class design capabilities in seating and to come up with unique designs that can personalize vehicles and also take cost out.
So I think those will override any desire to de-source.
Research Division</strong> That makes perfect sense.
And then finally just very quickly European production you did not change your guidance but there's a lot of concern on The Street that Western European production in particular is likely to see some headwinds maybe be reduced.
But it doesn't sound like based on your guidance you're seeing any changes there.
Yes I think...
Yes I'm going to throw you over to Jeff in a second.
He'll give you the exact numbers that we're basing our guidance on from a production standpoint Brett but you are correct.
I will tell you that we have not seen any meaningful reduction in releases with basically 7 more weeks of production scheduled before the holiday shutdown.
So from our standpoint Europe has been pretty stable other than probably Russia but the rest of the market looks stable.
Yes I think I agree with that.
Kind of -- we've not seen anything from the customers via the shorter-term releases to suggest that there's any headwinds there.
Our assumptions with respect to our guidance are that on an annual basis sales will -- production rather will be up by 3%.
If you look at the individual quarters we were up about 1% in the third quarter and we'll be flat on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter.
But on a full year basis up roughly 3% and I think the projections over the next couple of years would be growth in that segment 2% to 3%.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have a strategic question on Electrical then just a housekeeping question.
When you're talking about 12.5% 13% margins would you describe it as a combination of things that you're doing? Are you getting to -- is it just throughput through your lower-cost capacity? Are you actually seeing better pricing out in the market? And is capacity overall for the wiring harness industry maybe a bit tighter than it was? And then what's just kind of value-added product in engineering and some of the end-of-the-wire things we have discussed on prior calls? Yes it's a great question.
Really it's driven by 2 things Brian.
First and foremost you have to have the design capabilities to be able to deliver the lowest-cost architecture of the vehicle.
And that really is driven by knowledge of the entire kind of circuit meaning including junction boxes and the way to route signals in the most efficient manner which allows you to reduce the per-circuit cost by reducing the circuits.
We have some great technology connectors which allow us to use thinner gauge wire.
And that coupled with our historically industry-leading junction box capabilities things like solid-state junction box which reduces or eliminates fuses at a vehicle really allows you to have a low-cost design.
That's the starting point.
The other piece of this is definitely the manufacturing footprint which we've invested upwards of $0.5 billion over the last 6 7 years to get our footprint correct in that segment and you're starting to see the dividends of that.
Now those 2 things just coupled with our sales growth is allowing us to run these component facilities at much more efficient levels as we put more product through it.
So I think it's a combination of factors starting with design followed by footprint and then volume always helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And within that does that imply that CapEx as a percent of sales ought to be coming down going forward in that segment? CapEx really is a function of backlog as much as anything.
We have invested in the emerging market footprint.
Right now mid-2.5% is about right and we'll take that all day long.
It's because the type of returns we're getting for that investment has been outstanding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like on the revenue line maybe we shouldn't get carried -- too much carried away with revenue growth there because some of the things you're doing for customers is making up helping them reduce the miles of wires in a car and then making it up in the margin for your design expertise.
Yes.
I don't think that's as much as a factor as just the amount of penetration that we've had and the cadence of sourcing.
This segment has grown incredibly over the last 3 or 4 years.
So to keep that pace is somewhat unrealistic especially in light of the cadence of sourcing in the industry.
The other headwind is we have a big portion of this unit probably from a percentage standpoint is in Europe and that's facing some headwinds with the euro exchange rate against the dollar.
I don't think it's so much is the design efficiencies because cars -- it's being offset by cars are becoming more complicated and requiring more content.
So while you're designing efficiencies in the system the cars are becoming much more connected much more complicated all of which requires more signals to be managed.
And so we're seeing a growth rate in the components on about 5% and that's kind of offsetting some of the efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> Great which gets to the housekeeping question.
Between your 2 segments can you kind of remind us of the revenue and directionally the EBIT exposure to Europe so we have the right currency in mind as we think through the next year? The exposure that we have with the fluctuations in the euro specifically are for every penny change in the euro on an annual basis it affects our sales by about $48 million to $50 million and then whatever the translation of the earnings are with those specific programs that are affected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And segment-wise any difference? Not materially no.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I was hoping that you might be able to just give us some -- just some insight into the moving parts within Seating.
Revenue was up almost $300 million.
Earnings were up $21 million.
I would imagine that South America was a headwind that $800 million business structure is probably a tailwind.
What is happening within that? And just remind us of what's the bridge from this 5.5% 6% margin level that you're at to the 7% target? What needs to happen to get to that level? Yes.
You're right Rod.
There's a lot of moving parts.
And while we made an improvement in South America specifically in Brazil it continues -- we continue to struggle now facing additional headwinds on volume.
And I think you know our customers are struggling there as well.
So that's going to take more time to get it to return to profitability and our guidance does not assume that happens this year.
We made a nice improvement in North America metals and would expect that to continue as we kind of burn through and digest the phenomenal growth that that segment has had and we expect that performance to continue into next year.
Going into next year part of the road map into returning into target margins in this segment of 6.5% to 7% we would need a few things.
One we need a solution to South America.
That business doesn't need to necessarily go back to target margins themselves but we need to return to profitability.
And that's going to take working with our customers looking at the footprint possibly even giving certain programs back that may make more sense for somebody else to do as they look to synergize reduced capacity.
We need Europe to continue to recover and we need to work through the evolution of the portfolio start implementing some value engineering changes.
So we'd expect the trend of performance improvement to continue in Seating make a nice step improvement in the fourth quarter and continue that into next year.
Research Division</strong> The time frame for getting to 6.5% to 7% is 2 years? Or what -- do you have a time frame in mind? I believe next year we'll make a nice step into the low 6s Rod and then I think we'll continue in -- with that improvement into the following years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just you've given us a little bit -- little pieces of this.
But in Electrical kind of similar you had a $26 million improvement in earnings but in this case it was on $18 million improvement in revenue.
So did you mention that there was a sort of a one-timer in there and that there were also some cost reductions that drove part of that? Yes.
What I mentioned a little bit earlier in the call Rod was net there's always a litany of different adjustments that go through.
The quarter was relatively clean.
There was some timing issue on commercial resolutions in the third quarter that we were expecting in the fourth quarter.
That benefited the segment net by about 20 basis points.
If you subtract that the rest of it's just performance benefits of restructuring the mix of the products we were selling.
Research Division</strong> What's the typical seasonality in that business just going forward? That -- it had been sort of on upward trajectory through last year back half stronger than the first half.
On average I would say both segments typically are similar.
This quarter was a little bit different from a mix.
Electrical has less exposure to Brazil which was a falling market and Russia which was a falling market India which had some difficulties in the quarter.
So this quarter was a little bit different than we normally see.
But on average you're going to see the same type of seasonality between the 2 businesses.
I don't think there's a whole lot different.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So your press release referenced market share gains.
Is that primarily in Seating versus Electrical? Was it both? And can you characterize the competitive environment in the Seating space right now? Yes it was in both.
We're continuing to win business in both segments and gain share.
The competitive environment in Seating is difficult.
It requires you to be the low-cost producer and have the right footprint and capabilities and components.
Our customers sell a price-sensitive product and it requires suppliers to figure out ways to reduce their cost.
And we've been able to do that through our footprint action and our capabilities and all the components that make up a seat as well as our design capabilities.
But it's a tough environment but it really hasn't changed.
That's been pretty constant Ravi.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But on specifically the JCI do you feel like they have decided what side of the fence they want to be on with Seating? And have you seen any pickup in share there? Well not to speak specifically of Johnson's you probably know more about what's going on there quite frankly than I do.
But I will tell you this.
In our business that takes 3 years prior to start-up production and then production runs for 5 to 7 years so you're looking at anywhere from 8 to 10 years of -- from time of award that you're going to be producing a product who is going to own your business and whether or not you're going to be able to continue to invest in the business is a big question that you need to answer when you're being sourced.
So if there is uncertainty in the ownership I think that doesn't work for you.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just switching to Europe you guys have grown CPV in Europe by double digits for 4 quarters now and close to double digits for 3 more quarters before that.
Can you just give us more color on what's driving that and where that trend goes? Yes.
The good news in Europe for us is that we're well represented by all the customers and we're well represented by the various vehicle segments.
So we serve fairly evenly both the entry-level vehicles and also the high-end vehicles.
On the high-end vehicles what we're seeing is buoyancy in the export markets for certain autos that sell outside of Europe.
For instance 3 Series Audi A4 and A6 the Jag Land Rover product.
So we're on a fair bit of product to get exported.
We are seeing the high end continue to increase content.
We're seeing the low end continue to increase content.
Electrical products are benefiting from the additional complexity in features in those vehicles and that's helped us as well.
So it's just a general trend of increasing the complexity of the autos.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just finally your EPMS margins are now higher than some of your competitors that are much larger than you which is most impressive.
At the same time the Electrical space remains fairly fragmented as well.
So is there room to further expand these EPMS margins if you guys kind of maybe consolidate some of the smaller players in the space? I would say probably not.
I would say probably not.
I think that we can continue to grow and the market kind of baffles in our mix of products where we're wiring boxes and to a lesser extent connectors we're less capital-intensive than some of the larger players now.
Now there's 4 of us that can do complete electrical distribution and auto components in every automotive-producing regions in the world: Sumitomo Yazaki Delphi and us.
We are however less capital-intensive because we have a little bit higher proportion of wiring.
So from our standpoint we start returning in excess of our cost of capital at about 6%.
So if we set the margin expectations too high Ravi I'm worried that we'll turn our back on profitable growth.
So for our standpoint we think around 12.5% we can continue to grow the business make a nice return for our shareholders penetrate the market and that's good business.
So I don't think you'll see a margin expansion beyond kind of that range in the long term.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Galves with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about your leverage and your leverage targets pro forma to the Eagle Ottawa acquisition? And are you -- by saying 100% financing in the estimates is that what you've decided on? Or is that just an assumption? That's -- we have not decided on it yet but we've looked at the capital markets.
They continue to be relatively attractive to us.
Our leverage target is on a gross level about 1.5x.
If we were to fully finance the Eagle deal the resulting leverage would be about 1.2x.
So it still would be fairly well under our target leverage of 1.5x.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Appreciate it.
And then one other question on North America.
Pretty strong production growth in the quarter but Ford was down 7.5% year-on-year and I know some of the key platforms for you guys were down quite a bit.
Did that impact you in the quarter? And maybe what were the offsets? Well I think in the quarter Ford in -- specifically and I think as you look to the 2% growth in Electrical in the quarter versus the industry Electrical specifically was more impacted by some of the Ford declines on the Focus for example in North America and Europe and some other vehicles in the Ford lineup.
The Seating business wasn't as affected.
K2XX had a strong quarter year-over-year.
I think in the fourth quarter as you look at the forecasts some of the similar things are out there and that Ford volumes looking -- look to be down in the fourth quarter year-over-year as well which again I think affects us or would affect us more on the Electrical side than the Seating side.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Any color on how much the euro actually impacted your guidance for this year? And also any color on the decrementals that we should expect because aren't your margins in Europe a bit lower? So it's actually a little bit smaller than your overall margin from the conversion factor.
Is that correct? I think on a full year basis that the euro because it was stronger earlier in the year is not going to have a significant impact on the full year.
It will have in the fourth quarter as our assumption in the fourth quarter is at $1.26 euro and I think in the fourth quarter last year it was $1.36.
So it is going to have some bearing in the fourth quarter.
In terms of the impact on earnings as you look at the profile of the business in each of the segments the earnings are a little bit higher in Electrical.
So as you translate the impact of a devalued euro it's going to have a greater impact on the Electrical margins in the quarter versus Seating albeit our Electrical business is smaller than Seating in that segment -- in that region.
Research Division</strong> But when I'm thinking of Seating I always thought you were more -- you were less vertically integrated in Europe.
So your overall margin in Europe was a bit lower.
Is that...
Yes in Seating it's a little bit lower and Electrical's a little bit higher Colin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when the -- the conversion impact is not as -- the impact is smaller than your overall gross margins.
It's a little bit less of a headwind than on the sales side.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there any synergies between the Electrical and Seating business? There's a lot of chatter about potentially splitting the 2.
Is that something you'd ever consider longer term? No there's a lot of synergies between the 2 groups especially as the seat becomes much more intelligent and requires a lot more programming in it and electronics in it.
So there's starting to be more and more product synergies between the 2.
And then from a management and infrastructure standpoint there's a lot a flow of talent back and forth as you would expect.
Everything from administrative to even engineering materials management plan manager a lot of the protocols and the disciplines are very very similar between the 2 businesses because at the end of the day what we're doing is moving a complex supply and component chain to low-cost assembly with precision quality and those disciplines hold true in both segments.
We also share in many cases a regional infrastructure for sales and engineering-type offices.
So there's no plan to split them.
And if anything I think the products are starting to merge in certain cases as the seat becomes much more intelligent if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
You mentioned earlier that you're seeing progress in the North American metals business.
How far are you along? Is that finally back to the normal margin? Or is there still more margin upside? I mean so is that going to be a benefit into next year? Or is it kind of already been fixed at this point? Well it's not at the -- it is solidly profitable and it made a really nice improvement in the third quarter as they digest a lot of growth and start kind of relaying out their shop floors to be more efficient.
It's still not at the level of margin that we would expect for a business that's this capital-intensive and we do expect the performance to improve heading into next year.
So it is an opportunity to help us get to the target margins overall.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have already been asked.
So the one that's still outstanding just wanted to circle back to Eagle Ottawa.
You mentioned in your comments about a $20 million cost savings from synergies with the company.
And I'm curious to know on the face it doesn't seem like that would be an economies-of-scale thing.
Is that more of a back-office thing? Or how was it that you would achieve some cost synergies with Eagle Ottawa? Well we don't view Eagle Ottawa necessarily as a consolidation or your typical acquisition play as it relates to integrating into Lear because for us the value of Eagle Ottawa is not only their book of business and their manufacturing capabilities but it's also the senior leadership team and some very unique design capabilities.
Lear does have an existing leather business although it's very small.
It's about $100 million in annual revenue.
So the base that we're looking to grab the synergies from is relatively small.
So you're correct in that manner.
We look at the synergies coming from facility consolidation from being able to buy leather hides better and back-office transaction processing and leveraging some of our indirect buy where if we make them part of a bigger reorganization.
I think we can improve the cost structure from that regard.
Our final question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one quick point of clarification on -- when you're talked about the revenue by region for Eagle Ottawa.
That's by where the vehicle is produced not necessarily where the vehicle ends up? No that's where we sell.
That's our origin of sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So my guess is...
Which by the way is typically -- it's typically the market that the car is produced in but that's where we -- that's where it's produced.
Now where it gets -- where it may be a little bit different North America is being produced in Mexico largely and some of those cars are produced in the U.S.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You -- Matt you talked a little bit about the Seating margins as we head into '15 and I think you said low 6s.
Can you just clarify is that inclusive of Eagle Ottawa? Or is that sort of the base Seating business? And then related to that I mean in the past you've talked about over time long-term Seating margin in that 6% to 6.5% range.
I was wondering if you had any updated thoughts inclusive of Eagle Ottawa.
Right.
No it excludes -- that completely excludes Eagle Ottawa.
What we anticipate is once we do close we'll provide updated kind of range of earnings including Eagle Ottawa.
Eagle Ottawa runs at a target margin or executes a margin that's slightly higher than the target for Lear.
We'd expect it to improve margins if you do the math by maybe 20 basis points thereabouts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the last question sorry out of curiosity.
There's a supplier yesterday who mentioned some negative mix impacts in China.
It looks like at least your Asia sales were still up pretty nicely in the third quarter.
I was wondering if you saw any impact in that market there.
No no.
It's been pretty -- actually it's been pretty stable.
No we haven't seen that.
With that that concludes the call and probably who remains on the call are the Lear employees.
I want to personally thank all of you on behalf of the senior leadership team.
It's not luck that generates these type of results.
It's hard work and dedication and I want to thank you for both.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Keith and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ed Lowenfeld Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Keith.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our website at lear.com through the investor relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
First Jeff Vanneste will discuss our 2014 financial results and 2015 outlook then Matt Simoncini will provide some closing comments.
Following the formal presentation we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 5 and I'll hand it over to Jeff.
Thanks Eddie.
Lear finished 2014 strong with another quarter of higher sales core operating earnings and free cash flow.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $4.5 billion up 7% from a year ago and core operating earnings increased 35% to $280 million.
Margins were higher in both of our business segments.
In November Lear took advantage of favorable conditions in the debt market to increase liquidity and reduce our borrowing cost.
We increased and extended the maturity of our revolving line of credit and issued debt to pre-fund the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and the anticipated March 2015 redemption of our remaining 8.125% senior notes due in 2020.
For the full year sales of $17.7 billion and core operating earnings of $1.05 billion were up 9% and 25% respectively both significantly in excess of the increase in global industry production of 3%.
The significant increase in earnings per share reflects our strong operating performance.
2014 marked the fourth consecutive year of strong cash flow generation and significant return to shareholders.
Slide 6 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In the quarter 21.8 million vehicles were produced globally up 1% from 2013.
Production increases in China and North America offset by lower production in Japan Brazil and Russia.
For the full year global vehicle production was a record 85.6 million units up 3% from 2013.
Our major market showed increases with China North America and Europe up 9% 5% and 3% respectively.
Slide 7 shows our reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2014.
In the fourth quarter pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $257 million up $88 million from a year ago.
For the full year pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $929 million up $193 million from 2013.
Equity income was $7 million in the fourth quarter.
Excluding a non-recurring item at one of our joint ventures in 2014 equity income increased by $1 million as compared to a year ago.
For the full year Equity income was $36 million.
Excluding the non-recurring item equity income increased $3 million in 2014 primarily reflecting higher profitability at our joint ventures in China.
Interest expense was $20 million in the fourth quarter up $4 million primarily reflecting the impact of the $650 million bond issued in November of 2014.
Interest expense was 68 million for the full year down $1 million from 2013.
Other expense was $17 million in the fourth quarter and $74 million for the full year.
Net income attributable to Lear was $262 million in the fourth quarter and $672 million for the full year.
The fourth quarter and full year of 2014 were impacted by tax benefits primarily related to the release of valuation allowances in several foreign subsidiaries.
Slide 8 shows the impact of non-operating items on our fourth quarter results.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $24 million of restructuring costs primarily related to plant closures in Europe and census-related actions.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $280 million up $72 million from 2013.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable operating performance increased production on key platforms and the benefit of new business.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items net income attributable to Lear in the fourth quarter was $183 million and diluted earnings per share was $2.27 up 46% from 2013.
Slide 9 provides a summary of free cash flow.
We generated $372 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter and $503 million for the full year.
Slide 10 provides a snapshot of our cash debt and pension and OPEB obligations.
We have a very cost-effective capital structure with minimal debt maturities for the next five years and relatively low borrowing costs.
At the end of 2014 we had cash of approximately $1.1 billion and debt of approximately $1.7 billion.
In addition to the cash shown on the balance sheet we also had $600 million in restricted cash included in other assets which was used to fund the Eagle Ottawa acquisition that closed on January 5 and will be used for the anticipated redemption in March 2015 of our 2020 notes.
Our unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities are $407 million as of the end of December which is up from a year ago reflecting a lower discount rate in 2014 partially offset by stronger asset returns.
Substantially all of the US plants are frozen or at closed locations with no future benefit accruals.
We are committed to maintain the strong and flexible balance sheet with sufficient liquidity and investment grade credit metrics.
This strong capital structure provides Lear with significant financial resources and flexibility which will allow us to invest in our business and drive profitable growth.
Slide 12 shows our industry production by major markets for 2015.
Global industry production is forecasted to grow by 2% from 85.6 million units in 2014 to 87.6 million units in 2015.
Production in China remained strong with production expected to increase by 8%.
In Europe and Africa production is expected to be flat with 2014 and our production forecast in this region is down slightly from initial guidance primarily reflecting lower production in Russia.
Production in North America is forecast to increase by 3%.
Since we provided our initial 2015 financial outlook on January 13 the euro has weakened further and as a result we are updating our guidance assumption to reflect an average Euro of $1.15.
Despite the change in the euro assumption and some changes in production forecasts in certain markets we are still comfortable with our overall financial outlook for 2015.
Slide 13 shows our 2015 outlook for adjusted margins for Lear as well as for both of our business segments.
We expect total company margins to increase to approximately 6.4% in 2015 up from 5.9% in 2014.
In Seating we expect meaningful margin improvement to the 6% to 6.5% range including the favorable impact of approximately 20 basis points from the Eagle Ottawa acquisition.
Our Electrical business is expected to continue its trend of strong operating performance.
We expect 2015 Electrical margins to be in the range of 12.5% to 13%.
Both our business segments continue to generate strong cash flow and in our present mix of business provide returns in excess of our cost of capital.
Slide 14 outlines our detailed financial outlook which is unchanged from what we announced earlier this month.
Lear expects net sales to increase to 18.5 billion to 19 billion primarily reflecting the impact of our sales backlog and the Eagle Ottawa acquisition partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange.
Core operating earnings are forecasted in the range of $1.175 billion to $1.225 billion up from 2014 reflecting primarily higher sales and improving margins.
Interest expense will increase in 2015 reflecting the new debt incurred to finance the Eagle Ottawa acquisition.
The increase in depreciation and amortization is also primarily related to Eagle Ottawa and includes the estimated impact of purchase accounting.
Our effective tax rate in 2015 is expected to be approximately 30%.
However given the benefits of our tax attributes we expect the cash tax rate to be approximately 20%.
We expect the cash tax rate to remain below the effective rate for the next several years.
Restructuring costs are expected to be approximately $80 million reflecting footprint actions as well as census related and other cost reduction actions.
Free cash flow for 2015 is forecasted to be approximately $575 million which represents a free cash flow yield of more than 7%.
Slide 15 provides a summary of our sales backlog for 2015 to 2017 with stands at $2 billion with approximately 75% in Seating and 25% in Electrical.
We expect strong growth in 2015 and 2016 with $700 million and $850 million respectively of new business coming online.
For 2017 there are still programs we are actively quoting on so we would expect that number to increase from $450 million as those new programs are awarded.
In addition to the backlog shown on the slide we have $725 million in backlog at our non-consolidated joint ventures.
Including these new business awards our total backlog would be over $2.7 billion.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great.
Nice job Jeff.
Thank you.
As you can tell from our recent financial performance our balanced strategy is working.
2014 was our fifth consecutive year of higher sales and earnings and we are projecting our sixth year of improvement in 2015.
We also continue to generate strong free cash flow.
Over the last five years we have generated over $2 billion of free cash flow.
In Seating our sales and margins are growing.
Eagle Ottawa provides customer and geographic diversity improved profitability and a platform for additional sales growth.
It will also enhance our ability to differentiate our seats by strengthening our industry-leading key design capabilities while improving overall comfort and craftsmanship of the seat.
In Electrical we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the transformation in this segment of the industry as increasing demand for features fuel efficiencies and connectivity is driving more electrical content than ever before.
The investments we made in this segment over the last several years have resulted in market share gains and improved profitability.
Slide 18 puts our sales growth into perspective.
Since 2010 Lear’s sales have grown in an annual rate of 10% per year which is more than twice as fast as the global industry production.
Both of our business segments are [outpacing] the industry growth rates reflecting the investments we made in the business and key industry trends.
Slide 19 highlights some of the major trends that are impacting the auto industry.
OEMs increasingly are utilizing global platforms and direct component sourcing.
Lear is well positioned to benefit from these trends from our low-cost global footprint and full component capabilities in both product segments.
In addition vehicles are becoming more complex with added features as consumers are demanding additional content and connectivity.
Furthermore vehicles are safer than they have ever been and advanced driver assistance systems are becoming more prevalent.
Self driving cars will require even more sophisticated electrical architectures and distribution systems.
A seat is an active part of the vehicle’s safety system.
Lear has been an industry leader in developing safety features in seating with innovations such as the active head restraint and seat structures that withstand collision impact well in excess of what is demanded by regulatory agencies.
Stricter fuel economy and lower emission requirements continue to drive electrical content growth.
We believe that these trends will continue given strict CAFÉ requirements and environmental concerns.
Traditional powertrains are requiring more signal management to achieve better fuel economy.
We also expect alternative energy vehicles to continue to penetrate the market and these vehicles will have higher electrical content.
China has become and we expect it to remain the world’s largest automotive market.
Lear has a major presence in China with 75 facilities and more than 20 000 employees and full engineering and testing capabilities.
We have joint ventures with all the leading automakers and we can take advantage of the stronger relationships to support continued growth.
As I mentioned on a previous slide our Electrical business is benefiting from transformation in the industry as consumers demand more features and connectivity.
Slide 20 shows some of the drivers that is increasing content.
Electrical content growth is increasing the complexity of every aspect of the electrical architecture as more and more signals need to be managed.
As more circuits are required to support the added content it becomes more important to reduce weight while working with new materials and developing more efficient architectures.
Connectivity requirements are growing as vehicles increase communication with cellular networks satellites with other vehicles.
In a grid vehicles are effectively becoming a smart device on wheels.
Software capabilities are becoming increasingly more important to manage the increased complexity and highly sophisticated architectures.
All these trends play to our strengths.
We are an industry-leading electrical distribution product portfolio significant experience in designing and manufacturing complex electrical architectures software expertise and a leading position in junction boxes battery chargers and alternative energy technology.
We are well positioned to take advantage of an expected 5% content growth in this segment for the foreseeable future.
Slide 21 shows Lear’s total shareholders returns as compared to our peers and the S&amp;P 500.
The strategy we have been following has improved our product capabilities our competitiveness and created value for our customers and our shareholders.
Lear’s total shareholders returns in 2014 and for the last five years exceeded those of the peer group as well as the broader market.
I continue to believe this is a great time to invest in Lear.
We have the best team in the industry a focused strategy that is delivering results strong market positions in both product segments a footprint that is second to none a well-established and growing position in China and strong financial position with a sales backlog of $2 billion.
Our 2015 outlook reflects continued sales and earnings growth in excess of the industry production with strong cash generation.
This will allow us to continue to invest in the business and return cash to shareholders.
I would be happy to take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone and congratulations.
Thank you.
So Matt maybe I will just start off where you just ended up it seems like revenue out performance has become something of a norm with Lear both in electrical and in seats if I do my math correctly I think even on your 2015 revenue guidance excluding the backlog you are looking to kind of outperform global production so as you look at the business 3 to 5 years out how do you look at the sustainable revenue growth of the entire company either in absolute terms or relative to the industry? I think we can continue to outpace the industry production in both product segments Itay because of the trends that we talked about global platforms direct component sourcing the content growth in the electrical side.
Our footprint allows us to participate in this and take shares.
As car companies are looking to have standardized suppliers under global platforms it is important that you can do the product the same way in every automotive producing region in the world.
If you look at Lear in Seating we’re one of two independent seat providers that can do that with all the components.
I mean in Electrical we are one of four.
So I think it plays into our strength.
I think that car companies want to know that a company is committed to being in the business when they are sourcing a program that might be 3 to 5 to 8 years from the time of award and I think that plays to Lear’s strength as well.
So I think this strength continues for the foreseeable future.
Great and just on the electrical margins I think now two consecutive quarters north of 13% maybe you can update on kind of the moving pieces into 2015 what could cause you to be at the 12.5% area versus the 13% in your range or maybe potentially even higher? Probably the biggest thing Itay is always the mix of the products that you’re on each one has its kind of own financial footprint.
It’s important to note in this business segment when we perform in excess of 6.5% to 7% we have returns well in excess of our cost to capital.
So the business continues to perform well if we get the right mix and are able to get the efficiencies that we’re driving for in our facilities you’ll see the higher end of the earnings margin range if the mix holds.
If we get a little bit weaker in some of our key platforms and you’ll see a little bit south of the margin range but overall we’re very happy with the progress that the team is making in its segment would expect the performance to continue and we think at a 12.5% to 13% range we can continue to penetrate and gain some pretty good business.
Great.
And just lastly quickly any updates on commodity costs and how that might be impacting you in 2015 are you seeing any tailwinds there and maybe remind us of what the pass-through and lags might be and that’s all I have? [Indiscernible] now are providing somewhat of an offset to what we’re seeing in the Euro and if they remain at this level both copper steel and petroleum petroleum base chemicals I think that would provide a little bit of a tailwind and a benefit.
Jeff can you take them through the actual kind of indexes.
Just to reiterate on copper we buy about 150 million pounds 160 million pounds of copper a year of which commercial agreements cover about 85% of that buy.
So our risk there is about 20 million pounds to 25 million pounds.
And we typically buy forward on that risk and brought forward probably just slightly into the second quarter.
So we at tier point we would anticipate seeing on a year-over-year basis some tailwind with respect to where they see those prices now.
[Seals] are bigger buy for us but our risk there is slightly lower in terms of pure dollars.
Again [Seal] maybe not so much as copper is down but we should see a tailwind as it relates what [Seal’s] forecast to be right now but not as significant maybe as maybe the copper.
That’s very helpful thanks so much guys.
Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just maybe a quick follow up there your guidance didn’t change much yet you change your assumption on the euro exchange rate from a buck 20 to buck 15 or 120 115 is that really just a function of [indiscernible] being an offset or is there something else that you’re able to offset that headwind with? It was RAW John it was also some modest changes in the production of certain key car lines as IHS updated their January numbers we looked at the releases in the inventory levels.
So there was a few other things with the performance in the fourth quarter in certain cases we think is very sustainable heading into the year.
So we took it on the consideration and we’re comfortable very comfortable with the guidance.
Okay.
And Jeff I mean you guys have been very proactive and Matt as well on capital markets activities in front of transactions and maturities that would be advantageous to take out just curious if there is anything else you see on the horizon in the near term or the long term that are going in the capital markets which might provide opportunity to really setup for the long term? I think with respect to what we’ve done let’s say in the past couple of years in terms of enhancing liquidity we’re at point right now where I think we’re comfortable with our current liquidity.
We upped the revolver couple of months ago we prefunded Eagle.
We had secured some financing to take some bonds that for financing perspective made a lot of sense.
There is no bonds in our current future that at least makes sense to take out given the length of time between then and now and because the rate structure on those current bond.
So I think we’re pretty well set absent some acquisitions and we’ve to take a look at those individually but I think from a financing perspective we’re pretty set for a while.
Okay.
And then if we think about more region that you guys have been executing incredibly well across the business grades some great upside surprises and a lot of that is Micro it’s not just a function of volumes is there anything I’m thinking way down the line here is there anything that you’re doing in your operations that will help you when we eventually see a downturn and I’m not trying to portend this happening in the next year or two that’s way down the line.
But just trying to understand about your flexibility of volumes start turning in the other direction particularly in North America because that’s a big concern we hear from investors? First of all [indiscernible] starts with the footprint and making sure that your component capacity is in low cost and lower cost regions and components and that you’re making sure that you’re not adding excess capacity.
If there is a pullback we’ll take advantage of consolidating into the lowest cost facilities.
First and foremost it’s always there secondly it’s to have a plan a contingency plan and we always have that and we’re always looking at our cost structure this cost structure our variable cost structure look for opportunities where and you bet there was a pullback that we could move very quickly and I would tell you that it’s been a hallmark in a staple of Lear to perform extremely well in tough times and I would expect that to continue in the event we did see a market correction.
As with our balance sheet and the flexibility that we have with the work that the team has done to increase our flexibility and our liquidity we could take advantage of a downturn to maybe consolidate some very good assets at a reasonable price.
Yes it sounds like great stuff.
And then just lastly as you push more into electronics I was just curious about the asset intensity there and if you get bigger and gain even more scale overtime will be asset intensity decline and will returns increase to levels it might higher than what you’re at right now or have been historically? Well I think obviously higher in terms of the asset intensity businesses are upfront and investment businesses demand higher returns.
With our business we’ve a nice balance right now between electrical distribution which is a lower asset intensity and then maybe boxes or terminals connectors.
So I think we’re really happy with the margin profile if we had if we expand it something that’s more capital intensive or engineering intensive would expect to get the increase of returns.
Right now we really don’t see anything at this point on that horizon we think the mix will continue we’re very comfortable playing in the electrical distribution and signal managing space.
I think our software capabilities on the junction box plays extremely well to managing the signals.
So I don’t really see a dramatic change in the asset intensity John but if it became more intense then we probably have to revise our margin profile higher.
Okay great thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Oh yes good morning thanks for taking my question.
Really just two on seating first is I know this has been more but with your other major global competitor still seeing a fairly cautious amount of content growth i.e.
lack of content growth is there sort of pairing back the contracts they’re going after how much is this an opportunity for you and is it something that you’re seeing in your backlog as tailwind both in terms of content profitability? And then I guess I’ll just ask the second question is just on how you see the landscape for seating between jet and sort of assembly business versus vertically integrated how is the industry moving and what are the profit implications for you guys of that? Okay.
Starting with the competitive landscape with the uncertainty of the players in the space if you will it provides an opportunity it’s hard to quantify what it is still other bumps out there that are able to take on some of the programs so it’s a very competitive space as you would expect.
But when there is uncertainty as far as ownership and whose is going to have a company and the financial viability on programs that are sourced three years before start of production and run typically five to seven years after that it is the concern with the automakers to know who is going to be owning a company that's ultimately going to be doing the production and if all things are equal then it’s obviously a deciding factor.
As far as the breakdown between and the evolution of the seating business I would tell you that they are looking more and more at the business from a breakdown of assembly separately from the component sourcing to direct component sourcing and what it means is you really need to be the leader in each of the key components.
You need to have the core competency in all the components because that ultimately helps to design the best seats in the world and it also allows you to provide a certain level of comfort and craftsmanship with the customers’ expat.
The seat business unjust in time assembly itself is actually pretty asset like and the margin profiles are little bit lower because of that and it's still very good business even when it's in the low to mid single digit margins because of the returns that typically come through out of program.
When you are cutting and selling a seat cover it's fairly similar assets intensity it is just in time assembly and that would require a lower margin.
The flip side is the foam and the structures business and it would clatters in the tracks that they need – they demand a higher margin.
For us we take that all into consideration when we are cloning.
We think the seat business is an outstanding business continuing to grow.
Seats are getting more and more content to becoming smart if you will.
People touch feel the seat when they come in it's a key decision maker or assistant decision making to buy a car and then in the end it's also a safety product as you strap to it.
So we like the segment we like the seating we like the components.
We are going to continue to invest in it and I think we are going to continue to post really nice returns for our shareholders.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
I appreciate the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Jeff maybe just on FX is there or would there be any transactional impact I guess I’m specifically thinking in the electronics business maybe where some of that stuff is shipped a little bit more.
Yes we operate in a number of different currency pairs in Euro and others and we have hedges in place that reflects the mitigation of a good portion of that risk but there is always some transactional exposure that you will have.
We do a pretty good job I think of trying to mitigate that with the various hedges we have.
Okay great.
And then Matt I guess I am just wondering if you could update us on some of the progress in South America where I think you showed some progress through the year.
I want to get an update there especially concerning the environment down there? Yes it's a tough environment that's for sure I mean we have seen production decreases in the Brazilian market and the South American market overall.
So with the currency devaluation wage inflation of production increases it's a really tough environment not just for us but for our customers which ultimately makes some of the commercial remedies that we see harder and harder to get.
We expect 2015 to continue to lose money in South America and that's been taken into consideration in our guidance although we expect the losses to narrow.
The good news for 2014 is while we continue to lose money in the fourth quarter we are able to hold the losses tossed and even with a significantly lower sales base.
So we are taking appropriate actions to restructure our footprint.
In the meanwhile some of our product and program portfolio is changing over and we think that will help with the profitability but we don't expect it to be profitable in 2015 in our guidance but we are making progress in what is a very very challenging market.
Okay.
Great thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Galves from Crédit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks.
On the cash return side Q4 cash return annualized rate is higher than the free cash flow guidance for 2015 and it looks like you still have some excess liquidity above your targets.
So is there – do you have any update on kind of how the cash return should trend in 2015 relative to free cash flow and are there any other opportunities maybe in the seating business whether regionally or component wise for inorganic growth? Yes let me work in reverse.
We are pretty happy with the component capabilities that we have in seating.
I don't really see anything out there that’s all that compelling or that is needed in any way.
Of course we are always looking for chances to invest in the business opportunities to invest in the business but we are pretty happy with our capabilities in seating both from the component standpoint and geographic footprint.
On the logical side I think there is some things we can do we are actively out there looking for the right strategic fit that can enhance our ability to move signals around the vehicles that maybe improve our ability to right software help manage the quest of data that's going through the vehicle.
And our priorities always to invest in the business first and take advantage of the market opportunities from cash return to shareholders I think we have flexibility to do both right now for modeling purposes and probably model a consistent type cash return I know that the board is constantly in every meeting discussing the pace the buyback I think we have been an industry leader in returning cash to shareholders and balancing our capital structure.
I don't think anybody real early and big and our return to cash to shareholders especially when we take into consideration the dividends.
So I’d expect it to be a topic for the upcoming board meeting and I expect the pace to be meaningful.
Okay thanks that's helpful.
And then on the bum product side I appreciate the highlighting of the trends in electrical are you seeing this type of growth in forward quoting activity and I think you mentioned kind of a 5% content growth number.
How should we think about that is that what a new product has versus the product that's replacing or this that kind of an annual growth in the overall electrical content globally? Yes kind of both.
I mean it's always easier to do with the new product design again as a launch typically a new design or refresh will have additional content which will drive it but even in vehicles that are in the mist of production run they’ll typically favor higher contented vehicles in order to keep up in the competitive landscape with their competitors products.
So you see kind of a content growth in that segment in both new products and existing products on the road and we would expect that trend to continue.
Are there any good examples of a particular product you don't have to name it but what type of electrical content growth it has when it does refresh? Well I mean I will tell you what I would like to answer this way if you will.
If you can't think back to the ford focus when it originally started hitting the marketplace and the type of features and power or features that it had if you look at the modern day focus between the connectivity the driver interfaces on the infotainment system to the full power windows seats it's just an incredible amount of content growth and we are seeing that level of content growth in pretty much all the platforms.
In entry level A and B platform in emerging markets will eventually evolve into the type of content that consumers are demanding in their cars and we would expect that to continue.
Okay thanks.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Your line is open.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
You gave the backlog number its 75% seating so a bit more balance than it had been historically.
Any color on how much is assembly type business versus component business because I believe some of your competitors are talking about shifting way from the assembly and does that mean some of that may roll on at a longer term lower margin going forward if it's more assembly focused? We expect the backlog to come in around 10% incremental.
It's about the average new business 10% incremental margins from the variable standpoint.
That's kind of been the history of it.
The business is largely still I would two-thirds assembly for us.
We think the margin profile I think the backlog will help us meet our margin profile for the business segment overall.
It's been moving to the mid 60s type range of [indiscernible] so I don't really see it changing our targets in that segment at all.
Okay.
And so you said two-thirds does that consist with your? Roughly two-thirds.
Yes it's consistent with what we have.
I don't see a real change at all in the makeup of the business from assembly to component due to the backlog period.
Okay and then you highlight directed sourcing as an opportunity but is your share in components the same as your share of assembly because I thought that actually could be a risk if you are not as strong on the component side? No no I think it's about the same at this point but I think the investments that we made in the seat cover business specifically with eagle Ottawa and Gilford and some of the footprint we put down in Northern Africa and Eastern Europe and Asia and the selling of the covers gives us the competitive advantage and continue to leverage that.
That's the prime component example that I have where I think we can continue to penetrate.
I think our structures business is outstanding tracks and recliners and seat frames and we have got a really nice footprint in Asia as well as Eastern Europe to do their business and we made massive investments in Mexico.
So I think we are in pretty good shape with our component business and I think it's a huge opportunity.
Okay and just one last question.
Can you give any color on the benefit if we see a shift toward trucks given the lower gas prices obviously emerging on the seating said that that could be a pretty large opportunity? Well we like large vehicles and we like large vehicles they have three rows of seats and three rows of layered seats.
From our standpoint we think it’s an opportunity we believe those vehicles support a lifestyle that other vehicles can't quite frankly and typically if you look at three rows fully contented SUV you’re in a range of content that could approach seat alone about $2 000 worth of content and when it's clear content that converts into nice -- that would be probably higher than 10% probably goes to the 15%.
So that could be a real opportunity for us.
And that $2 000 that would compare to what on like the compact car kind of like? I think a better car might be a pickup truck.
A pickup truck seating around 1000 to 1200 type average seating depending if it's a crew cab or just a regular one row seat.
On a compact I don't know maybe $500 on average AB platform something like that.
Okay.
Alright thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi this is [Samik] here on behalf of Ryan.
Thanks for taking the question.
So just firstly wanted to touch on seating.
The year-on-year contribution margin when we look at this quarter was roughly 15% higher than what we have seen in few quarters now.
So anything to give us a sense of what has changed there this quarter and is this like a more typical execution that we should expect in the coming quarters? Well we continue to drive efficiencies in our plants digest some of the products portfolio changes that we have incurred over the last 18 months.
We are seeing improvements in our business in Europe.
We continue to restructure our business.
We continue to work with our customers at certain commercial remedies and some of the programs that may not make sense for Lear to do.
I think you take it all into consideration and we made a nice improvement in that segment and we would expect that improvement to continue into 2015.
And when you talk about the improvement going into 2015 as well are there particular can you give us more details on which particular regions will be driving that in 2015? North America and Europe mainly Asia has performed well and we expect it to continue to perform well.
We will make improvements in South America but will remain unprofitable in 2015 but we will get better as the year goes down and we see some product portfolio change over.
So there is literally thousands of inputs into that business segment as you would expect for business of that size and global reach.
We have more initiatives and efficiencies and continuous improvement than you can count.
I think just overall the business continues to run very well under what is an outstanding leadership team.
Great.
And just on the free cash flow for the full year came in quite a bit better than what you are guiding to back at the North American auto show like roughly 503 million I believe versus 450 what you are guiding to.
Were those driven by one off factor that will not repeat or is it fair to assume there is some upward pressure on your 2015 free cash flow guidance? No I think that generally there is few main items that allowed to come in higher CapEx which our guidance on CapEx was 450 we came in at 425 so there was a timing mechanism of that.
And also the improved earnings of the company we came in a little bit higher than the midpoint of the guidance and combination of those two is really what led to the cash flow being roughly $50 million higher.
Okay that makes sense.
And just lastly touching on the backlog which you disclosed at the North American auto show as well now I’m curious what the electrical mix there did seem to come in a bit on the lower side that what most people would have expected.
Just wondering if that’s more of a capital allocation strategy or it’s like available capacity for the next few years at your facilities or is this - and is there potential for that mix in electrical backlog to go up probably in the next few years? Yes there is potential for it to go up.
It’s not a capital allocation strategy it’s a business that we’re very high on and have been high on and we think has huge opportunity.
It’s more just a function of timing of business sourcing if you will if you look at what we’ve been able to do over the last four years we had a component annual growth rate of 15%.
So really it’s more of just timing of program of word as opposed to capital allocation we would expect through the upcoming year to see that number continue to increase.
Great.
Thanks for taking our question.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays your line is open.
Yes good morning.
I guess two questions.
Sort of what changed on the operating sides and to give the guidance and then second I wanted to talk strategically about the balance between JIT and components in the backlog and how Eagle Ottawa contributed maybe more component? Yes.
Really nothing has changed in the operations I mean we had a strong quarter of digesting the growth that we had in seating and launching the product to clean.
So I can’t point to one thing Brian it just overall of the business is running well we had strong results in Europe as well as Asia and North American team did a nice job I think we made some nice improvements in the structures of business in North America.
So it was just a was a clean and strong worth quarter and we would expect that to continue.
As far as the backlog Eagle added about a $100 million to the backlog over the three year period the split is as I mentioned on earlier questions about two-thirds assembly a third component business which is fairly consistent with the business overall and would expect that to continue.
I do think though that having the Eagle Ottawa the Premier automotive leather manufacture in the world as part of the Lear family we’re going long way to increase the platform for additional growth.
I would expect that business segment to grow real quickly.
And there is a pretty big step up from 15 to 16 in the seating line I mean what broadly driving that and second is there going to be CapEx or expenses we need to think about the launch that higher volume of business? It’s really just timing of business awards we’ve had a nice run of business wins we’re continuing to penetrate the market we’ve had a nice book of business with Audi we’ve taken on Renegade in Asia we’ve got proceeding program and a jeep in North America and these are business takeaways for us.
As far as the CapEx we’re pretty comfortable with the CapEx run rate as a percentage of sales I don’t see a dramatic change at all in any way and the amount of CapEx required to sustain this backlog Jeff had been running the 2.5%.
Yes I think we came in 14 obviously we’re talking on the timing of the CapEx about 24 I think our guidance next year is about 27 driven largely by the incorporation of Eagle which has a little bit of a higher percentage of CapEx to sales.
So it will be in a 2.5% range in general.
And just final strategy you talk a lot about a major competitor in the business it appear to be taking for them Toyota recently reorganized not clear if they’re more aggressively going beyond their core customer are you seeing them buying for any of the seating business in the market that perhaps the other player is passing on or less aggressive on? Yes they’re in a marketplace obviously their strategy is to expand their sales beyond Toyota and car companies after company groups and whether or not they want to source the competitor or not.
Okay great.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
A couple just housekeeping things.
First of all I was hoping you could just confirm the effect of currency on the electrical division year-over-year at the dollar 15 Euro could it be something like $275 million or something like that? I think what we’ve said Rod in general for every penny change in the euro it has from an overall company perspective about $50 million impact of sales.
Alright but just trying to fine tune the allocation of that between the two divisions? I think we have got about half of our sales in that segment are in Europe roughly half in electrical sales are in Europe plant.
So the number as a percentage or as the ratio is more meaningful for electrical.
Yes okay.
And then also wanted just to confirm the affect of copper on the margins for the pass through if we are doing the number right it would reduce your revenue by maybe $85 million to $90 million but no impact on EBITD so that would be like 20 basis points accretive to margin does that sound right to you? Well I think in general you are right in terms of the sales line there is some delayed impact to that but the sales would go down to the extent that the selling price will go down because the cost is going down.
So sales will go down.
There will be some benefit on copper that's not related to the customer agreement for the piece that technically we are at risk for that that has a lower cost base.
So there should be some combination of sales down overall cost down that provide some margin improvement.
I guess what I am asking is just using your exposures to 150 million pound to 160 million pound in your direct exposure of 20 million pounds to 25 million pounds it looks like the pass through mechanism kind of just mathematically adds maybe 20 basis points and then the direct exposure might add like 40 basis points to your electrical margin.
So it seems like it’s pretty accretive just mathematically but you guys are guiding to flat margin.
So just maybe what I might be missing from that? It is accretive a little bit heavy on the accretion side of it but it does benefit us.
If it holds we would expect it continue to benefit us Rod through the year.
There is other things that’s going through and obviously it's not just copper it's the mix of the program the mix of wiring versus electronics and [indiscernible] engineering you need to do and the programs that you are winning pricing environment with the customer efficiencies at the plants things like that.
So we are comfortable at 12.5% to 13% margins.
If we continue to perform it will be at the higher end of the range and if we get some headwinds we will be more towards the middle or lower end.
Okay and then just switching gears on the seating business can you quantify what the rough tailwind would be from commodities on the year-over-year basis when you look at steel and resin things just as they are kind of some high level thoughts on that? Yes I mean the steel it's a little bit harder in seating just because it indirect nature of the component cost and steel is in the vast majority of our steel exposures who purchase component right but we are looking at 10 basis points at commodities when you take that into petroleum products and transportation cost into consideration it's probably about a 10.
Okay does that affect your productivity number that you have to provide back to the OEMs.
Obviously it's a pretty direct mechanism in the other division but how does that affect that? They want the commodities OEM first.
Yes I mean it comes in the play.
Obviously if your costs are going down on commodities they want to share their net benefit just like when the commodity cost go up we ask them to sharing those costs.
So it's part of the overall pricing discussion Rod.
Okay and my last one is just how should we be thinking about the restructuring that you guys took in seating and electrical in '14 it was 92 million of restructuring and seating and electrical then you guys guided the restructuring for this year.
So is that something that we should be thinking about in terms of mitigating price deflation or is that something that also we should be thinking as contributes some lift to margins into 2015? It obviously provides a benefit.
What we have been seeing is in the early days when we started restructuring we got payback typically at 2.5 years type payback low hanging fruit has been trimmed if you will Rod.
It is going to provide a benefit.
We need to continue restructure the business and as far as the terms of restructuring maybe in the bottom of the eight or top of the nine as far as footprint actions there is a couple thorny ones that we need to take care of and I do think what you are seeing is in the growth rates that we have enjoyed in both businesses yes it obviously provides a benefit when we do it.
We would expect another 24 months if you will of accelerated restructuring especially in light of some of the things we need to do to consolidate Eagle and a couple of facilities in Europe and North America and then we get back to more a normalized type $40 million $50 million range.
Okay thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Stover from SIG your line is open.
Thank you very much for taking my question.
Good quarter.
Two questions first one is on seating.
The outlook for 50 basis increase in your guidance but if I pencil my numbers right for Eagle Ottawa you had accomplished most of that with the inclusion of Eagle Ottawa so I guess am I over estimating that impact and because I assume we should also envision margin improvement on the base business? Yes I think Eagle Ottawa should add about two-tenths 20 basis points to the margin profile Matt and I think the base business is improving as well.
So we expect it to be slightly in the 6% margin profile this year.
Okay.
And then on the electrical side that business has been stronger as you guys identified you have strong top line growth really nice margin reflecting that growth and leveraging restructuring but if I look at the backlog and I think about the secular trends implying 5% content growth and if I look at just doing there will be math in the backlog it kind of implies in 2.5% to 3% per annum growth for the business excluding industry volume excluding pricing.
So how should we interpret what seems to be a slow in revenue growth and what for the first quarter and as long as I can remember you saw negative year-over-year comp in that business? Yes.
Quite the biggest problem our headwind that we are facing in that segment is the exposure to the Euro with roughly after business in Europe and I think without that you would see sales growth.
I also think it's a cadence issue where digesting the huge amount of growth that we had over the last four years on a component annual growth rate of 15% this business is little in 2010 was barely $2 billion.
So we’ve more than doubled it in a full year period.
I think it's really a cadence of program of words I do expect it to get back into more normalized growth rates that will exceed the market production growth overall.
So to me we are happy where we’re at I think the Euro is disguising some of the growth that is happening in that segment both from content and program penetration.
Just to follow on to that if we’re beaten right now in the balance of this year my guess is you probably can't add to 17 the additions will be to 18 and beyond? Yes there might be a small amount in 17 its mainly going to benefit 18 and beyond.
What we will see probably in the 17 timeframe is some of debt added content growth on existing platforms.
Okay thanks guys.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thanks and I appreciate you taking my question.
The prior question about revenue I kind of – it kind of feeds into my question and I think that this might help explain the revenue growth issue a little bit better when you look at the 17.7 billion that you did in revenue this year 700 million in new business backlog a billion in revenue from Eagle Ottawa you should be coming out at roughly 19.4 billion in annual revenue which would be quite a percentage bump up from last year but the guidance is 18.5 to 19 billion so I am assuming that with the $0.01 change in the exchange rate to 50 million in revenue that's what bringing up the difference there is that correct? Well that’s a big part of it I mean roughly $1 billion of it and there is also in this business about 2% 1.5% to 2% pricing that we work through every year with our customers I think those are the two drivers.
There is obviously mixed issues as well that come in roughly industry is much as the specific car lines but the big – you have the biggest drivers the effects that's disguising the growth if you will.
Okay great.
And then question on the electrical margin 12.8% this year we saw quarterly run rate hitting over 13% in the last couple of quarters.
Since you put the guidance at 12.5% to 13% range kind of splitting the differences as to where we are at for the full year 2014 was the reason for going slightly below on the guidance to 2014 comparison also a currency issue or if you just kind of peaked out on what electrical margin can do? No it's not really a currency issue and that the currency is going to convert at the average price.
There may be some modest impact just because of the mix in Europe we have performed fairly well.
All in all it’s the mix of the programs within it in the portfolio.
I also think if things stabilize and we are able to achieve some of the efficiency gains and monetize some of the commodity prices we’ll be higher in the range.
But all in all this is great business at 12.5% to 13% and we think with that rate we can continue penetrate the industry support our customers cost initiatives and grow the business and we are comfortable at this rate at this point.
Okay great.
Thanks again.
Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
Just a couple of follow ups.
Another way of looking at the EPMS business would be I know you guys have always been pretty focused on ROIC may be even over margins and just given these strength margins and EPMS and what the dot line has done in the last couple of quarters slowed down to the 1 to -1 range is it time to maybe kind of get off some of that margin and try and go after volume growth again or how are you guys thinking about that? Yes it’s a good question.
I don’t think it’s limiting our growth or demand for acceptable returns and returns in excess of our cost to capital I don’t think that’s necessarily the baffle and the growth rates Ravi at this point I think we are aggressive but disciplined in our approach to the market.
I’m comfortable that the backlog when you deal with the new business it’s going to provide a type of returns that our shareholders would expect us to provide at this point it has not been a reason why we have not won a program.
But is that something you got us chose to do with something you can do right? No I think one of the focus is of the organization overall is to make discipline investment decisions whether it’s restructuring capital or acquisitions or even new programs and we do keep an eye on return on investments that being said I don’t think that’s the reason why row is impacted because we demanded a fair return on our product investment.
I don’t think that’s limiting it at this point we are aggressive in the marketplace but very disciplined in our demand for acceptable returns.
Understood and just one follow up I apologize I missed this earlier but can you talk about the trajectory of seating margins through the year I mean this year you start in mid 5s and then you said you end up close to 6 and that’s exactly you did how do we think about next year? I think it will improve steadily through the year in otherwise seasonality first quarter and third quarter always is a pretty tough quarters first quarter because it’s usually a lag before the OEs really ramp up their production and also starts a new year of price downs with your customers before you have a chance necessarily to get the efficiency gain from the supply supply chain reduction.
So first quarter usually starts off a little bit tough second quarter is usually pretty good quarter based on production third quarter has the summer shutdown season especially in Europe so that’s all in for the quarter and we usually finish strong.
From our standpoint overall we expect to make improvements in the first half and continue those improvements in the second half so steady progress.
Not a whole lot different on how we handled 2014.
Very good thank you.
Welcome.
There are no questions at this time I will turn the call back over to our presenters.
Well great.
Thank you at this point is probably the Lear team I want to start by welcoming the Eagle Ottawa leadership team and the employees there to the Lear family and tell you all how very very excited we are to have you as part of our family the Lear family and for the Lear employees that are on the phone thank you very much for your hard work and dedication as I said in my email earlier today these results just don’t happen they happen when we’re focused when we make sound business decisions and we work very very hard.
So on behalf of your senior leadership team I want to thank each and every one of you I want to give a special thanks to the finance organization for their work in preparation of year end in the call.
So thank you all now let’s get back to work.
This concludes today’s conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean.
I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Lear Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Ed Lowenfeld you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our Web site lear.com through the investor relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste; Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
Following the formal presentation we'll be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 5 and I'll hand it over to Jeff.
Thanks Eddie.
Lear is off to a strong start in 2015 with higher sales and record core operating earnings.
Sales in the first quarter were $4.5 billion up 4% from a year ago.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales grew by 12%.
Core operating earnings increased 21% to $294 million the highest quarterly earnings in our history and margins were higher in both business segments.
Excluding restructuring and special items earnings per share increased by 24% to $2.28 per share.
Eagle Ottawa will further strengthen our industry-leading sewing and fabric capabilities and enhance our ability to differentiate our seats with unique designs and a higher level of craftsmanship.
At the same time Eagle Ottawa will provide another platform for sales growth and product diversification.
We continue to return cash to shareholders and in the first quarter we announced increases in our existing share repurchase and dividend programs.
In recognition of the performance improvements we have made in the business S&amp;P increased our credit ratings outlook to positive during the quarter.
Slide 6 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the first quarter.
In the quarter 22.1 million vehicles were produced globally up 2% from 2014.
Our major markets all showed increases with China Europe and North America up 8% 3% and 2% respectively.
Production was mixed in other key emerging markets with India up 6% and Brazil down 15%.
Slide 7 shows our reported results for the first quarter of 2015.
Our reported sales in the quarter increased by 4% from a year ago to $4.5 billion this includes the $369 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange related primarily to a weaker Euro and Brazilian Real.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $261 million up $45 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $24 million up $8 million primarily reflecting debt incurred to finance the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
Depreciation and amortization increased by $10 million primarily reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
Net income attributable to Lear was $147 million up $25 million.
Slide 8 shows the impact of non-operating items on our first quarter results.
During the quarter we incurred $8 million of restructuring costs primarily related to a plant closure in Europe and census-related actions.
Other special items of $25 million primarily reflect one-time costs related to the Eagle Ottawa acquisition.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $294 million up $50 million from 2014.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable operating performance the benefit of new business increased production on key platforms and the Eagle Ottawa acquisition partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.
Other expense in the quarter included $14 million in costs related to the early redemption of our 2020 bonds.
Excluding the impact of one-time items other expense was up $4 million primarily reflecting losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items net income attributable to Lear was $181 million and diluted earnings per share was $2.28 up 24% from [2014] [ph].
Slide 9 shows our first quarter adjusted margins -- as well as for both business segments.
Total company adjusted margins were 6.5% up 90 basis points from a year ago and a record for the first quarter.
Margins increased in both business segments.
In seating sales of $3.5 billion were up 8% from last year with adjusted earnings of $219 million up $43 million or 24%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales increased by 16% reflecting higher production on key platforms the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa and the addition of new business.
Adjusted margins were 6.3% up 80 basis points from a year ago.
The increase in margins from a year ago primarily reflects strong sales growth and favorable operating performance.
Eagle Ottawa did not impact seating margins in the first quarter but is expected to benefit full year margins by 20 to 30 basis points.
Our full year margin outlook for seating remains in the 6% to 6.5% range.
In electrical sales of $1 billion were down 9% from last year excluding the impact of foreign exchange primarily reflecting the addition of new business.
Adjusted margins improved to 13.3% up a 100 basis points from a year ago reflecting strong operating performance and the benefit of new business.
Our full year margin outlook for electrical remains in the 12.5% to 13% range.
Slide 10 provides a summary of free cash flow.
Free cash flow was a use of $121 million in the first quarter primarily reflecting the timing of our March 28 fiscal quarter end as well as increased working capital to support our sales growth.
The early fiscal quarter end negatively impacted free cash flow as there were significant customer payments received just after quarter end.
Slide 11 provides a snapshot of our capital structure and liquidity.
At the end of the first quarter we had $748 million of cash and including our unused $1.25 billion revolver we had approximately $2 billion in liquidity.
As shown on the right side of the chart we have minimal debt maturities for the next five years and a very efficient capital structure with low borrowing costs.
We are committed to maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet with sufficient liquidity and investment grade credit metrics.
Slide 12 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
In February Lear's Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization to $1 billion.
During the first quarter we repurchased slightly more than 1 million shares for a total of $112 million.
Since initiating the share repurchase program in early 2011 we have repurchased 31.9 million shares for a total of $2 billion.
This represents a reduction of approximately 30% of our shares outstanding at the time we began the program.
The average price paid to repurchase shares over the life of the program is approximately $63.50.
At the end of the first quarter we have a remaining share repurchase authorization of $888 million which expires in December of 2017.
This represents approximately 10% of our current market capitalization.
Slide 14 highlights the key assumptions in our 2015 outlook which reflects the latest production assumptions in our major markets.
Global production of 87.3 million units is generally consistent with our prior guidance.
Our 2015 financial outlook is based on an average Euro assumption of $1.10 per Euro which is down 17% from 2014.
This implies an average exchange rate of $1.09 per Euro for the remainder of the year.
Slide 15 outlines our detailed financial outlook which is unchanged from what we announced earlier this month.
Lear expects net sales in the range of $18 billion to $18.5 billion and core operating earnings in the range of $1.175 billion to $1.225 billion.
Free cash flow for 2015 is forecasted to be approximately $575 million.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great job Jeff thank you.
As shown on Slide 17 our balanced strategy of investing in our business maintaining a strong financial position and returning cash to our shareholders is delivering superior value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Lear's share prices steadily improved over the past several years reflecting the company's strong sales and earnings growth.
Our total shareholder return for the past three years is 180% which is significantly higher than the automotive peer group as well as the broader market.
Slide 18 highlights Lear's valuation multiple.
While our recent performance has been strong and our valuation has improved Lear remains undervalued relative to the peer group.
In summary we continued our positive momentum in the first quarter with record quarterly earnings and we are on track to deliver our sixth consecutive year of higher sales and earnings per share.
As Jeff mentioned the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa will provide a platform for improved craftsmanship and additional sales growth.
Combining Eagle Ottawa's leather expertise with Lear's world-class fabric and sewing capabilities will allow us to provide highly differentiated designs for our customer while improving quality and lowering costs.
It would also provide additional sales growth as leather content continues to increase and we leverage our existing customer relationships to gain market share.
Lear is also well positioned to take advantage of major industry's trends such as global platforms increasing electrical content improved fuel efficiencies and growing consumer demands for comfort convenience and safety features.
Lear is in the strongest competitive position in our history.
We have a focused strategy that is delivering results strong market positions in both business segments a footprint that is second to none a well-established and growing business in China a strong financial position and we have the best team in the industry.
And with that now I'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Murph.
Just a first question Matt we just got back from Shanghai I know Eagle Ottawa is a great business but I was a bit surprised there were some luxury vehicles that were launching over there where Eagle Ottawa was cited as a differentiating part of the vehicle or the leather from Eagle Ottawa.
I'm just curious what kind of position Eagle Ottawa has in China specifically and is that opening more doors for share growth in China for you? We have a great position.
If we're not number one we're a close number two in leather.
It's hard to measure sometimes with the information there is not as clean as it is in North America.
Murph for us what's happening there besides the Western automakers' business growth what we're seeing is the domestic automakers trying to penetrate with their own products.
And in order to do that they're going to need to be able to provide craftsmanship at a level comparable with the Western automakers and that's providing a great opportunity for Eagle Ottawa and for Western suppliers like Lear that can deliver that type of quality.
So I think it can be a differentiator for growth and I think there's a lot of upside in that market for Eagle Ottawa.
Okay.
And then a second question I hate to call you guys out on this but your margins in the quarter for seating were sort of at the high-end what you're talking about for the full year and then your margins for electrical were actually above the high-end what you're talking about for the full year.
So is there something that you're expecting to fade through the course of the year or was there some unusual strength in the first quarter that really supported the great margins in the quarter? Well overall we had a nice mix in seating a little softness in certain areas around the globe like South America but overall it was a clean quarter John.
I would expect the performance to continue.
You know that the second quarter is usually our strongest quarter or one of our strongest quarter from a normal seasonality and cadence.
So I would tell you that I would expect the performance to improve.
It's still relatively early in the year.
We're just -- as we just closed the first quarter only in April if our assumptions on production and currency remain stable I'd expect to post numbers into high-end of the range.
Okay.
And then just lastly obviously we agree with you at current levels we'd be buyers of the stock and it sounds like you're being pretty aggressive in a market which is great.
But Matt there certainly have been some rumors of M&amp;A in the seating market and just trying to understand where -- at some point what levels would you become a seller? I mean obviously you're a buyer right now but just trying to understand if there was a big consolidator that came in sort of what levels would you consider potentially selling business at? Well as a publicly-traded company arguably we're for sale every day John and the shareholders would make a decision if there was an offer that was compelling.
I don't really see that right now.
For us we're more focused on investing in the business.
From an acquisition standpoint we're very focused on electrical and trying to improve our capabilities in software there to take advantage of what is becoming an incredibly exciting time in that segment its content is exploding.
In the seating we are pretty happy with our product capabilities.
I can't really see us making a meaningful acquisition in that space or be part of the consolidation effort.
John so it's a tough -- in some ways it's a tough question to answer but I really don't see us participating at this point.
Okay great.
Thank you very much great quarter guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli from Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone and congrats.
Thank you.
Just a question on seat revenue growth another quarter where organically ex Eagle Ottawa you are outgrowing the market really well I think Matt you mentioned some of the platform mix.
Can you maybe draw down a little bit more -- is it just that the platforms you are on are -- happen to be stronger? Or are you actually seeing better content and take rates are pushing up your revenue growth relative to the market? It's been a pretty consistent and impressive trend here.
Well it's pretty much all of it.
It's including the volume and mix the business win on a backlog and content growth.
When we speak about content growth and many times we focus on electrical because it's been so high and so fast but the reality is even seats are becoming more contented as people ask for more features and leather continues to penetrate and power continues to penetrate and we look for entry level vehicles to expand their comfort and convenience feature.
So we're benefiting from all of it including our footprint in China which is allowing us to participate in that business and gain share.
And we consistently gain share in that space and I'd expect that to continue.
So it's not one factor it's several.
The business is performing well.
We're digesting what has been a historic changeover of the portfolio where two-thirds of the portfolio has changed over the last several years.
Now we're starting to digest that digest some of the growth that we had in North American's structured business.
So it is making the steps and improving as we expected and we'd expect that improvement to continue both on a top line and the bottom line.
That's great to hear.
Is there any way -- I know it's never an easy question but when we think about post-Eagle Ottawa and some of the mix factors that are playing favorably for you roughly how you think -- how we should think about the next couple of years for seating revenue relative to industry production? Do you think you grow industry plus a few points in line? Any kind of latest thoughts there? Well we're continuing to win business in both segments but in seating as well.
The backlog would tell you alone that that's net new business and the backlog would tell you that we would gain share at a rate consistent with what we've done over the last year and the last 24 months.
I'd expect that to continue and we're continuing to win business.
I don't see any real changes and again in our backlog as opposed to how others may measure it our backlog is net new business.
So we've already factored in any roll-offs or business that's lost and it only includes business that's booked.
And so I think it's a fairly conservative estimate of where we're going to be and that would tell you that we're going to continue to gain share and add growth a few points over the industry.
Great.
And then just one quick housekeeping it looks like your D&amp;A and CapEx both ran a bit below in the quarter of what's implied for the full year guidance.
Is there anything happening there as Eagle Ottawa ramps up that would cause those to be higher the next couple of quarters? Or just any color there would be helpful.
I think it was more than anything else timing -- a little bit lower but I think it's going to pick up a little bit as we go through the rest of the year.
Not necessarily tied to anything with Eagle Ottawa it's just really a matter of timing both on the capital side and on the D&amp;A side which will follow.
Great.
And then just lastly -- and we ask this occasionally on restructuring how much is left beyond 2015 prospectively both on an expense level and maybe even on a cash level now that you are kind of integrating Eagle Ottawa and kind of moving on here? I use the baseball analogy always.
I think we're in the eighth inning.
The vast majority of the component work that needs to be moved into lower cost regions and some of the thrifting of just in time facilities have -- most of it's been done.
I would expect it to get back to more normalized type restructuring over the next couple of years down to something in the -- I don't know $50 million-a-year range.
Right now though the investments that we are making in restructuring are paying dividends both in annual performance but also in the ability to win new business which requires us to have the best foot print.
So there's a couple locations that still need to be moved if you will but overall I think you'll see it start drifting down to more normalized restructuring levels.
Terrific.
Thanks so much for the color.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Galves from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
You talked a little bit about the future opportunity from the local Chinese brands but right now those brands appear to be outperforming the foreign JVs.
Can you give us a sense of your exposure to each today and how does it impact your business if those local brands continue to outperform? I think it would be great if they continue to perform.
I mean our focus really in Asia for the most part is with the domestic automakers that have foreign partners and we serve both sides of the house if you will both the foreign brands but also the domestic brands.
I think we're one of the biggest with domestic brands quite frankly in seating and catching very quickly in electrical with our relationships with FAW and BAIC and Dongfeng and SAIC.
So we've got great relationships with all the major domestic automakers.
Our business is I would probably say about 60/40 in seating and a little bit less than that in electrical but we have great relationships and they're looking for suppliers like Lear to help them develop the domestic brands.
Whenever I'm over there and meeting with the automakers that's the topic of conversation even if it's Chang'an or Dongfeng or SAIC even.
So I would expect that trend to benefit Lear quite a bit.
Okay okay thanks.
And second question is just you've still got quite a bit of room to your liquidity and debt targets even today which would impact the seasonal low point in cash.
Can you address thoughts on where liquidity and debt will go over the next few quarters? Well I think that you're right we did feature a low I think in the first quarter which is normal and part of that's due to the timing of our fiscal quarter end.
If we look at it on a trailing 12-month basis which we put in a package we're about 1.4 gross leverage I think over time that will probably migrate down to about 1.2 times gross leverage which would give us about $400 million of additional flexibility to take on additional debt for opportunities to further invest in the business.
Assuming those possibilities are out there we would potentially utilize that liquidity to further invest in the business.
But we have no plans as of right now to do so.
Got it and just is there any commentary on discussions with Marcato Capital after you received the letter on February 3rd? We've had real positive conversation.
I haven't spoken to Mick [ph] recently but subsequent to the letter the conversations were positive.
In certain cases we agree in other cases we disagree but overall the one thing we do agree is that Lear's undervalued and that it's a great investment and that we agree with them.
We also agree with them that's it's a worldwide company.
So did that… We agree too.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask you first another question about China.
Can you just tell us what your performance was I guess in terms of revenue gross in the quarter both consolidated and not? I know we're seeing some pretty strong performances from a lot of the Western suppliers.
What was yours? Well we've grown faster in the industry.
We don't report China out specifically as a segment.
I would tell you that Asia overall has outgrown the industry and we've outgrown China from a gross rate standpoint especially in seating but also in electrical.
And that's true for both our consolidated joint ventures and our non-consolidated joint ventures.
At Lear I think it's important to note that we don't include the earnings from our non-consolidated joint ventures in our operating earnings.
We don't think that's proper.
So we exclude it.
So it's not part of the earnings flow that we're reporting when we talk about seating margins it's not included in here.
But both our non-consolidated joint ventures and our consolidated joint ventures grew faster in the market.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just in responding to your previous question about your China exposure you were saying Lear is less than 60/40 in seating.
Was that a seating versus electrical or was that… No no what I was talking about is right now our opportunities we grew originally with the Western automakers and their products that are also there.
But those relationships that were established with the foreign joint venture partners allowed us to penetrate on the domestic vehicles and what I was talking about is the relationship between domestic automakers and foreign automakers over there being 60/40 60/40 being foreign partners.
Okay.
And then one last one on the acquisition strategy so you were saying you were focused on the electrical business in particular in the building position and software.
At the same time it feels like the wiring business is still something that's quite fragmented on a global basis.
Would you also be interested in -- do you see the potential for consolidation in the industry? But also would you be interested in participating or forcing that? Yes absolutely it is somewhat fragmented.
There's the big four.
Obviously Delphi Yazaki Sumitomo and us and then there's strong regional players and then some really niche players.
We would and again everything is under the backdrop of doing it for the right valuation.
We have to make sure that it makes sense for our shareholders and we have to make sure that it makes sense for our customers but yes we would be interested in that.
Okay great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS.
Your line is open.
Oh great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Do you have any update on -- in the past you mentioned South America had been a drag in the metals business in North America.
Where are you in sort of the process in getting those back their overall margins? Yes South America and lower sales the loss was relatively flat in seating.
The operations proved to break-even in electrical.
And I think the beauty of Lear is that we are so geographically diversified that we can absorb a region when it stumbles like this in possibly in Russia and still post the type of numbers that we did.
It's a longer term play both in customer support but also in the ability to fix to restructuring and maybe working through certain commercial deals to get their business back on its feet.
So the loss was flat falling with the fourth quarter in seating and a little bit better in electrical.
And the North American structures business that business is improving.
It did improve year-over-year and it did improve from the fourth quarter as well.
So we're making nice strides.
And I will tell you we're making nice strides in South America even though the environment is becoming very challenging more challenging if that's possible.
Should we think of those as they continue to improve that there should be balance in the margin just to go with the rest of the year or are they… I think that's part of the reason why we would expect the margins in seating to return more to target margins longer-term of around 7%.
Those would be two areas we would expect to improve to get us there.
And you've said in prior presentations that you are against splitting the seating and electrical business but do you think the company is trading at a discount.
What do you think you could do to actually address the evaluation valuation discount? Do you think maybe being more aggressive with share buybacks any thoughts there on how you [technical difficulty] to improve that? Well first and foremost I think the performance of the company will drive the valuation.
Specifically I think the valuation will be benefited by the type of performance we're seeing in seating and the margins expansion in seating.
I think electrical people are starting to recognize the value of that business and I think you're seeing the margin expansion there will drive through their multiple expansion.
We've been very aggressive with the share repurchase but at the end of the day I don't think a share repurchase program in itself will drive a valuation improvement.
I think really it's all about performance and communication.
We're doing that.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning Dan Levy on for Brian.
Thanks for taking the question.
Could you provide us with some context on the disparity of organic top line growth between electrical and seating? I understand that seating has benefited from launch activity on a number of platforms but it just seems that even increased electrical architecture content and vehicles that the growth profile for electrical would be much closer to what you've seen in seating.
Is it just a function of underperformance for electrical on specific platforms? It's driven probably more than anything by the Euro.
This business has a little bit bigger in Europe as a percentage than seating and the Euro impact of this and I think if you took exchange out of it you'd see a growth rate that doubled the industry and would be consistent with the content growth in a business that's gaining share.
There was some mixed shift headwinds in the quarter on some certain car lines that they have high content on but it's important to look at that segment I believe over the last several years in the growth rate that it's had from a compounded standpoint has been in certain years almost tripled the industry growth.
So it's just an odd cadence right now.
That business is continuing to win new programs and gain share.
And I would expect it to continue to grow and it has been growing on a exchange consistent basis if you will.
You said organic growth for the segments was 2% is that correct? The industry growth was 2% and that content growth in the segment is between 4% to 5%.
And do you have a specific target for outperformance over the industry? I think we can continue to outpace the industry by at least a couple of points in this segment.
Okay.
And just one more follow-on should we think -- is there any lumpiness in the backlog or customer mix programs changeovers for electrical? How should we think about the cadence of growth for the remainder of 2015? It's very consistent.
It's not really lumpy it's fairly consistent.
The profile is consistent with the first quarter.
So it's actually pretty steady backliner [ph].
There might be 2s or 3s type lumpiness but nothing really that big as far as revenue.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
A bunch of mine have been answered but just wanted to focus a little bit on the trajectory margins beyond 2015.
How do we think about what the main levers there? So far based on the discussion we've had today it seems like Eagle Ottawa accretion is kind of mostly this year.
You are kind of nearing the end of the restructuring of the components' footprints.
So can be go through the key margin levers that are left for beyond 2015? I think Latin America was discussed as one of them but there may be other things I'm sure.
Well I think production numbers in Europe while up are still below their historic numbers.
I think getting that segment or that geographic region to start performing closer towards its historic run rate will benefit us with our business segment there including getting Russia to stabilize; same thing with South America.
North American metals is making -- construction business is making nice strides.
I think the opportunities are just beginning with Eagle Ottawa and I think we'll see some improvement with that in the back half of the year.
And it's again and a two thirds changeover of the business segments.
It's running that business more efficiently and putting in some of the engineering changes that we can help with our customers to drive lower costs and then in the end better performance for Lear.
So we're making nice strides and I think we'll continue to work on those items.
And it's important to note that seating that with our current cost to capital that we start returning in excess of our cost to capital when this segment posts margin numbers above 5%.
So it's all really good business for us at this point.
In electrical we believe that business can run at above 30% which is where it's at right now and continue to gain share.
That business segment with its current mix of business starts returning in excess of the cost to capital of 6.5 7 maybe so again we've got a nice opportunity to create value for our shareholders while continuing to grow both business segments.
That's helpful.
Just one maybe clarification on Europe I think to your point a lot of suppliers are viewing this as probably the biggest incremental growth opportunity over the next year or two and the hope there is that the incremental margins on the first 15% of that business will be relatively high since it's underutilized.
Is that the right way to think about it? Or are there other complications of maybe some initial pricing pressure and some things like that that make it less rosy? There's always pricing pressure in our business because our customers are under it.
And that's just a given.
And I think that controlling the amount of the vertical supply chain that we do and having the full engineering capabilities allows us to provide those solutions to our customers.
With that being said I think I don't really see anything what would impact the incremental conversion -- every car line kind of had its own financial D&amp;A.
On an average in Europe we're about I would say 10% to 15% on the incremental conversion of the additional volume.
While our component facilities are starting to reach some level of high capacity utilization our just in time assembly plants that are usually dedicated to a specific car line still has a lot of room to improve and I think that would provide a conversion that would be in the mid-teens.
I think there's this -- I think there's upside I think that market is finally starting to deliver on the promise that we were hoping for the last several years.
Great.
And one last one to clarify so you said Eagle Ottawa you said I think accretive 20 basis points this year to margins.
But it sounds like that's really only a start.
It kind of spills into next year -- some of that is calendarization and some of that is synergies I guess? Yes it's synergies it's calendarization it's the ability to utilize their design capabilities combined with our sewing capabilities to really provide lower cost solutions to our customers which I think the incremental volumes that will drive will allow us to convert nicely on the margin and still provide a great solution to our customers.
So I do think we're just at the beginning of the value for that acquisition.
Okay great thanks for all the color.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Rod.
First question just in terms of seasonality of earnings -- I looked back over the past couple of years for electrical and I can't see a single instance since 2011 where Q1 was the peak margin.
Typically it's been improving sequentially each quarter.
What is different about this year that would give it a different cadence? Not a whole lot.
Timing of commercial resolutions in a broad bucket Rod and settlements with customers and suppliers overall like I said if the industry volumes and currency stays the same and the mix stays the same we'd expect this segment to post towards the higher end of the range.
Okay.
Normally the settlements are like later in the year and that's positive in the beginning of the year.
You're dealing with the price down for the new year.
That's consistent this year? Fairly consistent I mean there's literally thousands of inputs; that's one of them.
Yes it's fairly consistent.
It was a good quarter clean quarter.
There's still some commercial resolutions that need to take place in that segment that could move the margins slightly lower into the range that we gave at '13.
Right now we're kind of comfortable at this range.
We think this is the range that it'll all perform at if the assumptions hold.
Okay.
And on seating could you just clarify what your answer was on the South American margins or South American earnings? Are you saying that is flat year over year or were you saying that it's breakeven and where is North American structures now in terms of profitability? Yes year-over-year first quarter-first quarter South America was better Rod.
From a run rate standpoint coming off the fourth quarter it was flat but it was flat on lower sales as we continue to restructure that business.
In certain cases kind of trade off programs that may make sense for others to do.
So the business is I think performing better even though the losses are flat it's just because it's on a meaningful reduction in revenue if you will.
The structures business is still below where we expect it to be long term.
It is profitable but not yet returning its cost to capital.
We still think there's upside there that business I believe it went through an unprecedented level of growth.
We're digesting it; we're doing some things with the footprint and plant layouts.
And in certain cases we're working through engineering changes with our customers to try to get the product cost in line with where they needed to be.
So I still think both have upside.
Okay.
And lastly this year your CapEx is in the 2.7% 2.8% of sales range.
Excluding FX and acquisitions you are suggesting like 4.5% to 7% organic growth.
Could you give us maybe a little bit of a rule of thumb on CapEx with the new business configuration? If a normal year down the road was more like 2% or 3% what would your CapEx be as a percentage of sales? I think this year the guidance on CapEx obviously includes Eagle Ottawa.
Eagle Ottawa runs a little bit higher as a percent of sales mid-4% range which ultimately when combined with Lear has taken our overall CapEx as a percentage of sales from the 2.5% range to 2.7%.
I think you should look on what's coming on board down the road I think we'll level off on CapEx in the mid-2% of sales range longer term.
Is that maintenance CapEx or does that include growth CapEx? That includes the CapEx to support the backlog.
So it does include growth CapEx.
All right.
I guess what I'm trying to get out maybe more specifically is is there a way to think about that in terms of maintenance versus growth CapEx? At given time you're going to have some maintenance it might be 10%-15% of the overall CapEx bill it might be just to maintain the franchise if you will.
Okay.
But if the growth were to slow -- some companies… The growth was slow capital would come down obviously because the vast majority of our capital is to support growth.
That means that there's always some level of capital on footprint and maintaining and in certain cases moving production Rod.
So you see it trim up to maybe something slightly below.
If there was no growth you see it slightly below 2% if there is growth you see it 2.5%.
I mean it's not a real big movement quite frankly.
Yes.
If you look at the history too probably the best way to guide it would be to look at '08 and '09 and '10 when capital was way low because we didn't have any growth.
To me that would keep the maintenance capital -- the bottom.
But there were also program cancellations at that point of time.
Every year you are presumably spending capital on new programs that are launching… Yes '10 was -- probably '10 would be a good year to look at I would think from a profile standpoint as a percentage of sales.
Okay.
As a percentage of sales I think there you're -- if I remember right Rod it's about a 1.50% maybe 1.75% something like that.
Right okay thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Ravi Shanker from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
If I could just ask the strategic question a different way.
I'd say in the last year you've seen a fair bit of consolidation and change in the interior space with some of the smaller players actually getting bigger.
I'm wondering if there is still any connection between interiors and seating and if the interiors business which has been a pretty hard business over the last decade gets to be a better margin better return business if there's any implication at all for the seating business? No.
I mean there is no connection thank God.
No I don't really see that happening Ravi.
You're right it is a -- in many cases a highly engineered commodity price product and we exited that segment as part of our portfolio management because we didn't think it made a whole lot of sense for us.
I don't envision those businesses combined or extending or overlapping in any way.
We have actually no involvement in any interiors business at this point.
I don't anticipate getting involved in an interiors business any time soon or at all actually [ph].
Understood.
Just a couple of housekeeping on Eagle Ottawa I apologize if I missed this but what was the revenue and EBIT contribution in the quarter? I think the sales were just slightly under $200 million and the margin contribution was just slightly ahead of the overall seat margins for the quarter.
So it didn't really move the needle on the overall seat margins.
Okay.
In terms of growth is that also going to be consistent with your overall seating business? In terms of… The Eagle Ottawa portion does that grow in line with the overall seating business? No it grows at a higher -- there's more content growth that we foresee in that segment certainly given everything Matt talked about on comfort craftsmanship where the vehicles go and in terms of increased leather participation.
We see that market or that business growing maybe faster than the overall seat business.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my call.
Can you update on the raw material tailwind at least in part I think allowing you to offset the currency headwinds.
So which raws are pass-through and are they necessarily 100% pass-through? How should we think about raw material savings being split just sort of generally between automakers and suppliers? You got to take it individually.
I think as a broad brush what we are seeing on commodities is that on a year-over-year basis the commodity prices are generally lower than what they were in 2014 and continue to seemingly go down -- maybe other than copper that recently spiked back up a bit.
In terms of customer recoveries with copper we buy about 150 million pounds of copper on an annual basis and about 85% of that buy is covered by some type of customer recovery agreement.
So that the 15% is our exposure and what we've seen given that exposure is what the lower year-over-year copper costs have seen some tail wind on that.
The other large one for us is as a result of Eagle Ottawa obviously in the hide markets.
And the hide markets have softened somewhat recently.
Now a lion's share of that hide market buy is covered via customer agreements.
So our exposure on the hide markets is relatively small.
On steel obviously that's a big buy; I think our buy that area is about 3.5 billion pounds of steel annually.
About half of that buy is directed by the customers.
So our exposure to that is nothing with respect to 50% of it.
There's about 35% of that steel buy that comes in a fabricated form from our supply base and about 15% that is a direct buy or coiled steel.
And generally speaking we do not have customer agreements that cover us for that roughly 15% steel buy risk.
That's very helpful.
And then just a final follow-up on sort of unrelated note -- what impact do you see the lower fuel prices having on your business? Do you think it's a tailwind relative to your exposure to large SUVs that naturally have more seats? But wanted to get your thoughts there.
Then also in terms of your own logistics cost what impact could fuel prices have on freight in freight out transportation between your factories etc.? Is that something we should be thinking about? Yes I think low fuel prices obviously benefit the larger vehicles and the trucks if you look at the historic trends and correlation.
And I think we are starting to see that as well in the production mix in the sales rates in the expectations of the sales rates in the large product segments; SUVs pickups and large domestic vehicles.
So we are getting a tail wind that.
And Jeff can you take him through what we are seeing on the freight logistics savings? Well I think you're exactly right in phrasing the question that we have seen both from a logistics cost and the fuel costs -- necessarily fuel costs but chemical costs as it relates to some of our foam buy that the cost structure both logistically and foam wise has been down.
It's been a tailwind for us to offset some of the downside that we've seen in the currency devaluation.
So it's provided a tail wind generally across the board on each of the commodities.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Brett.
M&amp;A -- I was hoping Matt you might be able to provide us with a little more detail on what you might be seeking in the area of the electronics or electrical business? What types of acquisitions might you be looking for or targeting? Really software houses that can help us with our -- expand our industry leading gateway modules that help us move signals within the vehicle but also bring signals in from outside.
Software capabilities connectors would be great for us as we connect devices.
What we're now looking for is to be a main participant in active safety or self-driving vehicles where we're focused more on the moving of the signals and connecting the devices.
The live electrical distribution provider i.e.
wiring; if it provided a diversification of customer mix or geographic diversity would be interesting for us but again Brett everything has to be at the right valuation to make sense.
We're winning business without it and we continue t have industry leading smart junction box technology and gateway but this would facilitate growth.
So we found the right firm we would absolutely make the investment.
And in terms of say size of the company or something along those lines how would you kind of characterize it? Should we expect these to be largely bolt-on acquisitions or is it possible that you could make quite a meaningful acquisition with possibly one of your major competitors? Yes I don't see the major competitors for a few reasons; I don't think it make sense.
They are typically strong where we are.
In many cases not available or they're available at a multiple that doesn't make a whole lot of sense for Lear and it doesn't make a whole lot of sense for our customers ultimately who will actually impact the decision-making process.
So I would tell you that I don't foresee that I don't think that's going to happen.
I do think it will be more in a bolt-on range really about adding capabilities from a tactical standpoint and then leveraging that technical capabilities against our customer relationships and footprint and being able to expand it that way and I think that's the better investment options for our shareholders and the better solution for our customers.
And I know this may go contrary to some of the investors that you've been speaking with here but is there any consideration of adding a third leg to the organization? Or is the focus going to be primarily on growing seating organically and then growing the electric organically with some possible bolt-on acquisition? More of the latter I really don't see a third leg for us.
I don't think it makes sense.
I'm really happy with the product portfolio as it stands right now between the two business segments.
I think both have growth opportunities.
I think the content explosion in electrical is great.
I think the cash generation in seating is outstanding.
So I'm happy with the product portfolio and I do not see a third leg at this point.
Excellent thank you very much Matt.
You're welcome Brett.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
You're welcome Richard.
On the European revenues down 3.2% for the quarter; we've got the Euro down about 18% versus the first quarter last year.
Is there something in there that -- your production was higher? Eastern Europe was higher.
What was it that offset --? Maybe you have an organic Europe revenue percentage change number you can give us? Well I think generally speaking we had backlog in the quarter specific to that region to kind of offset some of the impact of the devaluing series of currencies there.
We also had in some cases some positive mix on our specific programs as we don't sell to the overall market we sell to specific car line.
So we didn't get a mixed tailwind I think more predominantly in the seating side of the business and on the electrical side.
Some of our key programs in electrical Focus for example was down year-over-year but generally speaking it was the backlog that came on during the quarter and at an overall basis some of our key programs were higher on a year-over-year basis to offset some of the impact of currency.
Okay.
And then on the margins was there any impact from the currency there that helped the margin to be more favorable where you've got some U.S.
dollar revenue but some costs in Euros or something? That's more on the transactional side when you get paid in one currency and have to pay others.
I think as a general rule there is a number of different currency payers that we deal with there.
But on the transactional side generally we will get paid in Euros and have to pay labor and overhead in some of the Eastern European countries in the local currencies.
And generally speaking from a transactional perspective it was a negative in the quarter.
Okay.
So you've gotten a positive margin expansion even though currency was a headwind towards the margins in the quarter is that fair to say? No I think from a margin perspective for example electrical; electrical is a higher margin business in Europe than our seating business for example.
So as you translate the income statement back into U.S.
dollars at a devaluing currency it's going to have an impact and it had a greater impact in the quarter on our electrical business given the higher margin profile that that business has in Europe in the seating business.
Okay.
So I mean overall I think the question is did it have a -- it was more of a negative effect than a positive effect to the business if it sorts itself out it could be a tailwind.
Okay.
And just wanted to get a little bit more insight into South America you know the run rate was declines of the high teens up until this quarter.
Did you have specific customer shutdowns or something going on down there that made the drop so much larger in the first quarter? We did have certain shutdowns lower productions and mixed shifts if you will and it's fairly pervasive across the Board as far as delays because I think everybody is experiencing that problem but we also had certain programs that didn't make sense for Lear to do that we gave back so we had a negative backlog if you will.
So it was a combination of factors.
I think everybody is kind of struggling with that segment.
I think everybody sees the long-term value of being with but it's going to go through some pain in the near term before I think it gets back to a profitable region if you will.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome Richard.
There are no further… Yes I was just going to say I think that does it for the Q&amp;A.
And probably all that remain on the call now is the Lear team and I want to personally thank all of you for your hard work and dedication and attention to detail because these results just don't happen by luck or happenstance.
It happens through hard work.
I want to urge all of you to remain focused on attacking waste at all levels and inefficiencies at all levels and I know if we do that we're the best team in the industry we will remain successful.
So thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Lear Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Vice President of Investor Relations Ed Lowenfeld you may begin your conference.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Our earnings press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and materials for our earnings call are posted on our Web site lear.com through the investor relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation materials and also in our SEC filings.
In addition we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slide labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation materials.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 5 and I'll hand it over to Jeff.
Thanks Eddie.
Lear continued its positive momentum in the second quarter with sales growing faster than the industry and record core operating earnings.
Sales in the second quarter were $4.6 billion up 1% from a year ago.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales grew by 10% including organic growth [ph] of 6%.
Core operating earnings increased 23% to $337 million; the highest quarterly earnings in our history and margins were higher in both business segments.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 33% to $2.82 per share.
During the quarter we continued to return cash to shareholders and I'll provide more detail later in the presentation on our share repurchases.
In light of our improving financial results and our confidence in the outlook for our business we are increasing our 2015 earnings outlook.
Slide 6 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the second quarter.
In the quarter 21.7 million vehicles were produced globally.
While global production was relatively consistent with a year ago Lear's major markets all showed increases.
Production increased by 2% in both China and North America and by 1% in Europe.
Excluding Russia where production was down 33% Europe production was up 5%.
Production was mixed in the emerging markets with India up 6% and Brazil down 18%.
The Euro averaged $1.11 in the quarter down 19% from a year ago.
Slide 7 shows our reported financial results for the second quarter.
Reported sales in the quarter increased by 1% from a year ago to 4.6 billion.
Sales were negatively impacted by 425 million in foreign exchange primarily related to a weaker Euro and Brazilian Real.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $286 million up $53 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $21 million up $6 million reflecting debt incurred to finance the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
Other expense was $9 million down $8 million primarily reflecting the impact of foreign currency transactions.
Depreciation and amortization increased by $7 million primarily reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
And net income attributable to Lear was $182 million up $33 million.
Slide 8 shows the impact of non-operating items on our second quarter results.
During the quarter we incurred $51 million of restructuring costs primarily related to a plant closure in North America and salary census actions.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $337 million up $63 million from 2014.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable operating performance the benefit of new business the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and increased production on key platforms partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items net income attributable to Lear was $220 million and diluted earnings per share was $2.82 up 33% from 2014.
Slide 9 shows our second quarter adjusted margins.
Total company adjusted margins were 7.3% up 130 basis points from a year ago and a record for the second quarter.
In Seating sales of $3.6 billion increased 4% from last year with adjusted earnings of $253 million up $56 million or 29%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales increased by 12% reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa the addition of new business and higher production on key platforms.
Adjusted margins were 7.1% up 140 basis points from a year ago.
The increase in margins primarily reflects strong sales growth the impact of the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and favorable operating performance.
Given the strong performance in the first half of 2015 we expect full year margins in Seating to be in the high 6% range.
In Electrical sales of 1.1 billion were down 7% from last year.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were up 4% primarily reflecting the addition of new business.
Adjusted margins improved to 13.9% up 140 basis points from a year ago reflecting strong operating performance and the benefit of new business.
Given the strong first half performance we expect full year margins in Electrical to be in the high 13% range.
Slide 10 provides a summary of free cash flow which was $361 million in the second quarter.
Slide 11 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.1 million shares for a total of $122 million.
Since initiating the share repurchase program in 2011 we have repurchased 33 million shares for a total of $2.1 billion.
Including dividends total cash returned to shareholders over the same period is over $2.4 billion.
Our share repurchases represent a reduction of approximately 31% of our shares outstanding at the time we began the program.
The average price paid to repurchase shares over the life of the program is about $65 per share.
At the end of the second quarter we have a remaining share repurchase authorization of 765 million which expires on December 31 of 2017.
This represents approximately 10% of our current market capitalizations.
Slide 13 highlights the key assumptions in our 2015 outlook which is based on the latest IHS production assumptions customer production releases and any specific communications by platform.
Global production of approximately 87 million units is consistent with our prior guidance with growth forecasted in all of Lear's major markets.
Our 2015 financial outlook is based on an average Euro assumption of $1.10 per Euro unchanged from our prior guidance but down 17% from 2014.
This implies an average exchange rate of $1.09 per Euro for the remainder of the year.
Slide 14 highlights our 2015 financial outlook.
Based on our strong performance in the first half of the year we are increasing full year guidance.
Core operating earnings are now expected to be in the range of $1.225 billion to $1.275 billion up $50 million from the prior outlook.
Free cash flow for 2015 is forecasted to be $625 million also up $50 million from the prior outlook.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great job.
Thanks Jeff.
Several years ago we implemented a balanced strategy of increased investments in emerging markets and component capabilities complementary acquisitions a consistent return of cash to shareholders all while maintaining a strong balance sheet with investment grade metrics.
The significant investments we've made in expanding our component capabilities and restructuring our operations have provided Lear with a low cost component footprint in all regions of the world.
We are the industry's low cost producer in both our product segments.
We continue to improve our manufacturing footprint with our recent restructuring actions in North America along with the opening of a new world-class seat structures facility in Mexico and three new facilities in Easter Europe to support our growing seating electrical businesses.
We also employ approximately 2 000 engineers in low cost countries.
Since 2012 we acquired Eagle Ottawa Premium Leather and Guildford Performance Textiles to provide our customers with the world's lowest cost and highest quality seat surfaces.
With these acquisitions we now have full component capabilities for both our businesses in all major automotive producing regions of the world.
As the chart on Slide 17 shows our strategy is to delivering improved financial performance.
From 2010 through the end of 2015 our guidance reflects what will be a doubling of our core operating earnings and an increase in core operating margins from 5.2% to approximately 6.8%.
Over this timeframe both sales and earnings have far outpaced overall industry growth.
We remain fully committed to our seating and electrical businesses both of which are performing at target margins.
Our continued investment in both our product segments allows us to provide our customers with the best cost quality and craftsmanship which drives increased market share and ultimately higher shareholder returns.
In summary we continued our positive momentum in the second quarter with record quarterly earnings.
Organic sales growth in seating and electrical at 6% and 4% respectively was much better than the overall industry.
And both business segments reported record earnings in the second quarter.
Given our strong competitive position we are confident our business will continue to perform well and we are increasing our full year outlook.
We remain well-positioned to take advantage of major industry trends such as global platforms direct-to-component sourcing increasing electrical content improve fuel efficiency and growing consumer demands for comfort convenience and safety features.
Our strong operating performance and financial flexibility provides the resources necessary to continue to invest in the business.
We are confident that these investments will provide benefit to our customers drive market share gains and ultimately create additional value for our shareholders.
Now we'll be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citi.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks good morning and congrats everyone.
Thanks Itay Well just off on the margins nice progress in the second quarter.
First Matt love to get your thoughts on just midterm margins for both segments.
And also I think in electrical typically the second half at least in the last couple of years has been materially higher margin than the first half of the year any potential that could occur again and maybe bump even north of that high 13% range? Yes.
At the midterm I think both of these businesses are performing very well at approximately the target margins for the segment.
I think in any given quarter Itay you can have a movement of a couple of tenths either way.
There's literally thousands of inputs that go into the business along with a very dynamic mix if you will.
Could it get a little bit better in the second half? It would.
I'd just caution a little bit about the third quarter seasonality.
In the third quarter where we typically have summer shutdowns in Europe and in certain cases even in North America so we would expect normal seasonality.
But overall I think on the average two businesses are where they are going to run at plus or minus a few tenths.
That's very helpful.
And then moving on to China love to get just an update on the post Eagle Ottawa what you are [ph] seeing there and also just what your exposures are? And how maybe we should think about sensitivities if we were to see any additional material weakness in that market? We could.
China has been on a phenomenal growth rate and it's obviously the biggest automotive producing region of the world or market in the world at the point.
For us we have roughly 2.3 billion in consolidated sales about 1.8 billion in non-consolidated sales.
And that averages out to about $100 of content consolidated and maybe about 80 not consolidated.
The downward conversion on that would be about 20% on the variable loss sales Itay.
We have seen some slowing in the releases but it's still a growth overall to the first half.
We're keeping an eye on it.
We have also factored in all the communication that we have had along with certain other sensitivities in our guidance and we are pretty confident with the number that we put out today.
Great terrific.
Thanks for the detail.
The last question Matt any just thoughts on the booking activity in the first half of the year? What you are seeing there particularly with some of what's happening with one of your competitors? It's been great in both segments; it's been great for a lot of reasons.
One is we are at from a component capability standpoint I think adding Eagle Ottawa was a great addition to the Lear component capabilities.
It allows us to provide the best craftsmanship on the seat covers which drives a lot of values.
I think uncertainty in a marketplace and a competitive position is always great for somebody that's stable and knows where they're going and where they're going to be and has a certainty in investment if you will.
So that's been great.
But it's also been great on electrical where we continue to make progress in that segment and our narrow focus on electrical distribution and basically bringing the neural network on the vehicles also provide us huge values.
So we are really happy with the bookings to the first half.
That's good to hear.
Thanks so much and congrats again.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Murph.
Just a first question on the charge you took in the quarter I just wondered if you could give us a little bit more color around the plant closure in North America andwhat the motivation was there and what you think that the payback period willbefor that charge.
Yes.
It's a seat structure facility in Canada.
A strong facility but unfortunately it was no longer competitive with the labor rates with some of the world-class manufacturing capabilities that we have south of the border John.
So we made a decision unfortunately that we needed to move that production to a lower cost region.
Typically on a action of this type the payback is in two to three years.
Got you okay that's very helpful.
And then just a second question just on the outlook.
Basically you took the China or the Asia volume down by the same amount that you increased North America and Europe yet you increased your guidance.
So is there a higher level of profitability that we are seeing in North America and Europe in content that's driving that increase? I'm just trying to understand the puts and takes between China and the rest of the world because we're seeing North America and Europe increase and China maybe weaken a bit.
I am just trying to understand how much offset there might ultimately be going forward.
Well there's thousands of input John; that come in but on a macro level China is profitable for us.
They're performing slightly above target margins in both segments.
That being said the content and the growth in North America and Europe allows us to convert the incremental volumes at a fair clip.
But we also had -- we're running a little bit ahead on some cost reduction actions in some of the commercial actions that we've taken.
So all in all we've been able to offset a little bit of the downwind that we saw in China.
Okay.
And then also as we think about what's going on with both seating and electronics it appears you're gaining share.
Just curious where that share is coming from.
Is that coming from large incumbents or are you able to take over share from some smaller players and help consolidate both electronics and seating? Mainly actually it's coming is from the larger competitors John.
I do think there's an opportunity for further consolidation on some of the strong regional providers.
As the car companies go more and more to global platforms I think it's important to have a global footprint.
And I think that will provide longer-term opportunities.
Okay.
And then as lastly your acquisitions and opportunity as you go down a line and maybe consolidate some of these smaller regional players? It could be.
There's nothing imminent in that front.
We are looking to expand some of our capabilities.
Specifically in software I think it would be great and I think it's going to be key to helping us take advantage of the explosion of content as car companies look to be more connected and provide more driver-assistant-type programs.
I think we're in a sweet spot with our gateway modules which really are the brains of an automobile and the neural network of distributing both electricity and information through all the components.
So we'll be looking to get better in that area.
But it's not what I would consider major acquisitions at this point.
But the focus of acquisitions would be much more on technology and incremental content as opposed to actual capacity and new business? Right at this point you are correct.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Hello Rod.
I was hoping just a couple things; one is within seating now that you are kind of converging on the 7% long-term margin target I think originally the path to getting there was -- a lot of it had to do with getting North American structures to a specific target and also South America was underperforming.
Can you just update us on how far those businesses are from what you think the right target is? What's the potential variance if those businesses still return? Yes.
The North American structures business is vastly improved but still not at the operating margins that we'd expect that business to be at.
We're continuing to work on it both from our structuring actions and working with our customer's on cost solutions and pricing solutions that get to returns where they need to be.
I think the action that we took on restructuring this quarter will help us close that gap.
South America Rod is a lot further along.
We're still losing money in Seating in South America.
We don't expect that to change this year.
Our volumes are down.
The team there has done an outstanding job of maintaining the losses if you will by taking aggressive actions on structured costs and what have you.
But we don't expect that to return to the target margins in the near future.
So we still think there's upside.
We do expect it to continue to get better but we don't expect it to be profitable this year.
Jeff I don't know if there's any other color we can add to that? No I think that covers it.
I would emphasize that certainly the road to getting back to target margins in North American metals was somewhat achieved via this closure of the plant in Canada.
State-of-the-art facility down it's going to be really a great plant for us going forward and will fill a huge void that we've had in North America from a cost structure standpoint.
I think together Rod those two actions the improvements that we'd expect to get both in North America and in South America would be worth a couple of tenths on the margins for seating.
But again I'd like to just reiterate that there are thousands of different inputs and variables that go into the performance of the business.
And on these two particular ones if we get them where we think can get them it's worth a couple of tenths.
Okay.
And also on seating although China is weakening every automaker is talking about a pretty significant mix improvement that's happening there.
Can you just remind us what you're seeing there in terms of mix? What's the backlog that you've got within China? Well while you send Jeff to the book for backlog in China which I don't think we really have that level of cut on it before what I would tell you is that we're on some pretty high-margin high-profile programs or high content programs because a lot of our business -- roughly half of our business is with the foreign partners.
Car lines like Audi BMW Ford is killing it GM is doing quite well there also.
And those are highly contented vehicles with us with a financial footprint that's not too dissimilar to North America.
Our business over there includes things like A4 or the 5 series the Focus the Cougar the Mondale; going down to GM we have the Buick product the Colorado the Captiva the Cadillac product on the STS.
So it's a good mix of business for us.
And the other half of this is we're about half -- half our content is on the domestic brands which we're starting to see growth in.
So it's a good nice balanced business segment there.
And on the amount of our backlog that's related to China.
Our backlog after right now as you know Rod is $2 billion three-year backlog.
About a third of that is in Asia and most of that third is in China.
That's on a consolidated piece.
We don't include that consolidated sales into our backlog.
Great.
And then just lastly could you just remind us what you were thinking in terms of the impact on EBIT from commodities like electric -- the copper and resin impact and also from FX? Well from a commodity's perspective certainly to the question that was raised earlier on given the volume scenario up and down in various regions and the uptick in the guidance the commodity tailwind has been a part of that.
Probably we're 10ish basis points just on the commodity side.
On an FX–basis obviously it's hurt the top line pretty significantly.
But from the margin perspective it has probably only been worth to the total company maybe 10 basis points; more so in electrical than in seating but in overall company about 10 bps [ph].
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Welcome Rod.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
It's actually Dave Tamberrino on for Pat.
We only have a couple of quick questions and don't mean to dwell on these topics.
But in terms of seating margins can you maybe just provide us a breakdown of what -- how much of the expansion was driven by the accretion of and mix -- excuse me -- from Eagle Ottawa maybe some of the synergies within it and then just from productivity gains? I think what we sign in Eagle Ottawa is Eagle for the quarter was -- were about 30 basis points to the overall margins in Seating.
And going back to Rod's question on commodities certainly the height market has helped us in that end.
From a synergy perspective I think we had suggested when we announced the acquisition that synergies in the first year would be 10 to 15 millionish.
We're right on -- Within the first 12 months we're right on track for that level of synergies.
Heading into 2016 should that ramp up from that $10 million to $15 million range or is that only the expected synergies there? Yes I think what we looked at before was beyond the first 12-month period we'd be in that $20ish million range.
And again that's still kind of the direction we're heading.
That's fair.
And just lastly on China obviously with one of your competitors looking now to spin off its asset into its own public company I think we've heard some intensified quoting activity there.
Maybe against that backdrop of the declining production environment can you fill us in on what it has looked like? If it has been more competitive within the region or if it is kind of steady as she goes? The business is competitive in every market of the world.
I think when you're quoting a business that doesn't launch for another three years and months for five years on top of that.
Typically car companies want to know whether they're in China or Europe or North America who is going to be doing their business how they're going to be capitalized what's the management team and are they committed to the investment that it's going to require.
When there's uncertainty in the marketplace that's a benefit for those that have clear direction.
From that standpoint it's helping us.
Great sounds pretty positive.
Congrats on the quarter and thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks for that good morning everyone.
Matt if I can just follow up on the last response on the GSEI spin you have said that and it is very logical that as long as there is uncertainty about future direction of a competitor that is good for you.
Do you see the spin as kind of bringing that to an end? Or do you see the emergence of probably the first stand-alone seating player as being more disruptive in the marketplace in terms of price and them bringing back -- trying to gain back some of the share they lost? So the question is you've probably envisioned GSCI [ph] doing this with their business.
How do you think this kind of changes the competitive dynamics in the marketplace? I'm sorry to say what they're doing and I have no inside information on what they're doing.
It's hard to say.
I would just be speculating Ravi.
I think as a stand-alone business that it's going to require obviously the type of profit returns that shareholders expect.
And that's going to depend a lot on their equity structure and their capital structure.
So I really don't know what they're doing and I feel a little bit hesitant to speculate what their behavior will be in the marketplace.
So I really don't know.
Understood that's fair enough.
Just switching to EPMS obviously these margins are pretty eye-popping and I think you are now the class of the field here.
But what can be done to accelerate the growth? I think you did see organic growth step up sequentially in the second quarter.
But how do you get that growth up? You are certainly doing the margins that one would expect of a secular growth business.
How do you get the top line up to being a secular growth type high single-digit low double-digit growth as well? Well I think we need to continue what we're going; working on the footprint putting production to capacity in the right locations.
Whether it's Northern Africa or Easter Europe Mexico or Asia we need to have the best footprint.
And we've been paying quite a bit of attention to that.
I also think you need to continue to invest in your engineering capabilities which we've also been doing as far as getting better in software and ability to write code whether that's security software or just the basic software it takes to move signals around a vehicle.
More and more it's becoming about moving data as opposed to just electrical signals if you will.
I think that's been our focus.
We've got I believe one of the most efficient ways to move data and signals through a vehicle.
And if given the opportunity to get in there and show a car company what we can do I'm confident that we can take cost out of their electrical architecture systems.
That's been proven to be a winning formula and we just want to keep pounding that rock.
I think it'll pay huge dividends to us.
Understood and just lastly one clarification.
Did you say earlier about your import versus domestic OEM split in China was 50/50? Yes it's roughly 50/50.
What led us into China largely was our partnerships with the foreign brands; BMW Daimler GM Ford PSA.
But from that base now we're able to build our relationships with the domestic automakers or their domestic products and that base is growing to roughly 50/50.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi this is Amit [ph] here on behalf of Ryan.
The question I had was maybe I didn't catch this but did you update your guidance for seating margins for the full year? Yes not specifically but we would expect it to be in high sixes low sevens.
The guidance implies that type of margin range depending upon production and mix.
Good good.
Then just on the 6% I think organic growth that you mentioned for the seating business or ARM [ph] that is delivered in this quarter.
Can you -- in terms of can you break it down geographically so that we can get a better feel where you are gaining share like in which regions are you really gaining share? I think we are gaining share in each of the regions with the exception maybe not shares is not the right way to look at it but from a top line perspective South America sales were down probably about 50% in the quarter versus last year.
But in the other regions the more mature regions we are gaining share in each of those regions.
Okay great.
And when we think of where you sort of land up portfolio margins on both the segments for this full year 2015 now and start to think about 2016; is there like a benefit from the raw material cost that we should keep in mind when we're sort of forecasting 2016 that's benefiting 2015 but maybe doesn't continue in 2016? It's a little bit earlier to talk about 2016 quite frankly but we think that the conditions will be relatively consistent.
Again commodities may level off next year it's a little bit early to speculate.
But again there is literally thousands of different inputs all driven by mainly the car lines that are on and the mix that we are on but we don't a major headwind with commodities going into 2016 if that's the question.
Okay.
And just lastly looking at the piece of repurchases that you are doing is this sort of the piece you are comfortable with around about this 100 million-120 million per quarter and any update on discussions with Marcato? There hasn't been any real discussions with made directly Marcato off late.
I know that we were on the West Coast through an investor meetings and he had representatives there.
It's been very positive discussion with him.
As far as the pace of the buyback it's largely a board decision.
I wouldn't anticipate it being too different one way or the other from what we have done through the first half.
The board has consistently accelerated the pace of the buyback evidence of the confidence in our ability to generate cash.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
And your next question comes the line of Dan Galves with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to ask about Europe; if you could just give us your broad outlook I know you said that Western Europe and Africa was up 5% production in Q2.
Was that better than you expected? Are you seeing -- have you seen kind of schedules increase over the course of the year as demand has been pretty strong and if you could give us any color on where your margins are in Europe versus the corporate average? Yes.
It was a little bit of an upside from where we gave our update in April.
It came in a little bit stronger.
I think the retail rates and the production rates are pretty strong.
Our business in Europe is also very strong.
From the seat segment our margins are up in Europe but still below the target margins overall or the overall segment margins is due to largely the level of vertical integration there is a little bit lower than what we see in North America typically.
In electrical the opposite is true that they are slightly above or consistent with this type of margins because it has a full ability to vertically integrate.
Our business there is strong and that it's well diversified both in customer and platform mix from the high-end which enjoy certain export benefits but also to entry level vehicles on the B segment C segment types.
So it's a good mix of business and it's a good mix between electrical and seating so overall the European region did quite well in the quarter.
Okay great.
And any update -- GM has said that they are working on breaking some bottlenecks in K2XX facilities and squeaking out some more production.
Do you have any update on how that's going what you kind of could expect or what's baked into your guidance for this year on the K2XX production? Yes.
Our K2XX production is very consistent with IHS.
Obviously those vehicles are doing very very well in the marketplace and we would benefit if they increase their production of them.
From our standpoint an average content on the baseline pickup truck would be anywhere from 800 to 1200 maybe slightly higher on a crew cabs.
SUVs can go from 1800 to 2200 of content.
Any incremental volumes that come in we usually convert them at a fair clip 15% to 20% to the bottom line.
So the more they can sell this vehicle that would obviously benefit what we have included in our guidance.
Okay got it and just one housekeeping; could you -- do you have a number for Asia growth X currency? Asian growth X currency I don't think currency really impacted… It wasn't material? Did you get that about 8%? That was John Trifall our brains behind the operation the Head of Planning and Analysis.
Thanks John; so 8% growth in Asia X currency.
Yes.
Thank you great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
I just have a few questions around China.
First is can you provide us a sense of your China sensitivity and simply put if Chinese production goes up or down 1% as it flows for both the consolidated and nine consolidated what would that mean to your core operating earnings? It depends on where they take the 1% from Brian.
If it's on our on platforms then it would have a bigger impact.
Right now what we were mentioning earlier in the call perhaps you missed it was that on a consolidated basis we have about $100 of content on average.
And that would convert around 20% on the downside per unit.
So I don't know what that means from a percentage standpoint.
From a non-consolidated standpoint we have roughly $80 of content and again you would see the same type of conversion but typically in the subs we own about 50% of them.
So if you did the math you can extent it out that way.
Okay.
And the second can you give us on the non-consolidated side a sense of the type of partnership you have with your JV partners? How many JV partners to you have? Where is the managerial control in those joint ventures? And then what kind of downside scenario planning have you pursued with your JC partners? And who -- if you need to actually slow growth change facilities change staffing how much say does your team have versus the local partners? We typically partner with our customers because that's been a winning formula and we work with them to make sure that the facilities are managed properly.
Lear typically has managerial control because our expertise is obviously making the components that they are buying.
As you would expect that this business moves up and it moves down and we need to be flexible and that's the hallmark of Lear Corporation being able to manage through this type of production variances and the non-consolidated operations are no different in many cases than the consolidated ones other than board representation.
So we should think of these as a set of JVs close to the final assembly plants as sort of each kind of customer would be its own JV? In many cases you are correct.
Okay and is the workforce in those contracts are they part of -- are they permanent employees? They are both.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
Your Line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
Maybe just one quick one one last quick one on China and I appreciate all the color between the consolidated and unconsolidated.
Can you give any input there as to the types of growth rates at each of those you are expecting for the balance of the year? Yes pretty consistent with the industry overall and we've had nice growth there.
We are penetrating the market in certain cases.
And really from our standpoint if you look at the year-over-year I mean it's about 10% in total on the top line and it's fairly consistent between consolidated and non-consolidated if you look at the year-over-year from '14 to '15.
So slightly ahead of the market overall because of the backlog; about 10% in total and that's based on the current production estimates coming through IHS but also tempered somewhat by recent customer announcements.
So really I don't know what other color we can really put on it quickly.
No that is helpful.
And maybe just one last one; at least as far as I can tell the backlog which you announced earlier this year you look to be running a little bit better sort of halfway through the year if I were to sort of annualize it.
So is that timing do you think first half versus second half? Or is it maybe related to what you mentioned earlier where maybe some of the European business volume has been coming in better so the backlog is coming a little bit better than you… It's more of the latter.
The bonds were running a little bit hot on the programs that we included in the backlog.
The backlog is pretty consistent though first half to second half at this point.
So yes I would think Jeff it's the volume mainly.
It's volume.
Maybe there might be a slight uptick but nothing too material.
Okay thanks a lot.
Congrats guys.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from the line of Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Brett.
I apologize joined a little late here.
Your expectations for China production in the back half of the year I can see your guidance here up 6%.
That is consistent with IHS maybe a little higher than IHS but whatever.
With sales down 3% in June obviously there's concern that maybe the back half of the year gets really weak and we see the number come down significantly.
So based on your discussions with your folks in China what are your expectations for China? Do you believe IHS's numbers are realistic? Or do you think there's some downside risk there possibly? I think as we said during the course of the Q&amp;A that we use a lot of different things to come up with our ultimate volume assumptions.
In this case for the back half of the year one of which is IHS so we look at each of the elements that apply to our platforms and we look at customer releases communication with the customers with respect to potential downtime and known downtime.
So we have incorporated all of those aspects into our guidance for the second half of the year.
All right and then just another kind of longer-term question you are hitting the high end of what I believe is your longer-term -- and you're actually above it for the electrical segment -- margin targets.
And I'm kind of wondering from a seating and electrical business standpoint how do you think about maybe your midterm margin targets even if your longer term margin targets are 6.5% to 7% for seating and 12.5% to 13% for electrical what do you think about the next year or two? Could you exceed that for a period of time? We can absolutely exceed them for a period of time but we think at these margins Brett that we can gain share grow earnings and provide a great return on investment far and excess of our cost to capital.
So from our standpoint our focus really is on at this point earnings growth year-over-year earnings growth driving the top line driving the bottom line making sure that we have an adequate return on the investment that it takes to grow the sales.
And so in any given quarter or sub period of time you could go up above 14 you could above seven or we go slightly below 13 but all in all our focus is on long-term profitable growth.
And this is what we are comfortable guiding the business to.
Okay excellent.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
You are welcome Brett.
Well that's the last question.
I think those that remain on the line are probably mostly Lear employees.
On behalf of the leadership team I want to thank all of you because results like this just don't happen they happen off the batch so a lot of long hours and a lot of commitment.
Keep working hard.
Keep staying focus.
Keep working as a team.
And I want to thank all of you for your efforts.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] John Trythall Vice President Financial Planning and Analysis you may begin your conference.
Thanks Angel.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Our press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and a presentation for our call is posted on our website lear.com through the investor relations link.
Today's presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO; and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also participating on the call are several other members of Lear's leadership team.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation and also in our SEC filings.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today's review.
Following the formal presentation we will be pleased to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 5 and I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks John.
Lear continued its positive momentum in the third quarter with sales growing faster than the industry and record core operating earnings.
Sales in the third quarter were $4.3 billion up 2% from a year ago.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales grew by 11% including organic growth of 6%.
Core operating earnings increased 27% to $320 million and margins were higher in both our business segments.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 33% to $2.56 per share.
During the quarter we acquired intellectual property and technology from Autonet Mobile a leading developer of communications software and devices for automotive applications.
This acquired technology directly connects onboard vehicle systems with cloud based applications via cellular networks.
We also continue to return cash to shareholders.
I'll provide more detail on that later in the presentation.
In light of our year-to-date performance we are increasing our 2015 earnings and free cash flow outlook.
Slide 6 shows third quarter vehicle production in our key markets.
In the quarter 20.3 million vehicles were produced globally consistent with a year ago.
Production was up in North America and Europe but down in China and Brazil and the euro averaged $1.11 in the quarter.
Slide 7 shows our reported financial results for the third quarter.
Reported sales in the quarter increased by 2% from a year ago to $4.3 billion.
Sales were negatively impacted by $374 million in foreign exchange primarily related to a weaker euro and Brazilian real.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were up 11%.
Pretax income before equity income interest and other expense was $303 million up $78 million from a year ago.
Interest expense was $21 million up $6 million reflecting debt incurred to finance the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
Other expense was $22 million up $11 million reflecting the impact of foreign currency transactions.
2014 also benefited by a $5 million gain related to a transaction with an affiliate.
Depreciation and amortization increased by $8 million primarily reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa and net income attributable to Lear was $181 million up $41 million.
Slide 8 shows the impact of non-operating items on our third quarter.
During the quarter we incurred $17 million of restructuring costs related to various census actions.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $320 million up $69 million from 2014.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable operating performance the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and the benefit of new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items net income attributable to Lear was $198 million and diluted earnings per share were $2.56 up 33% from 2014.
Slide 9 shows our adjusted margins in the third quarter.
Total company adjusted margin was 7.4% up 150 basis points from a year ago and a record for the third quarter.
In Seating sales of $3.4 billion increased 5% from last year with adjusted earnings of $243 million up $67 million or 38%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales increased by 14% reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa and the addition of new business.
Adjusted Seating margins were 7.2% up 170 basis points from a year ago.
The increase in margins primarily reflects the strong sales growth including the impact of the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and favorable operating performance.
In Electrical sales of $973 million were down 7% from last year.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were up 4% primarily reflecting the addition of new business.
Adjusted Electrical margins improved to 14% up 70 basis points from a year ago reflecting strong operating performance and the benefit of new business.
Slide 10 provides a summary of free cash flow which was $163 million in the third quarter bringing our year-to-date free cash flow to $404 million.
Slide 11 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares for a total of $148 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 3.5 million shares for a total of $383 million.
Since initiating this share repurchase program in 2011 we have repurchased 34.4 million shares for a total of $2.3 billion and including dividends total cash returned to shareholders over the same period is $2.6 billion.
Our share repurchases represent a reduction of approximately 33% of our shares outstanding at the time we began the program.
The average price paid to repurchase shares over the life of the program is about $67 per share.
At the end of the third quarter we have a remaining share repurchase authorization of 617 million which expires on December 31 of 2017.
This represents approximately 7% of our current market capitalization.
Slide 13 highlights the key assumptions in our 2015 outlook which is based on the latest IHS production forecast and communications from our customers related to our specific platforms.
Global production is now forecasted at approximately 86.1 million units down 1.1 million units from the prior forecast but up 1% from a year ago with growth forecasted in all of Lear's major markets.
Our 2015 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.11 per euro.
Slide 14 highlights our 2015 financial outlook.
Based on our strong performance in the first nine months of the year we are increasing our full year earnings and free cash flow guidance.
Sales are expected to be approximately $18.2 billion consistent with the midpoint of our prior guidance.
Core operating earnings are now expected to be in the range of $1.27 billion to $1.3 billion with the midpoint up 35 million from our prior outlook.
The effective tax rate is projected to be approximately 28% down from our previous guidance of approximately 30%.
Free cash flow for 2015 is forecasted to be $650 million an increase of $25 million from the prior outlook and capital expenditures are expected to remain at approximately $500 million for the year.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt for some closing comments.
Great thanks Jeff and good morning.
Slide 16 highlights major trends that will continue to impact the auto industry.
Global platforms direct component sourcing from the OEMs continue to increase.
We are well positioned to benefit from this with our low cost global footprint and full component capabilities in both product segments.
Seating is an active part of the vehicle safety systems.
Lear has been a industry leader in developing safety features with innovations such as the Active Head Restraint and seat structures that withstand collision impact well in excess of what is demanded by regulatory agencies.
Consumers are demanding more features driving increased complexity and greater contact for electrical distribution and signal management systems.
Stricter fuel economy and lower emission requirements are also driving electrical contact role.
Traditional powertrains are requiring more signal management to achieve better fuel economy and we expect higher contented alternative energy vehicles to continue to penetrate the market.
China has become and we expect it to remain the world's largest automotive market.
Lear has a major presence in China with complete engineering capabilities and 44 manufacturing facilities.
We have joint ventures with all the leading Chinese automakers to support continued growth with both domestic and foreign brands.
Fuel connectivity is an emerging megatrend.
Autonomous driving adapter safety over the air software updates and the management of data are in the early stages of development and have the potential to be the most significant advancement and growth opportunity in recent automotive history.
We are well positioned to capitalize on this opportunity with our ability to distribute power and manage signal utilizing our wireless technology and our leading position in smart junction boxes and Gateway modules.
As shown on Slide 17 we believe that Lear is well positioned for profitable growth in both business segments.
In Seating and Electrical sales are growing faster than the industry.
We are the low-cost producer and we have complete component capabilities in all major regions of the world.
In Seating we are the world leader in luxury and performance seating and we are extremely well positioned to differentiate our seats with unique designs and the highest level of craftsmanship at the lowest possible cost.
In Electrical we have introduced 15 first to market innovations over the past 36 months and as I mentioned in the previous slide we are extremely well-positioned to capitalize on the megatrend of vehicle connectivity.
Slide 18 shows that both our business segments are outpacing the industry growth.
Our market share gains reflect the investments we've made to improve our cost structure and to strengthen our product capabilities.
Since 2010 Lear sales have grown at a compounded annual rate of 9% which is more than double the industry production growth rate.
As the chart on Slide 19 shows our investments have positioned Lear to capitalize on industry trends and deliver improving financial performance.
Since 2010 we have doubled our core operating earnings and increased our margins from 5.2% to 7.1%.
We will continue to provide our customers with the best cost quality and innovation and we expect to further increase our market share and continue to provide superior shareholder returns.
In summary we continued our positive momentum in the third quarter achieving sales growth record earnings and margin improvement in both segments.
Our industry-leading component capabilities and seating allow us to differentiate our seats with unique designs and the highest level of quality and craftsmanship at the lowest possible cost.
In Electrical we are well-positioned to capitalize on the transfer increased content and connectivity.
Our recent acquisition of the technology from Autonet Mobile complements our existing capability to distribute power and manage signals utilizing wireless and cellular networks.
Given our strong competitive position and unique capabilities in both our product segments we are confident our business will continue to performance well.
Based on our strong year-to-date performance we are increasing our full year outlook.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone and congrats.
Thanks Itay.
Probably maybe start with the seat margin in the quarter we usually don’t see expansion from Q2 to Q3 and of course you delivered that in the quarter.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about the sequential drivers in the seat margin this quarter and may be talk to the sustainability of this over the next few quarters? Well it was a good quarter I think that we're taking care of our issues and operating issues but still having some headwinds in South America but we're able to overcome it.
Eagle Ottawa is performing well and that's turning out to be an outstanding acquisition for us.
Operationally we're improving in some of the hotspots like North American structures business but overall just a good clean hard working quarter and I think the margins are sustainable.
Great and maybe just another area of strength in the quarter organic topline growth in a tougher macro can you talk about the drivers there? I mean how much of it is coming from your backlog or your segment mix content mix and is there any region that might be contributing more than another or is it pretty broad based? It is a pretty broad based I mean the beauty of the way our business has become diversified both from a geography basis but also from the type of car lines that we're on we're pretty well diverse and so while certain markets may slow or have problems be it Russia or South America other markets then perform.
And for that I think is what you are seeing the backlog was strong.
It was a good quarter for backlog.
We had about $200 million of backlog between the two business segments.
So I just think it is all indicative of the diversity of the business and also our market share gains Itay.
Great and maybe just on that point lastly I'd just like to go back to Slide 17 and you mentioned the backlog I mean how is booking activity in the last several months given the acceleration in the connectivity megatrend some of your intellectual property recent deals and just the overall environment? I think that trend is upside in the future.
Our backlog bookings have been very good.
We would expect to continue to penetrate the market when we announced a backlog in January; I think you'll see that the evidence of that.
But as far as the megatrend that’s more down the road as car companies are working through how they want to attack.
It is important that you have the capabilities to not only do the traditional electrical architecture but also be able to manage data as it is becoming as much as anything now moving data as much as moving electrical power through the vehicle and I think you'll see that more in the future than right now.
Terrific thanks so much and congrats again.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Murphy.
Just a first question on China because it seems like you operated very well around what was a tough market down 6% there just curious if you can kind of give us some idea of your business mix over there maybe by tier 2 plus cities versus tier 1 cities domestic versus international customers? And then maybe some segmentation because obviously crossovers and SUVs are pretty strong there and sedans are fairly weak if you could give us maybe some broad strokes on those mixes? Yes we really don’t break it down by city broad city or not John so that will be a new cut for us but what I can tell you is our business there is very diversified in that it reflects the market overall.
Right now when you look at it it is roughly I would say 70:30 domestic brand versus partner brands or JV brands actually 70% being the foreign automakers joint venture brands 30% being the domestic automakers which is pretty consistent with the market overall and our shift our balance of business there is actually also very consistent you know entry level A B platform C platforms crossover vehicles.
So the mix is pretty good.
Now growth is slowing in that market but you are putting it on a pretty base and I think IHS is calling Jeff what about a million units of volume a year over the next five years going into China alone? Yeah.
And so while it slowed up in the quarter we were able to withstand it and with our kind of diversification overall.
As far as our segment our sales there are roughly $3.7 billion when you include consolidated and not consolidated it is about 2.1 consolidated versus nonconsolidated.
We're bigger in Seating.
It is about a $1.5 billion in consolidated sales in Seating.
In electrical just under $600 million and both business segments are doing well.
I think that market is incredibly important.
I think the initial indication is that the stimulations with the adjustment on the taxes on the entry level vehicles is working and so we’ll see but in the meanwhile even if the growth slows to a couple of percentage points it’s still on a pretty big base and we take that type of growth rate in any market.
And Matt directionally the seating content on crossover and SUV over there versus sedan is that similar to what we would see in the U.S.
or the rest of the world I mean or there should be a big content differential I would imagine? Yes there is John.
I would say on the foreign brands it is exactly the same.
So when you have the whether it’s the BMWs or the Audis or the Volkswagens you will see very similar to Europe if not identical.
And the domestic brands there is a really not a whole lot of differentiation between sedan and crossover.
They are typically slightly lower contented than their foreign competitors if you will.
But we are seeing a trend where more and more features are being added to the domestic brands as they try to compete with the joint venture brands and consumers are demanding more content.
So the content growth in those products are increasing but not a whole lot of difference quite frankly.
And then second question I mean the messaging that we are getting from automakers is that the raw material exposure is moving sort of a little bit away from them and a little bit more towards the suppliers that's sort of generally sort of the messaging and it just sounds like it might be on the margin.
But just curious what you are seeing there and also how much benefit you are getting from what's been a pretty big decline in copper in the Electrical division.
Before I turn it over to Jeff for the actual heavy lifting on that question I don’t really see a change John in the way that the car companies are handling commodity cost adjustments up or down.
It factors into your annual negotiations and productivity and pricing whether the commodity moves up or it moves down and as we have seen in the last year and a half.
In certain cases there are formal indexing agreements like we have on the copper that are part of our harnesses in other cases it is just in annual negotiation.
Jeff regarding the copper can you take John through the exposure? Yes I think with respect to the agreements on copper specifically about 85% of our copper buy is covered by some type of agreement the cover agreement with the customer.
And then with respect to the overall commodities I think they have been consistent over the last several quarters in a positive way and that the commodity prices have been generally down year-over-year.
So we have gotten a tailwind on almost every one of our major commodities across the board over the last several quarters.
Okay and then just lastly I mean given that there is I mean the world is not falling apart but there are some people that think it might.
I mean if we think about the minimum liquidity that you think you need to keep on the balance sheet as far as cash and available borrowings what is that number if you could remind us as that? And has anything changed in your view that would make you sort of more or less confident in how much of a buffer you need to keep? Let me start with the latter part before I turn over to Jeff on how we're managing our capital structure.
No the answer is no.
There is nothing that we see that would change our view on what we need.
We don’t see any real storm clouds on the horizon.
I think we’re well positioned with our balance sheet strength to take advantage of any market opportunity and also be able to while withstand any short term market disruptions so we really don’t see any changes and the need to change our capital structure.
Jeff? Yes we've defined numerically it’s not exact we’d like to have approximately a $1.5 billion of liquidity part of that’s associated with the working capital peaks and troughs the cash that might be in joint ventures that’s not available for daily use in countries that we can’t easily access and then a buffer to take advantage of market opportunities so all in that’s roughly a $1.5 billion in cash.
We also want to make sure that we maintain investment grade credit metrics which for us means gross leverage at 1.5 times.
Given where we’re at with current gross leverage we think we have about $500 million to $600 million of additional debt capacity to take and still fall within that 1.5 times gross leverage.
That’s incredibly helpful.
Thanks a lot guys and great quarter.
Thank you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
I thought to maybe ask on Autonet Mobile I'm trying to understand the implications if any a fact that whereas your Elesco business has historically been focused on wires and wired connections and now you are expanding into wireless capabilities.
So two things first I think there is always going to be a need obviously to distribute power within the car by wires but presumably some of the signal distribution could also be done wirelessly maybe to save weight is there any thinking in buying Autonet that this helps to look to the future and prevent potential disintermediation of wired signal distribution within the car? I don’t think so because Autonet seems to be focused on communicating between the car and outside networks not within the car but I'd just thought to ask in case you want to lay on? And then secondly maybe more interestingly does the expansion into new area within electrical mean that you could expand into other new areas or maybe relative to I don’t know safety electronics vehicle to vehicle communications or anything along those lines? Yes let me take a part of that answer and then I am going to turn it over to Frank Orsini who is in the room with us today.
He is the President of the Electrical Division.
I would tell you that one thing Ryan we have been in wireless.
We have been a leader in wireless and for us it is really not so much expanding our product line offering as to utilize the product line that we have to take advantage of the trend the gateways which were one of the leaders in the industry is the main hub if you will that translates all the data to the different domains.
Frank regarding Ryan’s question regarding the use of wireless and how all ties together and whether or not you will see the wireless transmission of signals what's your thoughts? Yes Ryan I think it’s a great question what we anticipate happening in the future is you’re always going to be connected through power and signal on the car.
The electrical distribution business that we have will continue to go forward very strong.
On the wireless side itself as Matt mentioned we have industry leading capabilities in wireless in production today.
So if you take our hardware capabilities and gateway technology that was referenced earlier on the call and you coupled out with enhanced software capabilities that we’re bringing on board with Autonet we believe that it really gives us a strong platform for connectivity.
The Autonet acquisition brought cellular communication connectivity Wi-Fi GPS positioning.
So it really sets us up with this great platform of hardware and software for the future.
But wire will continue to be in the vehicle we see that as a strong segment going forward and the Autonet acquisition really enhances our existing capabilities in wireless and electronics and we’re very optimistic about what that looks like in the future.
Okay.
It sounds like an interesting area thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris McNally.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
My question really goes back to Seating and is really a higher level question regards to margins.
See you've gained about 150 basis points since 2013 it has been extremely impressive and my question really is how far can we push the margins with the outlook in Europe U.S.
and China looking up for 2016? Can we still see incremental margins in the mid-teens going forward if volume and share gains continue? Thanks.
Well our view on it Chris is that really we look at our margins as an outcome or a function of the investment and everything we do is return on investment and in seating we start returning an excess of our cost of capital in current configuration when we do crossover that 5% operating margin line if you will based on the current capital intensity and that would change if obviously the business changed If it is built to bend it is lower certain components are higher if you will.
We have our President of Seating here how fights this battle every single day in the marketplace Ray Scott.
Ray what are your thoughts on Chris’s question regarding margins? Let me answer it this way well I don’t think we’ve ever been in a better position than where we’re at today.
We’ve really done a great job of differentiating ourselves from our competitors and if you look at what we've built when our experience and our knowledge now with the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa Guildford Textile and our number one position with [indiscernible] we stand alone.
And so where we’re at is being able to differentiate ourselves to our customers allowing them to really expand the envelope of design where they can differentiate their products and we can drive value not only to Lear but to our customers but also in I think just as importantly to our shareholders.
So we’re in a great position.
We continue to stay focused on and we’re continuing to focus on the margin but I think just as importantly really put ourselves in a position where we are different from anyone of our competitors out there which will help our customers and help our shareholders.
That’s great but I guess just to confirm as volumes increase it is not like we have to add incremental capacity and so the businesses should continue to operate as it is going forward if volumes remain strong meaning you talked about being in a good position there is not much that would change if we continue to see strong volumes? No.
We have been adding capacity as we have been growing the sales there Chris.
So our capital spending profile and utilization would be consistent.
I don’t really see Ray do you see anything changing? No I don’t see anything changing.
Does that answer your question Chris? Yes great results guys.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Galves.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Great job in the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Can you remind us of your content opportunities if plug in hybrid or full AV adoption rates or production increases in the future can you talk about kind of what the typical electrical content is in a vehicle like that versus the traditional vehicle and are you seeing any kind of uptick in the bidding activity over the last year or two? Yes I think this is another great question for Frank Orsini our President of our Electrical Division.
Yes so I would tell you that if you want to think of it in terms of a traditional architecture versus a hybrid or a high power architecture there are two incremental steps if you go to a hybrid system you definitely see an uptick in terms of sales and content for vehicle.
But the real content is driven by fully electric vehicle where you could actually see the architecture doubling in terms of size.
So it varies by the care and it varies by the particular application because hybrid you can get there with certain technologies but if you go full electric with battery charging and cord sets and things of that nature you could be looking at doubling the standard cost of architecture.
Okay.
Got it and the bidding activity are you seeing any change in over the last year or so in terms of automakers getting more serious about full electrics? It is consistent we are working with all the automakers all over the world.
There isn’t a car company that we don’t have an active project with.
So everyone is still considering it as a potential market in the future and something we’re still actively involved with.
Okay.
Got it and then on the cash deployment just kind of summarizing your comments like your $500 million to $600 million below your leverage target and it looks like you are maybe $600 million or $700 million above your liquidity requirements when do you expect to start deploying some of that excess capital above and beyond free cash flow which is what you’ve been returning recently? Yes we have been returning it and we will continue to return it.
For us first and foremost we look to invest in the business.
At any given time we have anywhere from 10 to 15 projects that we are looking at or are potential acquisition targets that we’re discussing investments in.
And ultimately we would like to invest in the business because we believe that is the best return and the same [indiscernible] year-to-date I think we've returned a significant portion of our free cash flow to the shareholders through a combination of share repurchase and dividend and we expect that to continue.
So for us is having that balance strategy of having a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit metrics looking for investments like Eagle Ottawa which really differentiates us or Autonet and then ultimately also balancing that with shareholder returns and that combination has created I think the really nice balance and also driven the stock price as well.
Okay thanks a lot guys I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
A couple data points would be helpful just to understand some of the components of the earnings bridge can you actually confirm the magnitude of the raw material tailwind and also the effect of FX on EBIT in the segments? On the revenue side I’m assuming that FX is like a $270 million niche negative on Seating and may be $100 million on Electrical but may be you can just talk a bit on the EBIT effect of that.
I think you are pretty close on the sales dollar impact of foreign exchange.
The margin profile in Seating given the fact that the main currency impact is Euro based and the margin profile of our European business is generally lower than the margin profile of the Seating business.
As a whole the impact of that is going to be a bit of a tailwind on the overall Seating margin as a result of that probably 20 basis points or so associated with this Seating margin improvement would be due to just the impact of that.
Okay.
The Volkswagen Rod are really profitable in Europe I can differentiate Lear in many cases from other suppliers.
The profile of Electrical is actually more profitable in our European segment overall is more profitable Lear Corporation's total operating margin.
So it's the difference a little bit different profile between Seating and Electrical but overall it obviously has a negative impact on OI.
And what was the raw material benefit? Probably pretty equal to 10 20 basis points on raw material in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
In mostly in the Seating business since there is… Yes that’s the number for it.
Yes.
Okay okay and any color on how the acquisition of Eagle affected EBIT in the quarter? It was consistent with what we said running a little bit harder on the integration savings.
It’s been a great acquisition and they are couple times to the bottom line or to the margin profile.
It’s been a great asset Rod.
And then just kind of higher level just your performance and commentary is making people feel pretty optimistic about the upside to margins versus historical expectations of may be 7% that is Seating and mid 13s in Electrical just given that you have operating leverage and presumably some opportunity for South America to improve and Canada restructuring and some other things is that is that sort of what you want people to sort of leave with the coming out of this call and any color lastly on the acquisition pipeline? Yes we’re comfortable with the margin profile of the business as it stands today Rod.
In any given quarter there is thousands and thousands of input that could have an impact on attempt this way and attempt that way in any given time things are moving up and down.
But overall the business is performing Lear Corporation as we would expect both of these segments are pretty much where we would expect them to perform while return that could be some bit peer in a bot there but overall they are where they need to be.
As far as the acquisition targets looking really the acquisition focus has changed somewhat.
We think Seating is pretty well set as far as its component capabilities.
It is very uniquely positioned with lot of fabric coupled with our selling capabilities and volume structures I think puts us in a really position to compete their on a logical [indiscernible] look for intellectual properties.
So may be things that don’t necessarily come in with a lot of business but things that could really help us as we look to penetrate and leverage our existing capabilities.
So that’s where the primary focus of it has been.
Great thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Langan.
Your line is open.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thanks.
Follow up on the commodity question I mean outside of copper I mean what is the hedging that you have or the pass-through protection that you have on other commodities? I think two main ones one would be on the steel side necessarily a pass-through but of all the steel that we buy about 50% of that buy is directed by our suppliers but 35% of the overall steel buy is purchased in some type of fabricated component from a supply base and then the remaining 15% is a direct coiled steel buy by us and that would be the part that would be subject to fluctuations in pricing.
And then the other one would be on the the leather buy with respect to we’ve bought Eagle Ottawa which significantly increased that leather by about 50% of that buy is subject to some indexing agreement with the customer and about half of that is subject to commercial discussions coincident with discussions on productivity et cetera.
Okay got it alright and cash flow has been a extremely good any color on what your cash tax rate is today and given your NOL how long you could still benefit from both cash taxes [indiscernible].
Our cash tax rate is approximately 20%.
I think given our NOLs and the life span of that NOLs I would anticipate I would not anticipate a major change in that in the near future.
Okay great and then just one last question any color on the split and assembly and component in the Seating business? I mean just any color there because I understand someplace while lower margins are a little bit higher where do they stand today and…? Well again we do everything based on return on investment.
For us the just in time business is great business even if it is just built to print because the capital utilization is lower.
For us just in time business on the assembly side is really good business when it is in the mid single digit type margin profile.
The flip side is certain components we need to be in a high single digit like home and structures.
Now all the components are providing returns in excess of their cost to capital perhaps other than may be North American Structure business which has been challenged with some pricing and restructuring that we need to get done.
As far as split Jeff do you have the split that we've disclosed that.
Yes of the on the Seat side if you look at it in the context of gross sales or total sales because a lot of the sales in your company but if you look at it in the context of the gross basis then just business is about two thirds of the business net offs about 10% trend given the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa was about 20 and then the remainder will be on the form side.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
I’ve got two questions first you have been talking a lot about the growth opportunities in Electrical but if we actually look at the quarter Seating outpaced Electrical in terms of revenue growth.
Is that just sort of temporary or acquisition related where they are just kind of program things or you kind of continuing to evolve your focus towards higher margin business that actually might mean was slow revenue growth? Yes.
And so how should we then think about it as we kind of going into next year sort of the growth in the Electrical versus the margin trade off.
Also talk next year Brian.
Okay and in terms of margins given what you said on incremental margins is there any where do you see an upper bound of margins if any? We’re pretty happy with the margin profile of the business currently.
Okay and you’ve talked in the past about you’re happy with some Seating or Electrical business as long as it’s higher than your cost of capitals for that segment which seemed to imply kind of a limit on margins or that you might be growing revenue good ROIC but lower margin we didn’t see any of that this quarter is that something you’ve kind of moved away from or? No we’re consistent with our approach to the market.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
Just one big picture one and then maybe one housekeeping in light of some of the stuff coming out of the Volkswagen and then asking for some supplier savings have any of those conversations taken plus thus far and if so sort of what is the tone of those conversations? No we really haven’t we’re not involved in any way with the direct impact on those components.
We’re not I don’t think we have a whole lot of any exposure to the diesels especially in North America.
We have not had any let’s say conversations that are not normal course.
As far as productivity we’re always in discussion with our customers on ways that we can help them reach their targets from a cost standpoint but there has been nothing specifically from Volkswagen related to their current issues with the diesels? Okay.
Good and then just again sort of housekeeping and the guidance depreciation and amortization looks like you’re saying 365 for the year but I think you’ve only done if I may ask 257 year-to-date so it is a pretty big step up in the fourth quarter is there something going on there or? May be a bit of conservatism we do have to step up in capital spending in the fourth spending but despite cash conservative.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Congrats.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tamberrino.
Your line is open.
Yes hey thanks.
Maybe just one real quick on pricing in China there has been some top line headwinds for the OEMs there.
Have you seen any of that pressure really flowing through to you or within your negotiations there? Net net anything that is in normal course it has all been the same.
I mean our responsibility as a tier 1 with like four integration capabilities is to give solutions to our customers.
Now we are always in discussions with how we can take cost out improve efficiencies in the supply chain and in the designs for that matter.
But I don’t see anything that nothing has come that is unusual as related to the volume changes.
Thank you.
That is it from us.
You’re welcome.
Our final question comes from the line of [Parish James].
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to followup quickly on the discussion on EVs and hybrids a couple of questions here.
First what is management’s view on long-term EV penetration assuming that comes up a lot in management and Board meetings? And then second the Autonet acquisition is there any reason to think that deck is even more important in an EV car than in an internal combustion or a hybrid car? Thanks.
Well I know we’re assuming a growth rate of around 3% to 5% which is I think consistent or maybe a tad lower than what you will hear from a lot of the firms that forecast.
We’re seeing probably more opportunity for these vehicles coming out of China.
While all car companies are working on active programs and are pushing this technologies a way to meet their regulatory requirements on cap pay and CO2 emissions.
As far as the complexity of a vehicle I think traditional powertrain vehicles are becoming incredibly complex as we’re looking for more signal management to help improve their performance as it relates to CO2 emissions and all of them are looking for ways to update their operating systems over the era.
So I really think that both incredibly complicated.
Got it thank you.
You’re welcome.
Well with that that wraps up the Q&amp;A portion of the call and I think who remains our largely – our vote for us and I want to thank all of you at Lear Corporation through your extreme hard work and dedication results like this do not happen without hard work and team work and I want to thank all of you for another excellent quarter.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] John Trythall Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Okay thanks Angel.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
Our press release was filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the presentation for our call is posted on our website lear.com to the Investor Relations link.
Today’s presenters are Matt Simoncini President and CEO and Jeff Vanneste Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us in the room are several other members of Lear’s leadership team.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that during the call we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Some of the factors that could impact our future results are described in the slide titled Investor Information at the beginning of the presentation.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information regarding these measures can be found in the slides labeled Non-GAAP Financial Information at the end of the presentation.
Slide 3 shows the agenda for today’s review.
Following the formal presentation we will be happy to take your questions.
Now please turn to Slide 5 and I will turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks John.
Lear continued its positive momentum in the fourth quarter with strong sales growth and record core operating earnings.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $4.7 billion up 4% from a year ago and excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales grew 11%.
Core operating earnings increased 28% to $359 million and margins were higher in both our business segments.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 41% to $3.20 per share.
We continue to return cash to shareholders and I will be providing more detail on our share repurchases later in the presentation.
Slide 6 highlights our financial performance for the full year.
Sales were a record $18.2 billion up 3% from a year ago.
And excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales grew by 11% significantly higher than the 2% increase in global production.
Core operating earnings increased 25% to $1.31 billion and margins were higher in both our business segments.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 33% to $10.85 per share reflecting our strong operating performance and the benefit of our share repurchase program.
2015 marked the sixth consecutive year of strong cash flow generation.
And during this timeframe Lear has generated approximately $3 billion of free cash flow.
Lear was formally upgraded to an investment grade credit rating reflecting our strong balance sheet consistent cash flow generation and improved operating margins.
Slide 7 shows vehicle production in our key markets for the fourth quarter and full year.
In the fourth quarter 22.8 million vehicles were produced globally up 4% from 2014.
For the full year global vehicle production was a record 86.9 million units up 2% from 2014.
Production increased in all our major markets for both the quarter and full year.
Slide 8 shows our reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2015.
In the fourth quarter pre-tax income before equity income interest and other expense was $338 million up $81 million from a year ago.
And for the full year pre-tax income before equity income interest and other expense was $1.187 billion up $258 million from 2014.
Equity income was $18 million in the fourth quarter and $50 million for the full year with the increase in both periods primarily reflecting higher profitability at our joint ventures in China.
Interest expense was $20 million in the fourth quarter consistent with last year.
And interest expense was $87 million for the full year up $19 million reflecting debt incurred to finance the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa.
Other expense was $8 million in the fourth quarter and $69 million for the full year both lower than the prior year primarily reflecting lower foreign exchange impacts.
Net income attributable to Lear was $235 million in the fourth quarter and $746 million for the full year.
In 2014 the fourth quarter and full year reported net income benefited from one-time tax benefits totaling $97 million and $111 million respectively.
Slide 9 shows the impact of non-operating items on our fourth quarter results.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $20 million of restructuring costs primarily related to census actions.
Excluding the impact of these items we had core operating earnings of $359 million up $79 million from 2014.
The increase in earnings reflects increased production on key platforms the benefit of new business the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa and favorable operating performance.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items net income attributable to Lear in the fourth quarter was $245 million and diluted earnings per share was $3.20 up 41% from 2014.
Slide 10 provides the summary of free cash flow which was $427 million in the fourth quarter and $831 million for the full year.
Cash flow improved from our prior guidance primarily reflecting higher earnings strong cash conversion the timing of capital expenditures and cash restructuring costs.
Slide 11 shows our adjusted margins in the fourth quarter.
Total company adjusted margin was 7.6% up 140 basis points from a year ago.
In Seating sales of $3.7 billion increased 7% from last year with adjusted earnings of $279 million up $76 million or 37%.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales increased by 13% reflecting the acquisition of Eagle Ottawa improved production on key platforms and the addition of new business.
Adjusted Seating margins were 7.6% up 170 basis points from a year ago.
And the increase in margins primarily reflects the strong sales growth including the impact of the Eagle Ottawa acquisition and favorable operating performance.
In electrical sales of $1 billion were down 5% from last year.
But excluding the impact of foreign exchange sales were up 4% primarily reflecting improved production on key platforms and the addition of new business.
Adjusted electrical margins improved to 14.1% up 80 basis points from a year ago reflecting strong operating performance and the benefit of new business.
Slide 12 highlights our earnings growth trend.
Since 2010 our operating earnings have increased at a 16% compounded annual growth rate.
And over the last three years our compounded growth rate was even faster at 20%.
During both periods our earnings growth rate was double the peer group average and over the last three years our earnings have grown faster than any of our direct competitors.
Over the last five years we have doubled our operating earnings and increased our operating margin from 5.2% to 7.2%.
Slide 13 provides a summary of the growth in our non-consolidated joint ventures.
The vast majority of these JVs are located in China with key customers as our partners.
These relationships provide unique growth opportunities.
In 2015 we had $2.3 billion in sales at our non-consolidated joint ventures which is about double our sales of $1.2 billion in 2010.
Our equity earnings at these JVs also doubled from $24 million in 2010 to $50 million last year.
We expect these JVs to continue to grow faster than the market and exceed $3 billion in sales by 2018 based on our 3-year non-consolidated sales backlog of $700 million.
These joint ventures have become a significant part of our business in Asia and are a meaningful component of our earnings.
Slide 14 highlights our track record of strong cash generation.
The ability to generate free cash flow is the hallmark of Lear.
And as I mentioned previously we have generated approximately $3 billion in cash flow since the beginning of 2010.
Our free cash flow yield of 11% is among the highest in the automotive sector and greater than our direct competitors.
Slide 15 provides a snapshot of our cash debt and pension and OPEB obligations.
We have a very cost-effective capital structure with low borrowing costs and no significant debt maturities for the next 5 years.
At the end of 2015 we had approximately $1.2 billion of cash and total liquidity of approximately $2.4 billion.
Our unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities are $339 million as of December 31 2015 which is down from a year ago.
Substantially all of the U.S.
plans are frozen or at close locations with no future benefit accruals.
We are committed to maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet with sufficient liquidity and investment grade credit metrics.
This strong capital structure provides Lear with significant financial resources and flexibility which will allow us to invest in our business and drive profitable growth.
Slide 16 provides an update on our share repurchase program.
In 2015 we repurchased 4.4 million shares for a total of $487 million including $104 million in the fourth quarter.
Since initiating the share repurchase program in 2011 we repurchased 35.2 million shares for a total of $2.4 billion.
And including dividends total cash returned to shareholders over the same time period is $2.7 billion.
Our share repurchases represent a reduction of approximately 34% of our shares outstanding at the time we began the program.
And the average price paid to repurchase shares over the life of the program is about $68 per share.
At the end of 2015 we have remaining share repurchase authorization of $513 million which expires on December 31 2017.
Slide 18 highlights our 2016 financial guidance.
We are reconfirming our guidance which includes sales and earnings growth and strong cash flow generation.
Our sales are projected to grow and be in the range of $18.5 billion to $19 billion.
Core operating earnings are projected to be in the range of $1.35 billion to $1.4 billion and free cash flow is expected to be approximately $800 million.
Slide 19 shows our industry production assumptions by major markets for 2016 as compared to 2015.
Global industry production is forecasted to grow by 3% to 89.7 million units in 2016.
Our 2016 financial outlook is based on an average euro assumption of $1.10 per euro which is down 1% from 2015.
Slide 20 shows our financial outlook for 2016 which as I mentioned is unchanged from the guidance that we provided on January 12.
Slide 21 shows our revenue walk for 2016.
Our backlog for 2016 is approximately $800 million.
Volume and mix is expected to increase revenue by an additional $400 million.
Sales in 2016 are being negatively impacted by weakened foreign currencies primarily related to the euro lower commodities and pricing.
Now I will turn it over to Matt for some final comments.
Great.
Nice job Jeff.
Thank you.
In summary we continued our positive momentum in 2015 achieving continued sales growth record earnings and margin improvement in both business segments.
Our unique component capabilities in seating allows us to differentiate our seats with unique designs and highest level of quality and craftsmanship at the lowest possible cost.
In electrical we are well positioned to capitalize on trends for increased content and connectivity.
Given our strong competitive position and unique capabilities in both our product segments we are confident our business will continue to perform well.
In short we are in the best competitive position in our history.
Now we would like to take your calls.
Hi John you are on mute.
Sure.
Thanks for taking my question.
Any color I mean seating margins here look quite strong I mean how – what is the trajectory here I mean do you think that got even higher than mid-17 or what is the – or is it just an unusual...? Well we will make a meaningful improvement in the margins in 2016.
It really comes down to the mix of the components because each one of them kind of has its own financial footprint if you will.
Certain of the sub-components like leather and the structures and mechanisms command a higher margin because it’s a little bit more capital and engineering intensity if you will.
So from our standpoint it depends a little bit on the mix.
But yes the margins can continue to improve in that segment and we would expect them to improve in 2016.
But your full year comment for mid-7% margins for this year were kind of what you expect? Yes.
Right.
And can you just give a quick reminder of what your – your cash flow is extremely strong you have a great free cash flow yield what is your sort of position on NOLs and what is your effective cash tax rate now? Well the effective tax rate for 2015 ended up to be approximately 27%.
I think as you look forward on that we feel that given the mix of earnings we will probably be in the 28% going forward.
That’s really subjective to the mix of earnings.
I think on the cash tax rate for the ‘15 I think we are in the high-teens I think 19% is where we ended.
And I think going forward we would see that given our tax attributes which are well North of $900 million in total at the end of 2015 the cash tax rate would be in that 20% range for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
And one last question I mean the shares has been down quite a bit year-to-date I mean how are you thinking about buyback versus M&amp;A is that something you may accelerate at this point? I think we have the ability with our balance sheet to be both.
I mean right now obviously with the pullback in our stock price I think it’s a great investment and I think it is undervalued.
And I do believe we will be opportunistic if you will in our buyback program once we clear the blackout period which is not for a few more weeks until we get the – after we get our 10-K filed.
But having the type of capital structure and liquidity profile that we have allows us to do both.
And right now quite frankly I think Lear is a great buy.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for taking the question.
I think as we look out over the course of the next 2 years Matt how should we think about the margin structure developing on the electrical side of the business do you see room for further scope in the margins or are we doing as well as we can right now? I never want to say we are doing as well as we can.
I think there is always the opportunity to do better and take costs out where we are at right now running at about approximately 14% margins.
We have a great return on our invested capital in that space.
And it’s that balance will allow us to continue to grow at an accelerated pace.
Could we see improvements we could.
Right now I am happy of 14% and I believe that’s a nice balance if you will.
But as we get even larger that will give us a chance to possibly leverage our fixed infrastructure around the world both from an engineering standpoint but also from brick-and-mortar.
So yes could it go higher? It could.
But right now we are guiding to around 14%.
If we look at that business over the course of the next 5 years hybridization will continue to grow as a percent of the overall population I would imagine that’s a favorable factor for you.
Should we anticipate that the pace of M&amp;A should accelerate over the next 2 years to 3 years in the electrical side of the business or is it just a function of opportunism? No I think it’s both.
There is always an asset that may come available that we were not aware of or maybe a private concern that the ownership group decides to maybe exit or diversify their holdings and that’s the opportunistic side of it.
From our standpoint though we are out looking actively to increase our capabilities and our focus largely is on increasing the capabilities in software and the ability to move data from outside the vehicle to the vehicle and then once in the vehicle around the vehicle and cybersecurity and being able to translate the different data domains if you will.
So it’s about capabilities.
It’s about intellectual property as well as growth.
And so I don’t think we are just sitting back waiting for something to come available.
I think we are actively out there looking for the right asset at the right strategic fit at the right price.
And I do think the pace in that segment will pick up.
Thanks Matt.
Appreciate it.
Hey guys.
Can you hear me now? Yes we can hear you Murph.
Sorry about that.
It seems to be confusion with the operator.
Just first question for you Jeff.
You definitely are in a blackout period and you came buyback shares right now sort of from the end of the year to where we are right now to when you file is that correct? And if that is correct could you consider putting sort of a program in place so that you can buy through blackout periods? We could obviously put something in place that would allow us to buy through the blackout period.
Our blackout period right now will extend through a couple of days after we file the K which we anticipate doing obviously in conjunction with the SEC timing for that.
But it’s certainly something that we could consider to eliminate the downtime associated with the blackout period.
And you could just put a simple grade in place so you would be somewhat price sensitive right? Right.
Okay.
Matt just a question that we are getting from a lot of people right now and obviously there is a lot of concern in the market I disagree with this but there is this concern in the market that we might be facing a downturn in the near term.
God forbid that did happen it doesn’t seem logical but if it did happen can you just kind of explain maybe your readiness to deal with that and what kind of variability you have in your cost structure? And what you would do to react to that? Well we are not seeing it either John.
Right now we have seen steady growth in the releases and the releases although be it early are very consistent to the guidance.
I would say a couple of things to that point.
One overall the business is much more balanced by product segment by customer mix by platform mix and by geography.
So when one market is down we have had strength in other markets.
Europe is making a nice recovery.
And in North America itself we have had a nice steady growth rate.
So we haven’t had the spike or the bubble that we have seen in other kind of boom and bust periods.
As far as our ability to maybe withstand a correction or a market adjustment if you will it starts with our capital structure and liquidity profile where when that happens it means that in many cases businesses and assets and programs are available as others struggle to put the investment forward that’s going to be required.
So it starts with liquidity and capital.
As far as variable cost structure one of the hallmarks of Lear is our ability to adjust our variable structure to address market corrections and take cost out.
And we are in a never-ending even when sales are increasing a never-ending search for cost reductions and efficiencies improvements whether it’s restructuring or just day-to-day efficiency gains at our 200 or so manufacturing operations.
When we talk about the variable cost structure we are depending upon which car line and which market is down we think the downward conversion is anywhere from 15% to 20% and then we try to carve into that based on restructuring and other actions to help mitigate the downturn.
Again though we are not seeing it.
The macros tell us it’s not there.
Jobs wages inflation interest rates oil being down actually helps this industry.
So from our standpoint the macros tell us we are still in the middle of a good run.
Yes I agree.
Just lastly on the Seating side I mean obviously there has been a lot of upward pressure which is great on margins there.
I mean how much of this is Eagle Ottawa and how much more opportunity is there with Eagle Ottawa to push that business both on the revenue side but maybe more importantly on the margin side because of mix? Well I would say about a third of it was Eagle Ottawa and the ability to kind of use their business to up-sell and get synergies from the combined design staffs and also having them help us in our leather business that we had.
So there has been an improvement with the combination no doubt and it’s been an outstanding acquisition for us not just because of the financial contributions that it’s making but because it allows us to uniquely position ourselves to provide a craftsmanship – our level of craftsmanship that is not possible by our competitors because we are in the design studios earlier.
And when you combine that with our ability to manufacture the seat covers through cutting and sewing operations combining it with lamination and film and the structures we are able to provide a unique feat at the highest possible level of quality and craftsmanship at the lowest cost.
So I think we are just scratching the surface of what that segment can be.
More and more you are going to be hearing about the Lear’s craftsmanship initiative we call it crafted by Lear.
And I think it uniquely positions us in the right segment of the seat business.
Really great results.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Richard.
You are welcome.
Are you at all more heavily weighted one way or the other with respect to passenger trucks versus passenger cars in the United States? I think we are pretty balanced.
I mean we have the large GM platform from the large full-size pickup truck but I think that’s about it.
We have some electrical content on the F150 but we don’t have the seats on that program and we don’t have the Chrysler ramp.
So we have got about a third of the pickup truck market in North America.
The rest is larger pass cars.
We are hearing from outside of the sector that some businesses obviously having some difficulties especially in markets like Texas where you have got a lot of folks laid off because of oil and that means potentially fewer trucks purchased.
But on the other hand we have got very low gasoline prices which could offset that in other markets.
Are you seeing any kind of dynamic going on there between those things? We are making and I think GM is making as many as they can I think all three automakers are doing well in that sub-segments.
So no we haven’t seen it because a lot of times with the pickup trucks they become almost like a lifestyle choice.
But before they were work vehicles tied to housing starts and maybe oil what we are seeing is actually oil being down helps that segment overall because there is a vast majority of these vehicles that get sold as lifestyle vehicles.
People just like the larger vehicles and the pickup truck type brand and large SUVs which are built off the same platforms especially now that I think I don’t know what the breakdown is but a lot of these vehicles have double rows of seats two rows of seats even on a pickup truck.
So no we are not seeing that.
Okay good.
And then over in China the JVs that you pointed out this morning are becoming a much more significant part of the bottom line earnings.
The SUV market over there has just been fantastic SUV and crossovers.
It’s the small car side that really had the issues this year.
But then we have got a nice boost from the tax incentives that the government put out for the 1.6-liter equipped vehicles in smaller.
And it looks like you had a nice pickup in that region in the fourth quarter.
Are you more on passenger car over there than you are in the crossover segments? No we reflect the market overall.
There is probably more balance in that segment than anywhere else.
We have a nice mix of what we call partner-type vehicles meaning the JVs that have foreign partners but we also are well represented on the domestic brands.
We have a nice mix of crossover probably more than SUVs I don’t know if there is a true SUV over there per se.
To me they all look like crossovers because we are on car platforms minivans and pass cars.
Now it’s pretty well-balanced.
So whatever segment wins product segment wins over there I think we will be the beneficiary of.
Okay great.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Hi good morning everybody.
Matt just had a question about pricing with the OEMs.
We are looking at your margin performance every quarter is pricing cyclical? Pricing has been difficult and it will remain difficult.
No not difficult is it cyclical? Sorry.
Is there a cyclical element? Yes.
There is and I would tell you it goes like this in good times the demands are greater.
Probably the only relief we saw Adam in pricing is was in the ‘08 ‘09 timeframe as volumes came down.
Now the good news about it is that the customers are and as you know and you pointed out in a very price sensitive product.
And with us and Lear controlling so much of the design and the sub-tier components we are in a unique position to be able to meet a lot of those cost reduction targets without attacking the margins without just lowering our prices.
And more and more that’s the solution that car companies are going to.
But yes it is cyclical.
In good times they ask for more.
And when there is a pullback I think they stand down a little bit.
So it’s not pro-cyclical then you are kind of describing where it’s...? Yes.
As times gets worst they ask for more.
It’s the opposite.
Okay alright.
Because – I just wanted to know if there was some kind of – if there was a point in the shoulder period when say some of your big big customers are doing – would historically do zero percent margins or doing margins closer to Porsche.
And if that starts to move the other way whether there is that temporary period at the shoulder where you kind of get a bit of intensity before you get the relief towards the bottom I don’t want to over analyze it.
I have seen it.
I mean there is – there has been and there is this year a huge cost reduction targets.
But I think everybody is looking towards more of an engineered solution if you will than just off the top price downs.
For us in a strange way Adam it’s actually a competitive advantage because we control so much of the supply chain and have the ability to design costs out.
I think we can provide some unique solutions that can get the customer there in a way that others can’t.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Joe.
Just following-up on John’s question earlier with Eagle Ottawa can you give us an update on how those synergies that you originally planned for came in versus that plan and maybe how much is left or if there is any more to do as we think about ‘16? Yes.
We came in a little bit hot.
We were able to I think execute a little bit faster than we originally anticipated.
And it was a different type of synergies than we would normally see.
And that normally we would kind of consolidate the administration centers.
In this particular case or the management teams that was an outstanding and is an outstanding management team.
We kept them in whole.
And what they were able to execute was really helping us run our leather business and which we turned over to them.
There has been some of back office savings as you would expect as we consolidate shared service centers and whatnot in some locations.
So I think we were talking about a number of 15 to 20.
Where we were more than halfway through I would say probably three quarters of those synergies were achieved through the first 12 months.
Okay.
And then – that’s helpful.
And then just sticking with leather I mean one of the other I guess fears that we are hearing out there is just on the luxury side and maybe a little bit of potential slowdown or rollover.
Are you seeing anything as it relates to leather seats which I would assume are more prevalent on higher end than on the mass volume are you seeing anything that would support or suggest...? Not at all in fact it’s the opposite.
Leather seats are continuing to penetrate in market.
And it’s coming to a point where at certain cases it’s almost hard to keep up with the folks that want premium leather in their vehicles.
And if you look at Europe as a case study when there was a pullback in the market the luxury brands actually were the ones that sustained their sales rates.
So no we haven’t seen anything like that.
We are having – we are selling everything that we possibly can.
The demand for premium leather which is the area that’s our expertise is outstanding.
Great.
Congrats again on the results.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Chris.
Matt if I just step back and look at seatings growth you are talking about a $700 million of backlog and ex-price downs that sort of implies that you should grow 3% above production.
And if we look over the last 2 years you have been growing at a number much more than that.
So it’s just this mix that you discussed in your revenue walk.
My question is really specifically around can you just give some more detail around how much of the mix benefit maybe from truck how much maybe from premium which you just really discussed about because obviously I think that people are looking at some of the December figures and 60% of sales now are light truck it’s almost up 20% year-over-year.
So it just seems like it could be a great medium-term trend for Lear.
And I am just trying to put some numbers around that? I think if you combine the two luxury and the trucks it’s probably around 30% of the uptake in the volume.
We are much more balanced now Chris than we had been historically because I think our sales largely represent the industry overall.
Why we are the leader in luxury and performance seating the reality is we sell as well seating to seat platforms and also AMV around the globe and including North America.
So from our standpoint yes it’s a bit of a tailwind on the trucks.
And you can look at the K2XX platform from if you will from IHS and see the growth there.
But it’s been more than that.
Luxury has done well in this market and it’s done well in Europe as well but our portfolio is pretty well balanced now.
So is it fair to say that when we just look at your backlog which you gave which is obviously strong going out for the next couple of years there is a something that we should continue to think about which is this 200 basis points to 300 basis points of mix whatever that number is maybe it’s not as great in ‘17 or ’18 but there is a component of luxury and truck mix which will benefit you guys…? Absolutely it can’t be because – it can’t be anything but that.
We - like I said we are the leader in luxury and performance and so when those cars sell we are going to get the tailwind with them.
So whether that’s the 3 series Jag Land Rover which we have a significant share of that business the C-Class Mercedes the Audis 4 and 6 and 7 platforms 5 just countless platforms even Maserati Ferrari although niche vehicles I mean we have their seats.
And so when they sell more we sell more.
Perfect.
Thanks so much guys.
Yes.
Good morning and thanks for taking the call.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the cash flow characteristics of the two segments we will get some insight with the K coming out but it looks like your holding CapEx spending around 2.7% 2.8% of sales despite bringing in Eagle Ottawa and vertically integrating further upstream into seating can give us the sense of how you kind of think about cash flow returns of the two segments how CapEx plays out how these acquisitions either improve or how the acquisitions could affect the free cash flow generation of each segment? Yes.
They are actually – it’s a great question Brian.
They are actually fairly similar.
CapEx in electrical as a percentage of sales is a little bit higher just because of the nature of the electronics business as opposed to let’s say the structures business and/or sewing and cutting and the leather business.
They are both generating high yield cash flows if you will as a relation to their EBIT or operating earnings.
From an acquisition standpoint I think your question was where would we deploy the cash more towards electrical or seating? Yes.
And also I think another competitor had made some upstream acquisitions that appeared to be more capital-intensive.
And was that kind of what you were thinking in terms of going more the Eagle Ottawa way than perhaps the metals end or are you still you open to metals? No.
I mean we are happy with our capabilities in the structures business and the recliners and the tracks.
Our focus really is to differentiate ourselves through craftsmanship because I think that’s something that the industry needs that the customers need that’s being asked for.
And that’s where we are putting our money.
It wasn’t really whether or not it’s more capital-intensive or not because overall we don’t see an acquisition changing the financial template or footprint of Lear Corporation.
So from our standpoint no that was not a concern.
And from electrical if we acquire an electrical I would imagine that would have a very similar cash yield if you will from the current business.
I can’t imagine that it would change it that it would change it in a material manner if you will.
And related suppliers typically run a positive working capital which is good in a downturn.
You generated working capital in other this year.
Just want to understand how much of that is working capital how much is other and how to think about the contribution from that both going forward and then to the hypotheticals earlier kind of a downturn? I think at the end of the year we did a nice job on the working capital side on inventory no major collection issues payments are pretty much on core.
So we did get a bit of a tailwind in ‘15 on working capital.
We wouldn’t see that template to dramatically change as we look outward.
Okay thank you.
You are welcome.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone and congrats.
Thanks Itay.
Just got maybe two kind of housekeeping questions.
One just hoping at a high level you can just kind of update us on your margins by regions.
Then also around how to think about the cadence of 2016 in terms of new business launches or margins relative to the cadence? Yes.
I would say that the margins in South America are very low if you mean with the bracket around them.
So they are not as the target margins if you will.
Europe and North America are target margins and consistent with the segment overall.
Asia is a tad higher if you will than the target margins.
So all segments are running pretty much as planned except for South America where we continue to incur losses although we have been able to mitigate the losses.
Our guidance does not assume that we return to profitability in that region this year.
The team down there has done an outstanding job of mitigating the losses but it’s still a very difficult environment but we are very profitable in Europe and performing consistent with the margins of both segments in that region.
Same goes true for North America and maybe just a tad higher than in Asia than the target margins.
That’s helpful.
And just on the cadence of the year is there anything unusual in 2016 versus....
No it’s normal seasonally.
The backlog comes in a tad heavier in the back half than it did in the front half.
But I would say it’s normal if you will seasonality.
There is nothing really peculiar about 2016 versus ‘15 normal seasonality I would say in the industry.
Perfect.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks so much guys.
You are welcome.
Hi good morning.
Hey Pat.
A number of my questions have been answered but one remaining one is can we just talk a little bit about the quoting environment.
It sounds like just given everything going on with one of your large competitors there is a little bit of a dead space I guess for 2 years but they have spoken to maybe an acceleration of re-quoting activity or not quoting activity but activity coming on I guess in the 2018 timeframe.
So is that – are you seeing kind of the mirror image of that for you guys like a big backlog opportunity over the next 2 years but more competitive as we look out just your view on that? No it’s been pretty steady.
I wouldn’t characterize it that way.
There is the normal cadence of business awards that come up.
We see this period right now.
It’s pretty consistent within past year as I have Ray Scott our President of Seating because I think you are alluding to Johnson Controls.
Ray have you seen any change in the quoting activity or is this [indiscernible] periods? No it’s pretty consistent with what we have seen over the past several years.
There is nothing – no major differences in our quoting patterns and what we have seen from our customers.
For us Patrick when we are quoting we put up high priority on profitable growth in making sure that we only take programs on that are priced appropriately.
And that has more of an impact I think than the cadence of the quoting activity if you will.
Got it.
And just can you remind us what’s the lead time on a program that’s up for bid today actually hitting your I guess backlog in revenue? Yes.
Normally it’s 2.5 to 3 years.
There is still a lot of open quoting going on in the third year of our backlog 2018.
If you look at ‘17 a year ago right the third year of the backlog a year ago that number has I think more than doubled.
And I would expect the same thing to happen this year in the third year.
So there is still open sourcing in 2018.
I would set that number to increase significantly by this time next year if you will.
But normally it’s 2.5 3 years lead time before a program goes in.
Every once in a while you get a short turnaround a 12-month turnaround or running change as they call in the industry but for the most part it’s that period.
Understood.
Okay thanks guys and congrats on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Angel do we have anybody else in the queue? So at this time probably who remains on the call are the Lear employees.
I know these type of results just don’t happen that they are a result of hard work long hours dedication and laser focused on efficiencies.
I want to thank all of you for your dedication.
We have had an outstanding year.
We are not done yet.
We are going to get after and get even better in 2016.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!