Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's First Quarter Conference Call.
I'm Dave DeSonier and with me today are the following:  Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Director of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl Glassman will provide operating highlights; then Dave will address our outlook for 2011; and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorder for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-looking Statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning and thank you all for participating in our call.
We were very encouraged to see higher market demand and sales growth during the first quarter.
As we reported yesterday first quarter sales increased 10% reflecting unit volume growth and raw material-related price inflation.
Earnings per year -- per share for the quarter were $0.30 unchanged from the first quarter of last year.
The earnings benefit from higher unit volume was offset by higher raw material cost as previously expected.
We continue to experience strong demand in several of our key businesses during the first quarter including Automotive and Office Furniture.
In contrast Store Fixtures volume declined versus the prior year as this business faced very difficult comparisons related to high levels of remodeling activity by large customers in the first quarter of 2010.
During the quarter we implemented price increases in response to rising commodity cost.
The magnitude of the price increases varied by product category and the timing generally lagged the cost inflation.
First quarter margins were compressed approximately 100 to 150 basis points due to the lag but should improve in subsequent quarters.
Our Intermarkets have stabilized and appeared to be gradually improving.
As a result we utilized a significant portion of our share purchase authorization during the first quarter and repurchased 5.4 million shares of our stock.
Under the current authorization we can purchase up to 10 million shares annually.
We also issued 1.8 million shares during the quarter through various employee benefit and stock purchase programs.
In February we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27 per share and extended to 40 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases.
At yesterday's closing price of $24.54 the current dividend yield is 4.4%.
We ended the first quarter with net debt to net capital at 27.5% which is below our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
No significant fixed-term debt matures until 2013 and we have over $450 million available under our existing bank facility.
Our operating folks continue to do an excellent job of closely managing working capital which reflects our focus on return optimization.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 14.3% of annualized sales.
For the quarter we generated operating cash of $47 million.
We expect operating cash for the full year of over $300 million which had once again comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
Capital expenditures should approximate $85 million for this year and dividends should require about $155 million.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return on a rolling 3-year basis to that of peer companies.
We target TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
To date for the 3-year period that will end on December 31 of 2011 we have generated TSR of 29% per year on average which ranks in the top half but not yet among the top 1/3 of the companies in the S&amp;P 500 index.
So we still have some work to do in order to reach our goal.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Karl? Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I will discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
First quarter sales in the Residential Furnishings segment grew 6% reflecting the combination of raw material-related price increases and modest unit volume growth.
In our U.S.
Spring business Innerspring unit volumes decreased 2% and Boxspring units grew 3% versus a strong first quarter of 2010.
In our Furniture Hardware business the unit volume increased slightly during the quarter.
The continued growth in this business is primarily due to ongoing strength and motion upholstery as consumers continue to favor seating with added functionality and comfort.
We believe our residential end markets have stabilized and while recovery may continue to be somewhat choppy we are expecting modest overall demand improvements during 2011.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Residential Furnishings segment decreased during the quarter as unit volume growth was more than offset by higher raw material costs and less income from building sales.
We have implemented price increases to recover the higher raw material cost.
However as expected there was a lag in the timing of the recovery and margins were temporarily compressed during the quarter.
The selling price increases vary by product line ranging from approximately 8% in bedding components to more than 20% in furniture hardware as flat rolled steel pricing has increased to a greater extent than rod and wire pricing.
We continue to closely monitor commodity trends.
And while certain of our input costs appear to have stabilized we will adjust pricing further if we believe sustained changes in cost have occurred.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment first quarter sales decreased 9% as lower fixture and display sales were partially offset by continued growth in Office Furniture components.
Sales in our Fixtures and Display business decreased approximately 20% versus a very strong first quarter of 2010 which included a high level of remodeling activity by some of our large value-oriented customers.
We continue to see convincing signs of improvement in the Office Furniture industry.
First quarter sales in our Office Components business grew approximately 20% reflecting both market recovery and new programs that have been awarded.
Our comparisons in this business are becoming more difficult as we anniversary share gains and early stages of market recovery in 2010.
EBIT in the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment was flat and EBIT margins improved versus first quarter of 2010.
The impact from lower sales was offset by a gain associated with the sale of a building.
First quarter sales in our Industrial Materials segment increased 19% reflecting steel-related price inflation and higher unit volumes in all major areas of the segment.
EBIT improved slightly but EBIT margins decreased versus first quarter of 2010.
The earnings benefit from higher sales was largely offset by higher raw material costs and the absence of a divestiture gain in the first quarter of last year.
Price increases have been implemented to recover the higher steel cost and as a result margin should improve in subsequent quarters.
In the Specialized Products segment we posted 28% sales growth from the first quarter reflecting continued strength in global automotive demand as well as growth in Machinery and Commercial Vehicle Products.
Higher sales and a reduction in the unusual cost led to increased EBIT and EBIT margins during the quarter.
These improvements were partially offset by higher raw material cost.
Automotive industry forecast continue to anticipate meaningful global production growth in 2011 even after considering the tragedy in Japan and its impact on the industry.
The industry's 2011 forecast for Asia has been lowered by approximately 1.3 million units but this volume is expected to be recovered in 2012.
Supply chain disruptions outside of Japan are expected to be resolved within the next few months.
And as a result full year 2011 production in North America and Europe is not expected to be significantly impacted.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
Given our solid first quarter results and our current view on inflation we increased full year guidance and now expect sales of approximately $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion.
This represents an increase of 4% to 13% versus 2010 and includes approximately 4% sales growth from inflation.
Based on the sales forecast we now project 2011 earnings of $1.25 to $1.50 per share.
We expect continued recovery in the economy and our end markets.
However we recognize that recovery can be choppy and have allowed for that potential with the lower end of our guidance range.
We are moving into the third step of our strategic plan which envisions long-term average growth of 4% to 5% per year.
For the next couple of years growth should exceed this level as our markets continue to recover.
Longer term we recognize the need to supplement the approximate 2% to 3% growth that our markets typically produce with other opportunities.
This additional growth should come from both new product innovation and development of new growth areas.
Some of our growth will likely occur through carefully screened acquisitions.
Beginning last fall we stepped up our solicitation activity and are beginning to see some new opportunities enter the pipeline.
These targets must meet stringent screening criteria including high confidence and value creation and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets.
Disciplined growth takes time so we are not expecting significant benefits from these efforts for a while.
And off script before I pass the microphone I'd like to mention that today we are celebrating Susan McCoy's 25th anniversary with the company.
She's such a dedicated partner to all of us and provides excellent investor relations service.
Thanks Susan for all you do and congratulations on this noteworthy milestone.
I know you didn't know I was going to say that.
And with those comments I'll now turn the call back to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we'll be glad to try to answer your question.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we again request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please re-enter the queue.
And we'll try to answer all the questions that you have.
Dan we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
This is Chad in sitting for Budd who's traveling this morning.
First of all let me just offer my congratulations on the quarter and also probably more importantly my congratulations to Susan and let me just say thank you for all the help that you've given us over the years.
It's much appreciated.
I guess my first question I mean given the magnitude of the beat at least relative to what Wall Street was looking for in Q1 a $0.075 increase to the midpoint of your full year guidance seems conservative to me.
First of all I guess is that a fair characterization and could you just give us some insight into some of the key puts and takes and your thinking in crafting that outlook? Chad this is Dave.
It could be conservative relative to that performance but again we do the best job we can to put together the forecast that come up from the bottom of our organizations from everyone of our profit centers who are in reasonably good communication with our customers and then we stir it up at the top here and come up with what we think is a reasonable range.
And we hope it is a little too conservative but it's our best guess.
And the comment I made about the lower end of the range is we have pretty good memories here and we have had times in the past where we started out of the gate very quickly to use an analogy only to wane in the back half of the race.
We're not necessarily anticipating that but we want to be able to encompass that should that occur.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And I guess Karl you had -- Innerspring units were down 2% in the quarter and Boxspring were up 3%.
I guess from your point of view what's your best guess on what the innerspring market did from the unit perspective in the first quarter? And explain whatever variance there is relative to what your performance was if there was? As you remember that the industry and Leggett is a large subset of the industry was up against some very very difficult comps and that the first quarter of 2010 was abnormally strong because of heavily -- heavy promotion activity.
So we were pretty satisfied to get through the first quarter with that negative 2% on units 3% up in Boxspring.
The 3% up in Boxspring I think is maybe a sign that the middle price points of the bedding industry starting to recover a little bit which is good news for all of us.
But in terms of the industry it's difficult -- our view of the industry is that innerspring mattresses was probably up 1% to 2%.
And as you see it -- the data [indiscernible] over the next few days obviously it will be tweaked up because the Specialty guys had another fantastic first quarter.
So from an Innerspring standpoint that 2% to 3% I think is our best guess of the industry and strengthened as the quarter went on March significantly stronger than January and February.
Okay and what -- maybe at a guidance midpoint what are you thinking innerspring units do for the year or maybe a range of expectations? When we started the year we were using expectation of 3.5% on innerspring or you call it innerspring mattresses.
We still feel strongly that that's a good number.
I guess just getting through that first tough -- first quarter comp was our biggest hurdle.
So we haven't changed our position on that.
Our next question comes from Mark Rupe of Longbow Research.
This is Leah Villalobos in for Mark this morning.
I'd also like to extend my congratulation to you on the quarter and to you Susan on your milestone.
We also certainly do appreciate all of the work that you do there.
If I could just get back to the bedding industry for a second and talk a little bit more about the performance we saw in International Springs.
I think you had a pretty easy comparison there but if you could talk a little bit more about that performance and what you saw in terms of units? And if there was multiple currency intact there? Again it's Karl.
It is an absolute mixed bag.
I'm going to give you units by region.
Canada was off about 8%.
It strengthened late in the quarter also but it was somewhat disappointing.
Latin America was extremely strong at 20% growth that signals growth in our Brazilian and Uruguayan businesses which we're very pleased about.
Europe was up over a remarkable 4% in units.
It was up significantly more than that in currency as there is a better mix of product there that the low end has been much more compressed than the high end.
The pocket coil volume has been extremely good in Europe and there was earlier selling price inflation in Europe than there was in North America.
Our Asian volume was off about 35%.
And that is our walking away from some very low margin business.
It's relatively small.
If we break it down in magnitude of absolute units Europe is obviously larger than any of the other regions.
So it was all over the board but we were certainly pleased with our International Spring and that the individuals that run those facilities are faced with the same raw material inflation issues that we are in the United States.
And their ability to have pricing discipline and pass-through with that inflation in a very difficult environment is commendable.
They've done a fabulous job.
Leah this is Matt.
I'll just add on your foreign exchange question.
Last year's first quarter versus this year's first quarter for the entire company not just bedding was only $3.4 million higher in sales last year's quarter versus this year's quarter due to currency.
So basically a benign effect in the first quarter.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
And then in terms of pricing in the Residential segment.
How much of the price increases did you actually realize in the first quarter -- and I understand that there are still some being implemented in the second quarter so how much kind of should we expect you to realize in the second quarter as well? Leah that 6% growth in Residential the majority of it was actually related directly to inflation.
But to your point the pricing increase the velocity increases as the quarter went on virtually all of that pricing was in place at the end of the quarter.
So we should be fully recovered as we enter the first day of the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
One the growth in Specialized was just outstanding specifically given the comparisons it was going up against.
Is this sort of pace sustainable for the year for these 3 businesses? You talked about Automotive a little bit I guess my question more is Machinery in the Commercial Vehicle Products.
Well Keith I think that comments from our business that as I said in the prepared remarks Offices it is going to be difficult for them to continue to grow 20% going forward.
Automotives is going to have its challenges from a second domestic -- I should say North American and European Automotives is going to have a little bit of a challenge in second quarter just because of the Japanese connectivity.
So but that volume will be pushed out to third and fourth but it will continue to grow.
The indexes all say that Automotive should grow about 10% in those markets.
So we feel really pretty good -- I need to correct myself it's 5% worldwide on Automotive.
And as it relates to Machinery that it was a good quarter but we expect that as our customers become more confident that we should see continued Machinery growth.
[indiscernible] That business performed very weakly in the first half.
I started to say terribly and I apologize for that but the performance the demand was really weak in the first half of 2010.
So we expect continued growth in Commercial Vehicle Products.
Keith this is Dave.
It goes without saying though the higher you get the more difficult it is to get even higher.
So that sustainability will continue to grow well but it gets harder and harder to do that obviously.
Inc.</strong> You mentioned Machinery should continue to be good.
Is that Machinery going to Bedding customers or what customer there? Primarily Bedding.
Inc.</strong> And within the Residential in production volumes what do they look like in the quarter versus last year or production rates I should say versus last year in U.S.
Spring and then the Furniture group? In terms of all internal production? Inc.</strong> Yes I mean did you ramp it up ramp it down how did it look versus last year? No it was pretty steady growth as the quarter progressed in both Furniture and Bedding.
Inc.</strong> And final question you Karl you made a comment that you thought that the boxspring units being up 3% was a sign or perhaps a sign of the middle-tier bedding coming back what would that number -- why would you come to that conclusion for that number? Because of the concentration of customers where boxsprings are continuing to be sold.
They tend to be middle price point promotional tends to be on with foundation anymore as our customers' de-speced [ph] over the last few years.
So as boxspring rise at a greater rate than mattresses I think that's a sign that the middle price points are starting to pick up some velocity.
And remember that the -- our foundation if you call it Adjustable Bed business has been incredibly strong.
That's part of the strength that you saw in the Specialty guys.
That business for us is up 50% in units in the first quarter.
That is volume albeit small.
It takes a little bit away from boxspring.
It's replacing the boxspring.
So boil that all together and it's the first sign that -- and obviously we hear that same thing from our bedding manufacturer and our retail customers.
Inc.</strong> And that's the adjustable basis that will be reported in the Residential division.
Yes they are.
Our next question comes from John Baugh of Stifel Nicolaus.
My questions are as follows: On the Residential Furniture side was there a gain by Leggett &amp; Platt in market share or some unusual customer or benefit or is this indicative of the overall motion and I guess to a lesser stationary category? I think the category continues to grow.
The furniture industry was also up against some pretty tough comps.
In the first quarter there's some promotional activity around that product line as you know John.
And the category just grows as the consumer continues to be more casual in their lifestyle.
And our content is much higher in a motion product than it is in the stationary products.
So those lifestyle trends which we expect to continue well into the future are good for us.
Great thanks.
And then I think you mentioned the 100 to 150 bps of lag in cost is that inclusive of the relationship with the scrap and rod? What is going on between scrap and rod? How did that play through the quarter? And how's that playing into April and how does that shape your forecast for the rest of the year? That 100 to 150 basis points is the collective steel overhang that we experienced during the quarter and Karl can comment on the spread.
In terms of the metal margin on scrap to rod it is -- it normalized actually late March 1st of April.
So we're back to those historic metal margins or spreads that they were terribly compressed in December and January and as the quarter went on that they normalized and we expect them to be at a normal if there is a normal in the steel industry anymore for the remainder of the year and it is embedded in our forecast.
And then lastly on the retail Store Fixtures.
I understand the tough comparison with the year prior.
What's your outlook for that business in units going forward? And I'm not necessarily thinking about '11 as I am with the glut of retail space in general threats of Internet sales continuing or is that just not a concern on your part in terms of longer-term volume trends? John the outlook for the year is a little questionable at this time.
You will remember and you made reference to the 2010 first quarter really was an anomaly.
But so we do expect 3Q in 2011 to be the strongest quarter as it more typically is.
I think that we think that the fixture demand may be a little soft for the year.
We gained some market share.
And it looks like the retailers are not as aggressive with value in it the oriented or the promotional retailers begin very very aggressive in the early part of last year.
We don't see that demand though we see maybe more normalized but possibly at a somewhat lower level.
But we're hearing significant optimism about 2012 so but we know that industry is volatile.
It's almost impossible to predict units to the other question that you had.
But it's so directly correlated to consumer confidence that we'll see.
There's just not a lot of visibility in that market.
I will say though that our people are doing a wonderful job performing in those businesses.
We have gained market share.
I think that the quality of our relationships with our customers are at all-time highs.
The manufacturing efficiency of our facilities.
We're really pleased to be in that Store Fixtures business.
Our last question comes from Robert Kelly of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Question on I guess the phasing and particularly in Residential Furnishings you had a tough comp in 1Q and an even tougher comp for 2Q do you expect units to be positive in the Res Furnishings category during 2Q? Bob slightly.
I would say that if you roll Furniture and Bedding together and from a unit perspective we would see somewhat of a repeat maybe a little bit stronger than 1Q from a comp perspective you'll see top line stronger than that because of the full impact of inflation.
LLC</strong> And if I recall last year you started to see the slowdown towards the end of 2Q is that correct? And was April and May your toughest comps of the year? And how do we think about just the year-over-year monthly comparisons? Actually what we saw was the first real disappointment we felt last year was around the Memorial Day sales holiday.
That's when we started to become a little bit concerned.
And then as we build -- and this is more of a bedding issue than a furniture issue as we were building to 4th of July there was a lot of skepticism.
So you're right it was a lack of follow-through after Memorial Day June compressed and then July not so good because 4th of July just didn't materialize.
LLC</strong> Understood.
And then just as far as the raw materials story you've been discussing for the past few quarters when you talk the inflation that you're planning to cover with the price increases that are going into effect during 2Q is that scrap in your Industrial Materials segment? Or are you still trying to cover the increases in rod that you're running through the other business? It's more of the downstream where scrap was recovered in part earlier in the first quarter.
Scrap moves first then it flows through the value chain moves in to rod and then wire.
So if you step back from the whole thing we've implemented 4 rounds of wire price increases.
Though we're pretty well recovered we are recovered on the scrap inflation on the downstream materials into wire and then into the fabricated elements of each product that that recovery got -- was achieved later in the quarter.
But for all intents and purposes we're recovered now.
Bob this is Dave.
Some of the most aggressive inflation we experienced in the flat rolled products master coils and slit coils.
So it was across the board on steel products that included flat rolled products.
Dave's right.
That's why the comment that our Furniture Hardware inflation was on a percentage basis was higher than on our Wire-related products because flat rolled moved faster and higher than inflation on the longer wire rod products.
And we actually expect that inflation to hold on for a longer period of time.
We may not be done yet on flat products.
We don't know.
We feel -- our stance is is that we're topping out in overall steel inflation and feel reasonably comfortable that we won't have to pass through anything else but boy visibility in steel is very difficult.
[Operator Instructions]  It appears there are no further question at this time.
Okay.
We'll say thank you and we'll speak to you in July.
Everybody have a good weekend.
This concludes today's teleconference you may now disconnect your line at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you Mr.
DeSonier.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me this morning are the following: our CEO and President Dave Haffner; the Chief Operating Officer Karl Glassman; our CFO Matt Flanigan; and our Staff VP of Investor Relations Susan McCoy.
The agenda for this morning's call is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we've made in today's press release.
Karl Glassman will then provide operating highlights.
Dave will address our outlook for the full year.
And finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and has copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
As we reported yesterday second quarter sales grew 8% versus the prior year from a combination of inflation currency exchange rates and higher trade sales from our steel mill.
Excluding these factors sales during the quarter were roughly flat with the prior year.
Unit volumes declined both year-over-year and sequentially in most of our major residential businesses reflecting continued uncertainty on the parts of consumers and choppiness in the broader global economies.
Store Fixtures volume also decrease versus the prior year as this business continued to face difficult comparisons related to high levels of remodeling activity by large customers last year in 2010.
The markets where we saw year-over-year growth during the quarter were Automotive Office Furniture components Power Foundations Machinery and Commercial Vehicle Products.
Earnings for the second quarter were $0.37 per share and included a $0.02 per share benefit from an unusual tax item.
In the second quarter of last year earnings were $0.34 per share.
Operationally we performed well during the quarter given the macro and market demand headwinds.
Gross profit dollars increased slightly versus second quarter of 2010 which was our strongest operational quarter last year.
Gross margin percentages for the quarter were diluted as typically occurs during inflationary periods when we raise selling prices to recover significant cost increases.
EBIT decreased year-over-year as a result of unusually high selling and administrative expense.
Several items led to the increase in SG&amp;A cost.
Some of those included: the pledge we made towards Joplin tornado relief efforts; professional fees including consulting services associated with growth projects; and trade show expense related to a biannual show that many of our businesses attend in Germany.
We continue to strive for annualize SG&amp;A costs at 10% of sales or less.
As expected earnings improved sequentially as a result of price increases we implemented late in the first quarter to recover high material costs.
Raw material costs have stabilized since the first quarter which has allowed pricing to catch up with the higher cost in most of our businesses.
During the quarter we bought back 2 million shares of our stock bringing our year-to-date repurchases to 7.4 million shares.
Under the current authorization we can purchase up to 10 million shares annually.
We also issued 900 000 shares during the quarter through various employee benefit and stock purchase programs.
Year-to-date issuance for these programs are at 2.7 million shares.
In May we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27 per share.
2011 marks our 40th consecutive year of annual dividend increases.
Out of all the S&amp;P 500 there are only 11 companies that have a longer string of annual increases than Leggett.
At yesterday's closing price of $22.10 the current dividend yield is 4.9%.
We ended the second quarter with net debt to net capital at 28.3% which is below our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
Our operating folks continue to closely monitor working capital levels.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 14.3% of annualized sales below our 15% target.
For the quarter we generated operating cash of $54 million.
We expect operating cash for the full year of over $300 million which should once again comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
Capital expenditures should approximate $85 million this year and dividends should require about $155 million.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return on a rolling 3-year basis to that of peer companies.
We target TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
To date for the 3-year period that will end on December 31 2011 we have generated TSR of 23% per year on average which is a top half performance.
While that is a very good shareholder return it does not place us in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 so we still have some work to do in order to achieve our goal.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who'll provide some operating highlights.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
Second quarter sales in the Residential Furnishings segment grew 2%.
Unit sales -- unit volume declined in nearly all of the segment's business units but this contraction was more than offset by raw material-related price increases and changes in currency exchange rates.
The only business within the segment that had meaningful unit growth was Power Foundations.
Those operations were up 46% during the quarter.
In our U.S.
Spring business innerspring unit volumes decreased 5% and boxspring units were down 3% during the quarter.
In our Furniture Hardware business second quarter unit volume decreased 12% versus the prior year.
Prior year comparisons continue to be difficult during the second quarter in both bedding and furniture as demand was relatively strong in 2010 through mid-year and then weakened substantially in the back half of the year.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Residential Furnishings segment decreased versus the prior year primarily from lower unit volume.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment second quarter sales decreased 2% as lower fixture and display sales were partially offset by continued growth in Office Furniture Components.
Sales in our Fixture and Display business decreased approximately 10% versus a very strong second quarter of 2010 which include a significant remodeling activity by some of our large value-oriented customers.
We continue to be very pleased with the performance of our Office Furniture Components business as that industry continues to show convincing signs of recovery.
Our second quarter sales in the business unit grew approximately 15% which is notable since we posted 20% growth in the second quarter of 2010.
Comparisons in this business become more difficult in the coming quarters.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment decreased versus second quarter of 2010 primarily from lower sales.
Second quarter sales in our Industrial Materials segment increased 18% reflecting steel-related price inflation and a higher trade sales from our steel mill.
Unit volumes decreased in both wire and tubing reflecting weakness in bedding furniture demand and also the second quarter disruption in Automotive production.
EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus second quarter of 2010 primarily due to lower unit volume in wire and tubing and higher raw material and transportation cost.
In the Specialized Products segment we posted 20% sales growth in the second quarter primarily reflecting continued strength in global automotive demand as well as growth in machinery and Commercial Vehicle Products.
Changes in currency exchange rates also added to our year-over-year sales growth during the quarter.
Higher sales led to increase EBIT during the quarter but EBIT margins contracted slightly as these gains were partially offset by higher raw material costs and currency impacts.
Automotive industry forecasts continue to anticipate meaningful global production growth in 2011 even with the impact from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
The current 2011 production forecast in North America and Europe has increased by approximately 1 million units in total compared to the forecast issued at the start of the year and the forecast for Asia has been reduced by roughly 1 million units since the earthquake.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Karl.
In light of the second quarter demand weaknesses we reduced the top end of our full year guidance and now expect sales of approximately $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion.
This represents an increase of 4% to 10% versus 2010 and includes approximately 4% sales growth from inflation.
Based on this forecast we now project 2011 earnings of between $1.25 and $1.40 per share.
We expect continued recovery in the economy and our end markets.
However we recognize that recovery can be choppy and has allowed for the potential with this revised guidance range.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we will be glad to try to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please reenter the queue and we'll try to answer all the questions you've got.
Diego we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark Rupe with Longbow Research.
This is actually Andy standing in for Rupe today.
My question is in terms of the demand in pricing throughout the quarter were there any surprises there kind of relative to what's in your internal expectations were for the quarter? Andy I don't think that there were any surprises as it relates to pricing.
We implemented those price increases across our businesses at various rates in the first quarter.
There weren't any surprises there.
I would say that the real surprise to us was demand softening.
We were more optimistic in April when we last publicly spoke.
Everything softened.
We were surprised.
We expect continued recovery.
We didn't expect the choppiness that we experienced from a macro perspective in the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is actually Chad filling in for Budd.
David your balance sheet remains under levered relative to your target capital structure and you have signaled a greater willingness to make acquisitions but we have yet to see any real movement.
I mean should we read that as perhaps there's a lack of opportunities that fit the fundamental operating criteria you're looking for? Or have there been businesses that maybe match the fundamental criteria but maybe not at the price that you'd like? And then I guess kind of a follow-on to that does the softening macro environment make you more hesitant to make a deal in the short term? Good question Chad.
There has been a bit more activity in the M&amp;A department.
There have been a couple -- so we continue to look for acquisitions.
There have been a couple of opportunities where expectations were higher than what we felt our shareholders should pay for and therefore did not go to closure.
There are some continued businesses that we are likely to acquire nothing of significant size at this point to report.
And as you know we comment on those after we make the acquisitions.
But I guess what I want to leave you Chad and you can relay this to Budd is that is we still believe that there are some good acquisitions to be had for the company.
And even though the market does tend to put a bit of a bias or more conservatism into our valuations I think that you should expect to see some acquisitions of between here and the end of the year.
Next we have Keith Hughes from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> I have a couple of questions.
On the Office Furniture business you referred to the tougher comparisons in the second half of the year looks like you're up 20% in the second half of '10.
What kind of growth rate are you looking at for the second half of '11 on top of that? Keith we would expect 10% to 15% growth because of the difficult comps that we feel like we're extremely well-placed.
There continues to be buoyancy in that market and we really feel good about our position.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then moving over to the acquisition the answer to the last question.
With the types of deals that you're in the ballpark for now are they more in a bolt-on size? Or would they be larger than that or potentially larger than that? Keith this is Dave again.
The ones that we are in diligence on are ones that we would include into existing businesses.
Inc.</strong> So there wouldn't be like a new segment or anything like that? Yes that's correct.
But as you know when we've spoken about it before we're absolutely open to the idea of buying a completely new business group or theoretically a segment.
Inc.</strong> Now if you were to find something that big wouldn't that offset the mantra you've had for several years now of the dividend and share repurchase being the primary vehicles of cash flow usage? We would have -- it would have some bearing on the way we assess that but because of the borrowing capacity that we've got and the cash generation that we have and that would be included with the acquisition it isn't absolute that it would force us into some other dividend protocol.
Keith this is Matt.
Certainly make no mistake our passion for the dividend and that growth record remains intact for sure.
And then relative to share repurchase activity if we have better places we can allocate our shareholders' capital that will create significant value that's what we're in business will try to do on our shareholders' behalf and we'll look for those opportunities.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Final question in mattress and furniture sales within Residential.
As you look at July any real change in trend from what you saw in the second quarter? Keith we're seeing the normal seasonal uptick in units.
In terms of comps to last year it gets a little easier.
So I would say it will probably finish the July in the flattish range which certainly is an improvement over the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Robert Kelly with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a point of clarification I guess on the guidance reduction on the top end.
Was the shortfall relative to your internal plans during 2Q that caused it? Or are you just kind of below plan or expecting to be a little bit below plan in the second half of the year? Bob this is Dave.
I'll start.
As Karl mentioned earlier the thing that surprised us a bit is the relative softness in this past quarter.
So the demand was lower than what we had expected previously.
And that has had some affect.
That coupled with the fact that there isn't any absolute clear positive signal that says things are going to get meaningfully better and then I guess coupled with the fact that we're relatively conservative it just seemed prudent for us to go ahead and bring that top end down a bit.
We'd love to do better than that but it's a combination of what we experienced and no clear signal that things are going to get meaningfully better in the back half.
LLC</strong> Right understood.
You talked for a couple quarters about relatively easier comps in the second half of the year.
I was just trying to get a sense of if you no longer think they're easy in 2H '11.
Well they're easier for sure because of the sort of lopsided business demand that we had in 2010.
So they are easier in the back half for sure.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just one final one.
You put through successfully a bunch of price increases to try and cover the raw material inflation.
It sounds like the softer-than-expected demand in 2Q negated a lot of that cost price mismatch.
But are you expecting -- if demand is close to trend or close to your expectations in the second half of the year do you expect to catch up with your margins? I'm sorry you were talking about 120 basis point improvement sequentially in 2Q compared to 1Q.
Is that the kind of expectation built into the second half of the year? Yes Bob.
We expect to continue to improve our margins.
We're so volume-sensitive right now we just need the volume.
We have an expectation at this point that our flat steel cost will soften in the back half.
That should in itself help our margins slightly but we need the volume to be able to run through the assets to get that yield.
Our next question comes from Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Given the level of your shares is there any thought towards accelerating the buyback so you won't be paying $30 a share in a year or 2? Herb this is Matt.
We certainly are always mindful of an accelerated buyback scenario.
If at some point we feel it's compelling we don't believe that's the case right now we'll certainly continue to get excess cash free cash flow back to our shareholders if we don't have better places to put it.
For the full year as you read in our press release we do anticipate to use our full authorization from the board which is 10 million shares.
And at least at this point in time we don't have a different expectation.
Herb this is Dave.
I'd reiterate what Matt said and I'd also say that I would have been disappointed if you hadn't asked.
Our next question comes from Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
I wanted to go back to the dividends.
I appreciate that you have that capacity and the dividend is very important.
But your payout ratio is still running about twice your target.
And with the continued challenges in the business momentum and the tough macro environment especially if 2012 is another sort of subdued year of recovery at what point do you have to revisit your dividend policy? Karen this is Matt I'll start.
First of all I'm not sure of your twice our stated payout ratio.
We have 50% to 60% is what we put out there for a long time is where we intend to navigate back toward.
If you just look at the second quarter I know that's not a real good metric but if you look at the $0.37 we just earned and we paid out $0.27 on July 15 that's about a 73% payout ratio.
Certainly not particularly proud of that but we're certainly making some headway.
And for the full year at the midpoint of our guidance if we're going to pay something around $0.27 $0.28 sort of range for this year in those quarters that continues to have us below 90% as a payout ratio.
We are very mindful that the fact that our earnings continue to be well south of $2 right now and we're paying more than $1 every year.
So until that math lines up we're going to out of field on our payout ratio.
But having said all of that our free cash flow continues to strongly support our current rate of dividend payouts and expected growth.
And again from my perspective I don't see our mindset on that changing with what we're seeing currently for sure.
Yes and to underscore that point and also going back to Keith's question about the effect on dividends that major acquisitions might make there's really nothing that we see that would cause us to want to change our dividend protocol.
We're proud of that history.
The cash generation of the company is awfully good.
The key is just exactly what Matt said is increasing the EPS.
And that is directly tied to increased unit demand and capacity utilization Karen.
So feel comfortable with the dividend as the signal.
Okay.
And if I could follow up with one separate question.
You indicated that higher SG&amp;A was in part due to professional fees related in part to some growth projects.
Can you just give us a little bit color on what all you were considering as well as whether or not this is a planned activity or expense at the beginning of the year? Yes Karen good question.
We believe that it's really important to periodically get some extra and independent sets of eyes to help us investigate ways that we might either penetrate existing markets more deeply or participate in markets that we don't currently participate in.
And on an ongoing basis we'll periodically do that.
We think it's healthy.
We've had some good experiences in the past.
So it was something that we had contemplated although this particular quarter had a larger amount of expense than what an average quarter would have in it.
And we're also not limiting -- I should say we're not limiting those investigations to just here in North America we're looking globally.
So expect to have some ongoing service expense associated with consultants or other research organizations but not at the quarterly rate that we just experienced.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Mark Rupe with Longbow Research.
Hey guys this is Andy in for Mark again.
Just quickly on innerspring units being down 5% do you feel that's a pretty fair reflection of what you've seen just from the market as a whole over there? Any changes maybe company-specific changes or changes in your customer base that sort of played on that number? No Andy.
I believe that we're trending with the market.
Certainly non-innerspring is taking some shares from innerspring in the full market.
Our participation in non-innerspring is very small of the dual mattress market.
But I think that our numbers replicate the full industry maybe not the ISPA statistics.
Remembering the ISPA statistics cover the large manufacturers that make up only 65% of the universe.
So when you see that data it may not correlate with our comments or are being off 5% in the quarter but we believe the industry from an innerspring perspective was off that close to that 5%.
We have not lost share.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
We thank you for your participation and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
All parties may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Inc.
Thank you.
Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's third quarter conference call.
With me today are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan who's our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for this morning's call is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Karl Glassman will provide operating highlights.
Dave will then address our outlook for the remainder of the year.
And finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliation.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
As we reported yesterday earnings for the third quarter were $0.31 per share or flat with the same quarter of last year.
Third quarter sales grew 9% versus the prior year from items that brought little incremental profit.
Inflation and currency rate fluctuation accounted for the bulk of the growth and trade sales from our steel mill provided 3% unit growth.
Across the remainder of the company as a whole unit volume was essentially flat.
We are not satisfied with our results this quarter.
Earnings and margins decreased both year-over-year and sequentially.
Competitive pricing and customer down spec-ing both of which Karl will talk about in his segment comments are impacting certain product categories.
When combined with our efforts to reduce inventory by curtailing production which also reduced overhead absorption earnings and margins were under pressure.
Earlier in the year we had expected overall unit demand to improve this Fall.
That has not happened and many of the recent forecasts and surveys from well-regarded sources suggest that our economy will be facing headwinds for longer than previously expected.
We have been too patient and are no longer willing to wait for an economic recovery to bolster earnings.
As a result we have recently initiated additional efforts to decrease excess production capacity reduce overhead and trim our cost structure.
For the quarter we generated operating cash of $101 million which includes the reduction in inventory levels that I mentioned earlier.
With ongoing concerns about weak markets our operating folks continue to closely monitor the working capital levels.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 12.5% of annualized sales.
New this quarter was a $30 million current liability associated with an interest rate swap that we entered in late 2010.
Excluding that item working capital was at 13.3% of annualized sales still well below our 15% target.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.28 per share reinforcing our commitment to consistent shareholder returns and our confidence in Leggett's strong cash generation.
2011 marks our 40th consecutive year of annual dividend increases.
Out of all the S&amp;P 500 there are only 11 companies that have a longer string of annual increases than Leggett and only 2 that have higher growth rates over that 40-year period.
Maintaining our dividend track record is very important to us.
And again this year we expect operating cash to comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
For the year operating cash should approximate $300 million.
Capital expenditures should not exceed $80 million and dividends should require about $155 million.
During the quarter as planned we continued purchasing our stock while maintaining our strong financial base.
So far this year we have repurchased 9.4 million shares under the current 10 million share authorization.
We have also issued 2.9 million shares year-to-date through various employee benefit and stock purchase programs.
We ended the third quarter with net debt at 31% of net capital which is at the low-end of our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return on a rolling 3-year basis to that of peer companies.
We target TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of about 12% to 15% per year.
To date for the 3-year period that will end on December 31 of 2011 we've generated TSR of 22% per year on average which is top half performance.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Karl? Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
Third quarter sales in Residential Furnishings segment grew 6% primarily from inflation and changes in currency exchange rates.
Unit volumes were up slightly versus a weak third quarter 2010.
In our U.S.
Spring business innerspring unit volumes were flat and boxspring units were up slightly during the quarter.
In our Furniture Hardware business third quarter unit volume decreased 9% versus the prior year.
Again this quarter we had significant growth in power foundations with unit shipments of 46%.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Residential Furnishings segment decreased versus the third quarter of 2010 primarily from higher raw material costs and increased restructuring-related expenses.
Competitive industry pricing and customer down spec-ing are also impacting EBIT and margins both year-over-year and sequentially.
With depressed industry volumes and anticipation of lower steel costs in certain cases we have reduced prices to retain market share.
Also in an effort to manage their own cost customers in certain instances have chosen to replace higher value components with lower value components.
As Dave mentioned earlier we have initiated additional efforts to decrease excess production capacity.
The activities announced today in the Residential segment include operations in bedding and carpet underlay.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment third quarter sales decreased 5% as lower Fixture &amp; Display sales were partially offset by continued growth in office furniture components.
Sales in our Fixture &amp; Display business decreased approximately 10% versus the third quarter of 2010.
Our major retail customers have significantly curtailed their current year remodeling activity.
Sales in our Office Furniture business grew 7%  versus a more difficult comparison in the third quarter last year.
We continue to be very pleased with the performance of this business as the office furniture industry continues to recover.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment decreased versus third quarter of 2010 primarily from lower Fixture &amp; Display sales.
As part of our efforts to reduce overhead and trim our cost structure we have initiated the closing of one of our point-of-purchase fixture display locations.
Third quarter sales in our Industrial Materials segment increased 18% reflecting steel-related price inflation and higher trade sales from our steel mill.
Unit volumes decreased in both wire and tubing primarily reflecting weakness in bedding furniture and store fixtures demand.
EBIT decreased versus third quarter 2010 primarily due to lower unit volume and wire and tubing and higher raw material costs.
EBIT margins also decreased as a change of -- as a result of a change in sales from intersegment to trade at our steel rod mill.
These trade sales have positive earnings contribution in addition to covering overhead costs and have kept the mill running at full capacity while internal demand for steel rod has been down.
However this sales shift is dilutive to margin percentages since it increases our reported sales while preserving comparable EBIT levels.
Our efforts to reduce production capacity also impact this segment.
We have recently announced plans to close 1 of our 6 domestic wire-drawing operations.
In the Specialized Products segment we posted 17% sales growth in the third quarter primarily reflecting continued strength in global automotive demand as well as growth in machinery and commercial vehicle products.
Changes in currency exchange rates also added to year-over-year sales growth during the quarter.
Higher sales led to increased EBIT during the quarter but EBIT margins contracted slightly as these gains were partially offset by higher raw material costs and currency impacts.
Automotive industry forecasts continue to anticipate meaningful global production growth for the remainder of 2011 and in 2012.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
As we announced yesterday we reduced our full year earnings guidance to $1.15 to $1.20 range.
The decrease versus previous guidance reflects the weaker-than-anticipated third quarter results and lower than previous expectations for the economy.
For the full year we expect sales of approximately $3.6 billion an increase of 7% versus 2010 largely due to inflation currency fluctuation and trade sales growth at the steel mill.
Unit volumes are expected to be essentially flat for the year.
And in closing to repeat myself we are not pleased with this quarter's results.
And as we have done before we are acutely focused on actions that will yield improved ongoing profitability in the future.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we'll be glad to try to answer your questions.
As we typically do in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please re-enter the queue and we will answer all the questions you have.
Melissa we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is actually Chad Bolen filling in for Budd this morning.
I guess as I look at the Residential Furniture segment specifically units for U.S.
Spring and for Furniture Hardware could you give us a sense of kind of how the unit's growth progressed through the quarter? And it does appear that the guidance for Q4 suggests units will be down year-over-year.
Is that consistent in bedding as well as Furniture Hardware? Could you give us sort of a flavor of what your expectations are for each of those businesses? On U.S.
Spring the units were down and this is innerspring units were down slightly in July and then slightly positive in August and September to end-up essentially flat.
To date in October shipments are up about 2% so it's just flattish more of the same.
Boxspring units were slightly positive in the third quarter and they were also up about 2% in October.
The outlook for the quarter in U.S.
Spring is flat a continuation of that.
We continue to feel that we have regained the share.
You'll remember in our third quarter comments of last year we had noted that we had lost some share.
We've regained that share.
So we believe that the innerspring portion of the U.S.
mattress business is flattish to maybe slightly negative but we will quickly admit that the innerspring portion of the finished mattress sector is losing some share.
So my comments are directly related to the innerspring portion of the Finished Mattress business.
As far as Furniture Hardware goes the demand there was disappointing.
July was much softer than anticipated.
Saw more of that in August.
We saw some recovery in September and continued to see that recovery in the first few shipping weeks of October.
As you know unlike bedding which is in the trough of its seasonal selling that furniture should be closer to the peak.
What we think that we experienced is -- and this is somewhat anecdotal is a de-stocking in the finished inventory industry -- from a furniture perspective in early third quarter.
We saw that at the OEM level.
We believe that the retailers were doing the same thing.
So we don't believe that we lost share but we certainly are under some pricing pressures in that industry.
Our next question comes the line of Mark Rupe with Longbow Research.
This is actually Andy White in for Mark this morning.
My question is just if you could give us maybe a little bit more commentary or color on the de-contenting or down spec-ing that you saw from customers.
Was that only in the Residential segment? And then also do you expect that to continue into 4Q and to 2012? Or what sort of outlook do you have here for the future? Andy this is Karl again.
It primarily impacts Residential.
As you know there's some connectivity into industrial from both a wire and from a tubing perspective so down spec-ing truly affects both segments.
But what we experienced in -- to make this a little broader there's a constant question of us about -- as it relates to pricing power specifically in Residential as it relates to steel.
We did raise prices in the second quarter based on significant increase in raw material.
We successfully passed through that inflation.
At the same time our bedding and furniture customers were dealing with inflation from a number of different sources primarily petrochemical-based impacting polyurethane foam and some of the non-fashion fabrics.
And as those customers tried to pass through that inflation that they were receiving from all sectors of the raw material supply they had problem passing through to retail.
So the response to that was to de-content at the same time that the consumer is bifurcating.
They're trading down at the low-end and we're dealing with a situation where both  furniture and bedding that it's almost as if the product can't get cheap enough.
And at the top end we're seeing real strength in both furniture and bedding.
So that bifurcation is a real issue that has become more acute as the consumer has become more pessimistic as the year's gone on so it truly is a Residential Furnishings issue.
And Andy this is Dave Haffner.
The second part of your question was will it continue.
It could continue but only to the point where the functionality of the finished product meets the minimum requirements.
So wherever practical where there's value engineering or de-spec-ing de-contenting that still meets the customers' and ultimately the consumers' minimum requirements there's some likeliness of that.
Of course as Karl said a lot of that value has already been driven out.
Okay so just maybe to follow-up with that.
It sounds like then that there's not really maybe a whole lot of more -- little room for that until you sort of get closer to those minimum requirements as you suggested.
Yes that's definitely a correct assumption.
What happens post-inflationary cycles there's a reevaluation of content at our customer level.
They've gone through that process.
To Dave's point they can only build so far.
And at some point the consumer becomes disgusted maybe with the quality that they're getting for a price point and the consumer starts to step themselves up to get some quality as opposed to just pure unadulterated value.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One the margin situation you've been discussing I assume that's going to continue into the fourth thus the lower guidance in the fourth.
But will that also play a role in the first quarter of next year? Keith this is Karl again.
The -- it to will roll to the fourth.
And what's happening I need to separate what's happening in a steel industry from a long products and a flat products perspective.
And the long products which are wire and rod we are not seeing price decreases and are not seeing much price down pressure.
So this is a flat products issue so therefore more significantly impacts furniture than bedding.
And steel peaked from an input cost perspective in the second quarter.
As I said earlier we raised prices based on that.
That cost inflation ran through our cost sheets in the third quarter.
We are now replacing that steel with lower steel cost again from a flat perspective and steel continues to deflate.
Part of the margin squeeze issue that we got ourselves into is our customers were pressuring us for price reductions earlier than we ran that lower cost through our cost of goods sold.
So it will continue into the fourth.
We believe that it will be through the system by the end of the fourth quarter.
And then Keith as you know some of these actions that we're taking has some onetime costs associated with them but the long-term benefits of these actions would positively affect next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the actions the plant closures headcount reductions would those all be done by the end of the calendar year? For the most part.
And Keith to the way to think of that is from a 2011 impact it was roughly $0.05.
About $0.01 of that is in the fourth quarter.
And then net benefit our best estimate is $0.06 to $0.07 into 2012.
But we are as Dave said in his comments and as the press release pointed out we are stepping back with the view that the economy is not going to recover at any point in our lifetimes and are taking are real critical look at all of the capacity.
We are underutilized in our facilities.
And so I don't want to infer by these comments that there won't be additional costs in the future but there'll be resulted benefit from that also.
And it gives us the opportunity to better utilize existing assets.
Our next question comes from John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted some color on the bedding industry in Europe say versus the U.S.
Any divergent trends there? Yes just recently John that we're seeing a softness in unit demand.
But I will say from a sales perspective that on a dollar basis units are -- I'm sorry dollar sales are higher in Europe because there was much more severe steel-based inflation in Europe.
But the units actually in the third quarter is the first time we saw European demand soften.
We're seeing real strength continued strength in Mexico Brazil and Uruguay.
The Asian markets are basically flat so there are differences around the world.
But to sum it all up Latin America good and Europe getting softer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I heard your comments Karl correctly on Residential Furniture it doesn't sound like end-market pull through in motion.
Furniture let's say was down 9%.
Do you think there was some level of inventory de-stocking going on? John at this point we think that that's the case.
We also know that there was some trading down though in quality and specification.
But from a macro demand standpoint we do think the third quarter was just a onetime inventory optimization opportunity.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Kelly with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a question on -- for the majority of the segments it looked like you so some margin compression due to raw materials.
Exacerbating the slow demand story but you called out raw materials for all the segments as being a negative but you're successful getting price.
Is this EBIT margin compression a timing issue from an inventory perspective? Or did you not fully recover the raw material increases? Really the explanation on raw material inflation is a year-on-year issue as opposed to a sequential issue so that's why the call-out in the segment detail.
And we believe that we are --  I'm not going to say that we're fully recovered but we are recovered to a high degree.
The challenge is this mix shift or this de-contenting or spec change down the backside.
And also Karl as we pointed out when we made the decision Bob to cut back production in order to contract our inventories the overhead associated with that production is meaningful and so that had a pretty meaningful effect on margin.
And then I know it's repetitive and I apologize but that shift from an intercompany sale of rod to our wire mills to trade even though the EBIT was the same the reported trade sales went up and that also had that negative impact on our margins.
If production goes back up of course we'll absorb all that overhead in a much better fashion and then at any shift back towards internal sales of our products out of the steel mill will also have a positive effect.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up on -- in the Office Furniture market you seem to have seen some deceleration there but we're still growing.
In past quarters you talked about some pretty significant underutilization or below optimal utilization.
Maybe that's the right way to characterize it.
Where are we today in the Office Furniture business as far as utilization? Really Bob what we're seeing in the office is just more difficult comps.
That business started really significant recovery in the second quarter of 2010 so we're anniversary-ing that significant growth.
The utilization rate in the office sector is just a little bit north of 50% so as we continue to get additional volume and pass-through then more properly utilize those facilities it's a very good thing for us.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes the line of Allen Zwickler with First Manhattan.
Research Division</strong> Could you just -- on a macro basis your comments about competition in the bedding industry and your comment quoting that that just doesn't seem to be a price.
How does that jive just generally with your dominant market position in certain components? I mean is it that there is somebody out there who somehow figured out a way to make something similar to you at a cheaper price? If you follow where I'm going with this because it just -- it was a little striking to me that -- we know that demand is down in general but that wasn't -- it didn't quite come through to me that that was the only issue.
Allen what it is to answer your bedding question first is that the competitive environment in bedding really is unchanged.
The big difference is we will admit as I said that specialty sleep products are taking some share from innerspring.
We think that the specialty from a unit perspective has about a 10% market share so that is some competition.
But as you'll note we've said that our units were flat.
As it relates to the de-spec-ing situation that's more consumer driven than anything.
It's the consumer trading down to a price point the retailer becoming more promotional to drive the consumer into that retail environment.
So it's not a significant competitive issue as it is a consumption issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it isn't as if someone came along and I'm going to say this the wrong way made a different a Leggett-type component that is able to be sold -- you know where I'm going with this.
I just want to be clear on that.
Yes yes.
It's a very good question.
And I think we can give you great comfort that there isn't anybody in the world that we know of that can take steel rod and turn it into I'll just say bedding components any more efficiently than Leggett.
There aren't any new innerspring geometries or boxspring geometries that have eroded a portion of our offering to our customers.
It doesn't mean that there aren't people working on those things.
We work on them all the time of course.
But I think it's good that you asked the question because we are comfortable that we can -- we don't like to use the word dominate but we are comfortable that there isn't anybody else in the world that can produce those components that I just mentioned more efficiently than Leggett.
Research Division</strong> And just 2 quick follow-ups.
One is how are you doing in China in terms of production et cetera? And then unrelated in terms of the commercial business Store Fixtures et cetera how would you characterize that business versus the capacity that you've taken out in the last 2 years? As it relates to Chinese production not a lot has changed that we operate the 11 facilities there very successfully and profitably.
They continue to be very very productive.
So we haven't seen a change there really positive or negative.
It's just demand related.
As it relates to Store Fixtures that -- we were very optimistic moving into 2011.
Because we had reduced our capacity we experienced a strong 2010.
You'll remember in the first half of 2010 we had picked up some market share gains in early 2011.
And what we experienced in the second and now third quarters and will continue on into the fourth is just a lack of demand.
And that the retailers continue to some degree with their openings as they normally do but they have very much slowed on the remodeling part of their business and remodeling is an important element to us.
Thank you.
There are no further question at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
We'll just say we appreciate your attention and we'll talk to you again.
The next release will be the early February and then we'll again have a conference call the next morning.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt.
Thank you Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
I'm Dave DeSonier.
And with me today are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanagan our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Karl will provide operating highlights.
Dave will then address our outlook for 2012.
And finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings.
For the quarter earnings were $0.06 per share and included $0.16 per share of costs associated with the restructuring activities that we announced in late December.
Earnings per share excluding these costs were $0.22 in the quarter.
In the fourth quarter 2010 we earned $0.21 per share.
Fourth quarter same location sales grew 6% versus the prior year largely from items that brought little incremental profit.
Raw material-related price inflation and trade sales from our steel mill accounted for the bulk of the growth with unit volumes from our other businesses in total adding about 1% to sales.
Earnings per share for the full year 2011 adjusted to exclude the fourth quarter restructuring related costs were $1.20 per share.
In 2010 we earned $1.15 per share.
The increase is primarily due to a lower share count a lower effective tax rate and slightly higher sales partially offset by higher selling and administrative expense and other costs.
Sales grew 8% in 2011 largely from inflation currency rate changes and trade sales from our steel mill.
Across the company as a whole unit volume increased slightly.
Demand improved in certain of our markets during 2011 with automotive and office furniture leading the way.
In contrast stagnant demand negatively impacted our major residential markets.
Many consumers continued to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the phase of ongoing weak economy.
On the third quarter earnings call we stated that our view of continuing demand weakness in certain of our markets and our plan to initiate actions that would yield improved ongoing profitability.
In late December we announced further restructuring which included the closure of 4 production facilities along with other cost reductions.
These activities resulted in a $0.16 per share predominantly noncash charge to earnings during the fourth quarter.
The restructuring-related activities that we initiated during 2011 in total should benefit 2012 earnings per share by approximately $0.07 to $0.10.
We were very pleased to report in late December that we were acquiring Western Pneumatic Tube a leading provider to the aerospace industry of integral components for critical aircraft systems.
Our  strategic long-term 4% to 5% annual growth objective envisions periodic acquisitions of companies exactly like Western.
High-quality businesses with secure leading positions in growing profitable attractive markets and that makes sense to be part of Leggett &amp; Platt.
The acquisition was completed on January 12 and is expected to be slightly accretive to EPS in 2012.
Operating cash for the fourth quarter was $127 million bringing the full year 2011 operating cash to $329 million.
With concerns about weak markets our operating folks continue to closely monitor the working capital levels.
We ended the year with working capital at 11.8% of annualized sales.
Now current liabilities include approximately $30 million associated with an interest rate swap that we entered in 2010.
Excluding this item working capital was 12.7% of annualized sales still well below our 15% target.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.28 per share reinforcing our commitment to consistent shareholder returns and our confidence in Leggett's strong cash generation.
2011 marks our 40th consecutive year of annual dividend increases.
Maintaining our dividend track record is very important to us.
Only 2 companies in the S&amp;P 500 have a stronger string of annual increases at a higher growth rate than Leggett.
For over 20 years we have generated more than enough operating cash to fund both capital expenditures and dividends and we expect that to be the case again in 2012.
For the upcoming year operating cash should exceed $300 million.
Capital expenditures are expected to be about $100 million and dividend payment should approximate $160 million.
We anticipate the increase in capital expenditures relates primarily to new automotive programs that we have been awarded and that should contribute meaningfully to earnings and cash flow beginning in 2013.
During 2011 we continued purchasing our stock while maintaining our strong financial base.
For the year we repurchased 10 million shares.
We also issued 3 million shares through various employee benefit and stock purchase programs.
We ended the year with net debt at 29% of net capital which is below our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We expect to continue repurchasing our stock when we have excess cash flow and we have an annual $10 million share authorization under which these purchases may be made.
However with the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube in mid-January and the resulting temporary increase in our net debt levels to about 35% of net capital we may choose not to repurchase any shares during 2012.
For the fourth consecutive year Leggett &amp; Platt's stock provided a better return to investors than did the S&amp;P 500 index.
We target total shareholder return in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3 years ending December 31 2011 we generated an average annual Total Shareholder Return of 21% compared to 14% for the S&amp;P 500 index.
That places us in the top 38% of the S&amp;P 500 just a bit shy of our goal.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Karl? Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
Fourth quarter sales in the Residential Furnishings segment increased 6% primarily from raw material-related price inflation.
Unit volumes were up slightly.
In our U.S.
Spring business innerspring unit volumes increased 4% and boxspring units increased 2% during the fourth quarter.
The positive innerspring data primarily reflects our recovery of market share in 2011 that was temporarily lost to a European supplier in the back half of 2010.
For the full year 2011 both innerspring and boxspring units were essentially flat.
In our Furniture Hardware business fourth quarter unit volume decreased 3% versus the prior year.
While units were still negative in the quarter the market has stabilized since mid-year and was showing some improved strength as the year came to a close.
For the full year 2011 units were down 6%.
Again this quarter we had significant growth in adjustable beds with unit shipments up 35%.
With our other major residential businesses flat or down in unit volume for the full year this business was the bright spot in this segment.
For the full year 2011 adjustable beds units grew 44%.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Residential Furnishings segment decreased versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
The earnings benefit from slightly higher unit volumes was more than offset by higher restructuring-related costs.
Of the 4 additional plant closures that we mentioned in the restructuring announcement in late December one was in the residential segment.
This operation was a fabric coating business that was formerly part of our Fabric and Carpet Underlay Group.
Earlier restructuring activity in 2011 included a Canadian spring facility which was converted from manufacturing to warehouse and 2 carpet underlay plants.
We expect segment margins to benefit in 2012 from the cost savings associated with these activities.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment fourth quarter sales decreased 4% from lower Fixture &amp; Display volume.
Most of this decrease resulted from lower volume with brand product companies supplied by our Point of Purchase business.
Sales in the Office Furniture components was essentially flat during the quarter.
Volume in this business continued to generally track the overall recovery in the office furniture industry.
Growth rate slowed in the back half of 2011 as comparisons became more difficult reflecting the acceleration of the industry's recovery in mid-2010.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment decreased versus fourth quarter of 2010 primarily from lower Fixture &amp; Display sales and production levels and higher inventory reserves.
Of the 4 plant closures that we mentioned in our December announcement one is in the commercial segment.
We have begun the consolidation of 1 of our 6 remaining store fixtures locations.
The majority of the volume is expected to be retained and will be supplied through 2 of our remaining operations.
This activity is expected to benefit 2012 margins and should be complete in the second quarter.
In addition consistent with our stated plan to continually assess our portfolio and exit non-core businesses we divested our small U.K.-based Point of Purchase display operation in January 2012.
Moving on to the industrial segment.
Fourth quarter sales increased 18% reflecting steel-related price inflation and higher trade sales through our steel mill.
Unit volumes increased slightly in our wire drawing business but declined in steel tubing and fabricated wire products.
EBIT decreased versus fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to restructuring-related costs.
EBIT margins also decreased during the quarter as a result of a change in sales from intra-segment to trade at our steel rod mill.
These trade sales have positive earnings contribution in addition to covering overhead costs and have kept the mill running at full capacity while internal demand for steel rod has been down.
However this sales shift is dilutive to margin percentages since it increases our reported sales while preserving comparable EBIT levels.
The remaining 2 plant closures that we discussed in December are occurring in this segment.
We closed 1 of our 6 domestic wire drawing operations and consolidated that volume into 2 of the remaining plants.
We are also closing a wire forming operation that was a supplier of coated wire dishwasher racks to the domestic appliance industry.
These activities should improve capacity utilization within the segment in 2012 and benefit earnings and margins.
As Dave mentioned earlier we completed the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube on January 12.
This operation will become a standalone business unit in the Industrial Materials segment.
And with operating margins above company average it bolstered the segment's full year EBIT margins in 2012.
In the Specialized Products segment we posted 6% sales growth in the fourth quarter with increases coming from all parts of the segment.
Automotive growth continued but in a more moderate 6% rate as prior year comparisons have become more challenging.
EBIT and EBIT margins decreased during the quarter.
Higher sales contributed favorably to EBIT but the benefit was more than offset by impairment costs associated with the write-down of a specific patent.
Automotive industry forecasts anticipate continued growth in the global production rates in 2012 but the outlook varies by geography.
North America and Asia are both expected to have meaningful production growth but European forecasts are negative as economic concerns linger.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
As we announced yesterday our full year 2012 earnings guidance is $1.20 to $1.40 per share on sales of $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion.
The earnings guidance assumes a $0.07 to $0.10 per share benefit from recent restructuring activities but this will be partially offset by higher anticipated interest expense and effective tax rate.
The full year revenue forecast assumes only modest improvement in the economy with no significant change from inflation deflation or currency factors.
We had to make some difficult and emotional decisions this past quarter.
It is never easy to close facilities or reduce the number of employee partners but it's a tough business environment and we've reacted accordingly.
The changes we've made and the meaningful positive effects that they will have in our operations going forward are valuable to our entire shareholder base.
We are leaner than we've been for many years and are in great shape to benefit from improved demand.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we'll be glad to try to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please reenter the queue and we'll try to answer all the questions that you have.
Diego we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- here is my question I guess.
It goes to guidance and maybe give us some color on guidance.
And Dave you did tantalize us a bit with 2013 talking about the automotive project and automotive projects.
And I think in the announcement on Western Pneumatic you talked about significant accretion after 2012 as you get through some of the purchase accounting issues.
Can you give us kind of a goalpost of -- what are the goalposts of 2012 in terms of negative 1% plus 5% and the operating margins that happened? Why do you have a negative 1%? What has to happen there what has to happen to get to plus 5% at the top line and then the bottom line? And then what does 2013 look like? You didn't put any numbers to that at least I didn't see -- I didn't hear any.
So give us a thought of -- do we get to our $2 roadmap in 2013? Yes see if I can tackle that a piece at a time.
First of all the reason I commented on the automotive business the gestation period -- I think you know this but the time it takes from conception through development through quotation and then landing the business is significant and then there's quite a period of time for tooling and ultimate utilization of the product and those are reasonably meaningful capital expenditures for us.
We're very pleased to do that because the return on that investment is outstanding.
But we wanted to kind of dovetail the timing of that increased capital expenditure and the fact that it's probably -- or it will be 2013 whenever that incremental benefit comes to pass.
So there wasn't -- certainly wasn't trying to do anything other than just show that difference in timing on capital expenditure.
And with regard to Western you're right there's some purchase accounting that comes into play and that's a good thing.
2013 will see improved accretion as a result of that acquisition.
I'm not in a position today to try to quantify that for you except to say that the bias on EPS will be higher the next year and subsequent years.
And then with regard to -- let me take the low end of the guidance if I may Budd -- and I apologize for jumping around here because we reckoned that question would come.
And as we sat around and put forth our best estimate of a range we reminded ourselves of what happened in 2010.
Namely we came out of the gate pretty robustly pretty strong and by mid-year we started to see some significant pullback in demand.
We hope we're being conservative but we think we're being realistic that that could happen.
So that really talks -- that talks to the lower end of that guidance.
And then I read your notes this morning that you put out and I think you've done a good job of talking about what's going to cause this EPS shift and specifically margins and reduced fixed costs on higher volumes certainly assist us.
The restructuring benefits that I spoke about that $0.07 to $0.10 certainly going to come to pass.
A modest accretion in the first year here with Western and then those higher tax rates and interest expenses.
As we know those are going to happen and so we've gone ahead and put those into play.
Stir that whole pot it gets us in that approximate $1.30 $1.32 range.
And so we bracketed $1.20 $1.40.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just if I can -- just to avoid Dave DeSonier's restrictions for one more time just one more follow-up.
On the Western Pneumatic it is so project-related with the aerospace and the big projects that are going on with the airline companies how do you get comfort that that's a longer-lasting business and that there's something behind that? Yes.
That's an excellent question and really we're glad you asked that because part of the due diligence in fact a meaningful part of the due diligence that we did in conjunction with this Western Pneumatic team which incidentally they're an outstanding team of management and partners in general.
But that diligence had to do with the customer concentration the breadth of the product line and the duration of those products and their application.
They're very -- they're somewhat automotive-like and even longer their long-lived applications.
And once you're able to be favored with that type of business then the users of that product rarely will change suppliers over the life of that particular application.
SO they're very long-lived.
And so we gained a significant amount of comfort.
And then of course we're pleased to see the demand in global aircraft orders go up and certainly benefit from that.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question within the commercial division.
Within your guidance could you tell me how you're thinking about Fixture &amp; Display and Office Furniture for 2012? Keith this is Karl.
From a commercial standpoint that we are looking from a top line perspective of a reduction in sales of about $20 million some of that has to do with the divestiture of the U.K.-based POP facility and about flattish demand in the remaining business.
Remember that we're going through this facility consolidation in Alabama.
We expect that we'll retain the majority of that business.
So store fixtures while it's early and is by far the most difficult of our businesses to predict we're looking at a flattish once you take out the POP business.
Office is also a forecast of flat to slightly up.
You'll note that the BIFMA forecast for 2012 is for flat to slightly negative in the macro BIFMA space.
We feel pretty good or real good about our product placement and our relative position with specific customers.
So we are up admittedly against some very difficult comps in that business but feel good about our market position.
It's just a question does the market continue to stay strong? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The market for store fixtures? The market for office.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For office okay.
I guess on residential -- and if you could do the same thing just on Spring and Furniture your expectation for '12? On the spring side our forecasts are slightly positive maybe a point which correlates to the ISPA industry data of forecasted unit growth of 1%.
They also -- and they incorporate all the specialty space so some people would say our innerspring growth forecast may be bullish.
I certainly feel that those that think that an innerspring is no longer part of a mattress didn't witness the Las Vegas market last week didn't see the extreme proliferation of new innerspring designs especially in hybrid placements.
We feel good about the trend on innersprings.
They were up in the fourth quarter.
Innerspring sales in the January timeframe are up about 7%.
So we feel good about the trend but today's earlier point we're a little spooked by the head fake that we've experienced in the last couple of years with a strong start and a diminished back half.
From a hardware standpoint specific to furniture that business was under greater pressure in 2011 than was bedding.
We saw a trough in the summer months.
Saw some recovery toward the end of the year with hardware units being up about 7% in December.
Feel good about the trend I cannot give you a January trend number on furniture because of the Asian aspect of that business.
And as you all know that the Chinese holidays were in January this year versus February last so I don't have meaningful comparisons.
But we would expect for the full year flat to slightly unit positive in that business as well.
All in the backdrop of as you yourself witnessed significant optimism and really positive feelings coming out of the Las Vegas market last week.
But we continue to be concerned as our customers about the back half of the year the cost of advertising the probability of a very contentious election.
So we're guarded in our forecast.
Our next question comes from Leah Villalobos with Longbow Research.
I just wanted to clarify on the quarter innerspring results how much of that was share gains versus organic growth? It was primarily recovery of previously lost share that you would have heard in our commentary or remember from a year ago that we spoke to some temporary loss to some opportunistic pricing from a European spring manufacturer that was highly correlated to the then very low euro exchange rate.
We've regained that business in early 2011 so we're comping the recovery of that business.
So probably 3 quarters of the pickup in the fourth quarter was the recovery of that business.
In the first shipping weeks of this new year we're still getting some benefit of that.
We think about 50% of it was the recovery of that business and the other 50% was just a fact that business is better now than it was a year ago now.
That's really helpful.
And then just if I could one more on the International Springs business we saw some nice growth numbers to last few quarters and I was just wondering if there's anything in terms of timing or if you're really seeing a contraction there versus kind of what you saw on the third quarter? We started to see a little bit of slowing in specifically European spring in the fourth quarter with units down about 4.5% to 5%.
Interestingly enough they were up in December just from 100 basis points but they were up.
But we did see a little bit of contraction in January which we've been expecting.
Now remember January in all the data that I'm giving you has one more shipping day in 2012 versus '11.
But European spring was down about 10% in January.
Latin American spring was up about 10% in January and was up -- as we continued to gain share it was actually up 22% in the fourth quarter of last year so we feel good about that.
The real question is the cloud that hangs over Europe.
Your next question comes from Herb Hardt with Monness.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the plant closings can you give us some sense of your operating rate? And if business starts to get more robust is there any areas where you might run out of capacity? Herb good question.
Our utilization rate at the end of the quarter was about 60%.
We had not -- that does not take into consideration the majority of the restructuring activities that are really in process now.
We expect through all of that we may lose as much as 500 basis points in total capacity but it spread through the businesses in the appropriate areas and all of that obviously based on some longer-term forecast.
The steel mill is as I said 100% utilized.
The automotive and office sides have a little bit higher utilization rate than say a store fixtures would.
I really look forward to running out of capacity in any of our businesses and long for the day when a customer is calling me saying that we can't keep up with them.
It's been so long that I've kind of forgot how those calls take place but I remember the EBIT margins that come with them.
Yes but with the production capacity that we've got Herb it's unlikely we're going to need to make any meaningful capital expenditures for increased capacity if we keep the product mix that we've got through 2013 -- excuse me through 2012.
Come 2013 if the economy picks up there are going to be 2 to 3 business units where we'll probably need to increase capacity.
Our next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry to get back in.
And Karl the obvious issue in the bedding industry I just wondered if you'd just step back and kind of philosophically talk about the changes that we're seeing in bedding between alternative sleep and the units of innerspring and where you think that goes.
And if you could also maybe comment a little bit about the import situation and where that sits.
I know you've had some recent conversations in our nation's capital on that.
So maybe talk a bit about the whole philosophy of where you think -- where Leggett thinks this is going because you guys have as good a window on that as anybody.
I know there's been a lot of conversation about that market now.
You and I certainly have a lot of conversations recently on this very issue.
We believe today that alternative sleep or specialty depending on how you define the terms is about 10% of total industry units probably in the 25% to 30% range in dollars big future expectation of how large it can get is difficult.
Admittedly that product sells at some ultra-premium price points.
Until recently almost all above $2 000 at queen retail.
That consumer certainly has been a more comfortable consumer allowing that business to grow significantly last year.
Give a lot of credit to the people in that space the Tempur-Pedics and Select Comforts who've done a wonderful job at pulling the consumer into the replacement cycle as opposed to the fulfillment replacement business that others have been doing.
To give you an order magnitude though I think that your statistics would tell us that Tempur sales were about 618 000 units in 2011.
Admittedly great growth.
To give you that magnitude though and I don't want to be overly defensive but that's about 3 average shipping weeks for us.
So 90% of the market is still alive and well servicing a consumer that has been less confident than the ultra-premium consumer.
Now what we saw in Las Vegas was a shift in that Tempur-Pedic along with some others specifically Serta have done a really good job of introducing new products that hit a target customer north of the $1 000 queen.
And we believe that about 75% to 80% of sales are still below $1 000 at queen that is very highly concentrated to an innerspring probably in the 98% range don't know for sure.
It's interesting in conversations with both Simmons and that they have done a lot of consumer market preference analysis and believe that at the $1 000 price point and above -- their own studies tell them that about 60% of consumers prefer an innerspring hybrid product that highly correlates to our own internal studies.
That's why you saw Simmons focused on a hybrid product that's why you saw Serta obviously those 2 share the same dataset introduce a hybrid hy [ph] series product.
Sealy there's no secrets in the bedding industry certainly introduced a beauty rest hybrid product.
It becomes a definition of terms issue.
We had some conversation with a manufacturer at the Las Vegas market and asked him how things were doing and he said "Business is great.
I'm having hard time selling innersprings." And we said well what's your best-selling introduction and he described the hybrid product that has our innerspring in it but he called it specialty.
So we need to understand the definition of the terms.
We are really optimistic about the launch of the hybrid product offerings and what the support of an innerspring combined with some alternative materials and the sleeping surface mean for the consumer.
The fact that a high percentage of those introductions contain our products is rewarding.
So we're bullish at the same time that we're looking forward to the day that that consumer that is more price sensitive comes back into the market.
We'll learn a lot over the next few months.
And as you know the bedding demand cycle has changed a little bit.
The biggest selling months historically going back in time were August September.
They're now February and March highly correlated to tax refund season so we'll see.
It's a little bit too early to say what that demand will look like but we're optimistic.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the import issue? The import issue.
Go way back in time that you'll know that we filed an antidumping suit against the combination of China South Africa and Vietnam believing that primarily China at that time and the others to a lesser degree were dumping innersprings into the United States at lower than their cost of manufacture and lower than they were pricing their products in the domestic market.
We then and today produce innersprings in China.
We are very confident of that filing.
The U.S.
government agreed with us.
At its peak we were experiencing about 3.5 million innersprings coming into this country with the benefit of that antidumping and sister countervailing duty finding that new tariffs were put on those innersprings at the high rate of 235% and we saw that the importation of that dumped product drop pretty significantly.
Then again early 2010 late 2009 we saw a spike in that product again probably at the rate of 1 million pieces.
So we've fixed 2/3 of it but there's about 1 million pieces that we believe that we closely track that are shipped into this country illegally that by a transshipment most of the point of origin is still China and all that happens is shipping documents change hands and it looks on to the customs department that those products are produced in places like Malaysia and Singapore and Taiwan where there's not a big manufacturing base of innersprings.
The reference that you made is that I did have the pleasure of testifying in front of a Senate trade subcommittee in May of last year making the folks in Washington aware of that illegal transshipment.
It's a nonpartisan issue in that it's a jobs issue that we're losing jobs through the lack of enforcement of U.S.
trade laws.
And we continue to fight -- we hear good things but one thing that I'm sure of in Washington is there is a propensity to point fingers at the other agency and to cut through the politics and the lack of inaction and the desire to enforce our laws but seemingly the lack of ability is alarming.
So as a U.S.
taxpayer we're certainly losing that revenue as a U.S.
manufacturer is losing the ability to engage in increased job formation and we continue to pursue that.
It's rewarding to hear the talking heads the politicians all talk about fair trade but little is being done so we'll continue to push.
Your next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the acquisition.
So if I'm hearing you right there are going to be some purchase accounting adjustments.
I assume that's around inventory in the first year that prevents more accretion.
Is that correct? Yes that's correct Keith.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and there will be a goodwill amortization that would hit over a longer period of time correct? Yes it's intangible amortization.
It's  -- we'll assign some value to the customer relationships and that's fairly meaningful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that you have to amortize that over time is that correct? Yes that's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the inventory hit is just the first year? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Joe Havard with Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> The text -- the release cited higher interest expense as a potential at least marginal drag on the earnings power here.
If Matt's in the room still I wondered if he could elaborate on that debt picture.
You don't have big maturities near term but I don't see anything big coming on either.
It looks like kind of '13 '14 some of the chunks start to roll off.
Is that expected to be replaced or does cash flow take care of it? What are you looking at? Good question Joel.
As we sit here today we have our $6 million bank facility that we renewed in August and it's a 5-year tenure so we've got almost a full 5 years left.
We're using about $300 million of that as we speak.
The overnight volume rate is about 30 basis points.
So we're happy to have that in place feel real good about that.
We anticipate to continue to use that as a source of financing and it's obviously quite inexpensive all things considered.
In January which is when we bought Western too that required about $188 million check to write.
So that's the spike in the borrowing that has taken place and we're glad it did so to make an acquisition come to pass.
And so that will -- that's directly correlated to some of the incremental expense we will see on the interest line in 2012.
We expect to pay that off significantly during the year which also directly correlates [indiscernible] we do not anticipate to buy back many shares if any at all in 2012.
If you look at our rolling forward maturities we do have one coming around the corner in April of 2013 at $300 million.
We expect to largely refinance most of that with an issuance later this year.
That issuance will be about $200 million.
And again where we see interest rates today the coupon on that would be something without our swaps noted in the 3.5% to 4% range.
Once we factor in our swap it will be something still south of 5% again if rates stay just where they are right now.
And so we would anticipate refinancing some of the upcoming maturity debt just in a pragmatic fashion.
So nothing on the debt side or the overall leverage should give anybody pause.
In fact quite the contrary we would anticipate that our net debt to cap ratio which we often quote would be near the end of the year about 30% once again which is about where it was as we closed 2011.
Research Division</strong> And since we're all doing inherent follow-ups today I wonder then does that -- maybe this goes to Haffner too does that mean that to get into the quote target debt range that there's another more sizeable acquisition candidate or 2 on the horizon? Yes.
Joel let me just say if I may that the activity down the M&amp;A department has picked up a bit and we've got a few more things on the radar screen as we say.
There are some pretty critical criteria that we use.
We've strengthened and refined our criteria requirements so we're looking at I think generally fewer than higher quality targets.
And we'll need to announce them as they happen but we're working.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Robert Kelly of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Forgive me if I missed this.
Did you talk about in your 2012 guidance your expectations for the Western Pneumatic revenue? We didn't talk about it specifically Bob but it's in the $60 million to $62 million range.
LLC</strong> So revenue in '12 will be roughly even with what they did in 2011? No 2011 was about $55 million $56 million.
LLC</strong> Okay got you.
And then I believe you stated the EBIT margin for Western were -- I guess is the right way to think about the EBIT margins for Western accretive to Leggett's corporate average? Yes I think the way to think of it Bob is that those margins in general are higher than the average margins otherwise.
LLC</strong> And is that adjusted for the one-time inventory and purchase accounting adjustments you'll be making? Yes sir.
LLC</strong> So once those fall away significantly accretive? Meaningfully yes.
Our next question comes from Dillard Watt with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned a shift from interest segment to trade sales in the steel mill.
Wondering what drove that shift.
Was an addition of any new costumers or anything like that? No.
Really what happened was it was a reduction in internal demand which used to be the transfer or the sale of product intra-segment.
So sales with the rod mill would move to the wire mill at market remember.
So there is an appropriate EBIT margin on all of that but they were non-reported sales.
We have now -- because of things being relatively soft and our ability to produce more tons at the sterling mill we've shifted some of that business out into the trade steel industry again at very acceptable EBIT margins but now we have a reported sale.
So it becomes dilutive from that perspective.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then within the residential segment and I guess really the whole business what are you all thinking about in terms of the inflation impact from a year ago on revenue on a quarterly basis? From an inflation perspective we're today modeling no new inflation and we would have the continuation then of where you would have depressed prices in 1Q of last year somewhat inflated prices in 2Q and then depending on the business some selective givebacks in 3Q.
So normalize the whole thing and it's flattish.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
All parties may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you.
Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's First Quarter Conference Call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO; Karl Glassman our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanagan our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for our call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release Karl will provide operating highlights Dave will then address our outlook for 2012 and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of our website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website yesterday a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary of financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
We were pleased with the first quarter results we reported yesterday.
First quarter same-location sales increased 4.5% versus a relatively strong first quarter of 2011 reflecting a combination of unit volume growth and raw material related price inflation.
Volume trends were mixed across our businesses.
We saw volume gains in automotive and office components as well as in U.S.
Spring adjustable beds and other parts of the Residential segment.
The most notable volume declines occurred in store fixtures furniture hardware and commercial vehicle products.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.30 unchanged from the first quarter of 2011.
In last year's first quarter we had a $0.03 per share benefit from unusual items including gains from building sales that did not recur in 2012.
Current quarter earnings benefited from higher unit volumes.
We are also realizing the expected earnings benefits from the restructuring activities we initiated in late 2011.
The strategically attractive Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition that we completed in January is exceeding in our expectation for strong operating performance.
In the first half of this year we will recognize $6 million of charges half of this in the first quarter from an acquisition-related fair value adjustment to inventory.
These charges will not repeat in the back half of this year so we expect Western's earnings to improve as the year progresses.
Our operating folks continue to do an excellent job of closely managing working capital reflecting our focus on return optimization.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 12.3% of annualized sales.
Current liabilities include approximately $28 million associated with an interest rate swap that we entered in 2010.
If you exclude that item working capital was 13% of annualized sales still well below our 15% target.
Cash from operations was strong during the quarter at $65 million.
We expect operating cash for the full year of over $325 million which should once again comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
Capital expenditures should be approximately $100 million this year and dividends should require about $160 million.
We have maintained our strong financial base and ended the first quarter with net debt at 34% of net capital which is within our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
In February we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.28 per share and extended to 41 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases.
At yesterday's closing price of $23.67 the current dividend yield is 4.7%.
Given the cash outlay to acquire Western Pneumatic Tube we did not complete any open market purchases of our stock during the first quarter.
However consistent with our stated priorities for use of excess cash flow we expect eventually to resume buying back our stock subject to the outlook to the outlook for the economy our level of cash generation and other potential opportunities to grow the company.
For the full year with strong cash generation we expect to repurchase some number of our shares but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
We have a standing authorization from our Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that began January 1 2010 we have so far generated TSR of 12% per year on average which matches the return of the S&amp;P 500 index over that same time period.
So with those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Karl? Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
First quarter same location sales in Residential Furnishings segment increased 7% from a combination of unit volume growth and raw material related price inflation.
In our U.S.
Spring business innerspring unit volumes increased 3% and boxspring units were flat.
In our Furniture Hardware business unit volume decreased 10% versus the prior year.
Again this quarter we had significant growth in adjustable beds with unit shipments of 48%.
Sales also grew in carpet underlay Geo Components and consumer products.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the segment decreased versus the first quarter last year primarily from the absence of a gain from a building sale that occurred in early 2011.
The earnings benefit from slightly higher unit volumes in the current quarter was partially offset by raw material inflation and a less favorable sales mix.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment first quarter same location sales decreased 8% from lower Fixture &amp; Display volume.
This decrease resulted in a large part from lower spending by a single large value-oriented retailer.
Sales in Office Furniture components increased slightly during the quarter.
Volume in this business continues to generally track the overall recovery in the office furniture industry.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the segment decreased slightly versus first quarter of 2011 primarily from the absence of a gain from a building sale that occurred early last year.
The earnings impact from lower sales in the current quarter was more than offset by a gain from the sale of our U.K.
based Point of Purchase business in January benefits from restructuring activity and other cost savings.
In the Industrial Materials segment first quarter same location sales increased 6% with growth from steel-related price inflation slightly offset by union volume declines.
Overall unit volumes were lower led by a decrease in shipments of wire and rod.
EBIT decreased in the quarter primarily due to a $3 million acquisition-related fair value adjustment to inventory.
Earnings benefits from the recently completed acquisition and the plant  consolidations announced in late 2011 were largely offset in the quarter by lower unit volumes and unusually high workers compensation expense.
EBIT margins were further compressed by the inflation driven sales increase as this revenue growth brought little incremental profit.
As Dave mentioned earlier the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition which resides in the Industrial Materials segment is exceeding our performance expectations.
We continue to expect this business to produce full-year 2012 margins greater than the company average.
First and second quarter's results will reflect approximately $3 million of charges from acquisition-related fair value adjustments.
Since those charges do not repeat segment margin should improve appreciably in the back half of the year.
In the Specialized Products segment first quarter sales increased 6% entirely from growth in automotive.
Machinery sales were down slightly in the quarter and commercial vehicle product sales were up significantly compared to first quarter of last year.
EBIT was flat and EBIT margins decreased during the quarter.
Higher sales and the non-recurrence of last year's impairment charges contributed favorably to EBIT but these improvements were offset by several items including higher raw material cost litigation reserves less favorable sales mix and higher R&amp;D spending.
Automotive industry forecasts anticipate continued growth in global production rates in 2012.
But the outlook varies by geography.
North America and Asia are both expected to have meaningful production growth but European forecasts are negative as economic concerns linger.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
We're pleased that certain economic factors have improved modestly in recent months.
With first quarter results ahead of our internal forecast we are increasing our full-year 2012 guidance modestly to a range of $1.25 to $1.45 per share up from our previous range of $1.20 to $1.40 per share.
We are also increasing our full-year guidance sales guidance that is to $3.65 billion to $3.85 billion which is up from our previous range of $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion.
We continue to expect the restructuring related activities that we initiated in 2011 in total to add $0.07 to $0.10 per share to our 2012 earnings.
We also anticipate the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition to be modestly accretive to the full year's earnings here in its first year.
These improvements are largely offset by a higher anticipated full-year effective tax rate and interest expense which negatively impact earnings by approximately $0.10 per share $0.08 of that for the tax rate and $0.02 for interest.
Now with those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we'll now try to answer any questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate as we typically do we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please re-enter the queue.
Melissa we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Leah Villalobos with Longbow Research.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the U.S.
Springs business.
I know [indiscernible] is the sample it was just a sample of the overall industry but I was wondering if you feel like your performance in the quarter is more representative of kind of what you're seeing in the overall industry or if there's some other things kind of going on there? Good morning Leah.
This is Karl.
As you inferred that ISPA the quarterly results were released not before last.
And while we believe that the ISPA results are a good barometer of change from a sequential movement standpoint that as you infer that they only captured 65% of the industry units.
So I believe we believe that the January and February results were probably overstated and the March results were a catch up.
As are -- as we state that our innerspring units were up 3% we think that that is an appropriate reflection of the industry.
The ISPA statistics show that March innersprings were up 9.4% in units our experience was a couple percent off.
We believe that as a better barometer of the macro industry.
So I don't think investors should view the March ISPA results as falling off a cliff we know that that in fact didn't happen.
But we do think that it's a normalization of stronger than probably was accurate January and February results.
Now I want to make it clear I am not in any way taking issue with ISPA.
They are just reporting the data that's given to them so.
That's really helpful.
Would you be willing to comment on kind of just what you're seeing here so far through April? Yes.
Actually Leah why don't I want to walk you back and this will help a little bit that from our first quarter that we saw really abnormal strength in innerspring unit sales in January and February.
With January up 6% February up about 6% also and as I said off a couple points in March.
And through the 15 shipping days of April we're seeing about flat units which would correlate to what we heard at the High Point Market this last weekend where it feels like things have moderated from a demand perspective as things typically do.
This is -- all we're doing is experiencing normal seasonality.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then so your outlook I guess for the year then doesn't change as it relates to the bedding business? No I will note that ISPA recently increased their 2012 forecast for -- they  originally had forecasted units up 1% now they're at 3.5% up.
We think that that's probably a pretty good indicator of what we should expect for the full-year.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Back on residential on margins.
If I back out that building gain it's kind of flattish year-over-year in margins.
If you continue this sort of revenue pace would we start to see the margins expand this year? And if so what kind of what time period would that start to occur? Keith the answer is yes.
You should see an expansion in margins that we had an abnormally weak mix in the first quarter with Furniture Hardware sales off 10%.
And if you'll allow me I'd like to speak to that very issue for just a second.
That from a headline perspective that may look pretty negative as it does but our first quarter experience was pretty choppy and that the December sales of furniture hardware were actually up 7.5%.
They were up 12% from our international locations.
We believe there was a significant pull forward by our customers because of an unusually early Chinese New Year so we saw a pull forward into December of 2011.
The January of 2012 experience was particularly negative with units off 30% remembering that Chinese New Year was in January this year February last and sort through the whole thing and we ended up in experiencing units down 10%.
Oddly or I guess appreciatively that unit sales were up 3% in March.
So it wasn't a train wreck.
From a full disclosure perspective I do want to make comment that we have lost a little bit of market share in Furniture Hardware to a Chinese-based finished furniture manufacturer that does make some of their own lower value mechanisms.
We believe that that is completed all -- or that exposure is behind us all the pickup in March.
So that mix of negative hardware is negative to us in the first quarter while we very much appreciate a pick up in carpet units which was up about 6% to 7%.
And a pickup in Geo Components sales those 2 have lower contribution margins than Furniture in total.
So certainly a negative mix in the first quarter that we don't expect to continue.
In addition we're in the process of passing through some price increases particularly in the U.S.
Spring market based on some inflation some January steel inflation that ran through the quarter.
And obviously some inflation in fuel costs.
So we believe the second quarter will have a good bit of that through the system and be fully through the system by the first day of the third quarter.
Keith this is Dave I know your question was specific to Residential but it would be reasonable to assume that we would see some even more meaningful margin expansion as the year goes forward in a couple of the other segments.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up question on your demand comments before do you feel like that's the kind of year we're going to be in where you're going to have one month that's positive one month that's flat -- just kind of up and down and it will all add up to a positive year? Do you think that will be the trend?.
Well Keith none of us could have forecasted the lack of winter.
So we probably had a pull forward in January and February.
A wonderfully strong Presidents' Day.
I do believe that the consumer is very sensitive and we need to look at consumer confidence numbers.
Hopefully they'll be confident around the all important Memorial and 4th of July Labor Day selling day period.
But yes we do expect choppiness.
And the bogeyman that's out there from a future perspective is the election.
And what happens to consumer confidence around the election? We believe it will be a contentious election we also believe that it will be a very expensive election that will force our retailer customers to spend a little bit more on advertising.
So there's some concern around all of those impacts.
So yes choppiness is where we are.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is back to Residential on the mix in answering that question Karl you were I guess talking about mix between bedding and furniture components.
I'm wondering if you could dive into the mix that's within the bedding what did you see in the mix within furniture components.
That's a good question.
Generally the first quarter is our most negative mix of the year from a bedding perspective in that.
We sell a lot of units we sell more units now in the first quarter than any quarter of the year.
It is highly correlated to tax refunds it tends to be more promotional than the mix it will enjoy through the full-year.
As an example that our promotional product sales were up significantly but are actually our fastest-growing product category is Comfort Core our answer to Pocketed Coil.
We expect that mix based on some large customers' introductions that appear to be very successfully implemented and well received in the market that that mix will improve as the year goes on we experienced the same thing in furniture.
That there's a little bit of a low-end mix just because of the highly promotional around tax refund season.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karl when we were out at Vegas you had expressed some hope about the growth you're seeing in Hybrid beds -- did that not help the first quarter at all? Or what's the prospect for that help if any as we go through the year? There's very little help in the first quarter.
Serta just started shipping in iSeries about a month ago.
I know that the new Simmons product which is Hybrid was shipped in about that same timeframe as was the new Sealy Hybrid product.
We believe that that product -- that series of product is being very well received.
We think the customer has -- the consumer the end consumer has a deep appreciation for the support that an innerspring provides in a core augmented by the stories that they're being told of the specialty sleep applications to the top.
So it will help the year as the year progresses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I wonder if I could just sneak one more in and jump over the retail store fixtures and display.
We'll leave the name of the large discount retailer as private.
But I guess I'd love to look at that business in 2 buckets.
One that customer and what are they dealing with you and what are your expectation now for the year? And then secondly everything else within store fixtures and display.
Okay.
John that customer being Walmart is the largest historically the largest retailer obviously in the world the largest customer of our store fixtures business.
In 1Q of 2011 they were very aggressively remodeling and you'll remember that they made a very public statement in the March June timeframe of last year that they were going to slow their remodels and invest in other selling practices looking at smaller stores and experimenting with different footprints.
And that continues.
So we continue to enjoy a very good relationship with them they continue to remodel but at a slower pace and we expect that they'll continue to remodel at a slower pace through this year until they figure out what their strategy from a long-term go-forward is.
We're very well-placed with them.
Certainly have a good relationship and they're doing well in the marketplace.
But what you should expect is a strong third quarter in store fixtures because of our position gained with some other retailers.
You'll remember John that the third quarter historically had been the strongest selling season for store fixtures as those retailers position themselves for the holiday selling season.
You should have that expectation which has not been the case for the last 3 or 4 years but have that expectation that that historical trend should take place in 3Q will be by far and away the largest quarter in store fixtures ...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like Karl Walmart will be down for the year again.
And then the rest of it what? Offsets makes it up puts us ahead still down? That's our expectation.
We are still hopeful that Walmart will kick in more of their remodels in the back half.
But we do not know that at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We appreciate the transparency of Leggett.
Appreciate the fact that the guidance for the year is modestly up.
I want to take a little bit longer term question go back to a question that we asked I guess in the middle part of '09 which was that the road map to a place where the dividend is no longer going to be kind of 77% to 90% of earnings.
I know appreciate the TSR metric and those things but the dividend continues to increase and earnings really do not.
And David I know we've been through kind of a long simulations of number simulations of how we get to $2.
I kind of want to reflect back on that and maybe readdress that whole issue of how we get to $2 and now we need to get to $2 plus to get to your eventual goal of a dividend payout of 50% or so.
If we go back to when we first discussed that $2 a share concept and the assumptions used in that concept it's certainly something that we're comfortable with and the assumptions occurred and we didn't anticipate that we'd see this sort of economic downturn.
That could come across as an excuse I certainly don't mean it that way.
We still have a significant very significant amount of earnings power in the company and especially when you take a look at our production capacity utilizations which are up incidentally this first quarter.
We're pleased to see that almost across the board in the various units.
But what it's going to take is increased demand capacity utilization.
The concept or the leverage that that incremental volume has is still real.
In some cases the leverage is -- starts with a four handle it has a 40% impact.
In some cases it's 18% 19% but on average we still feel comfortable with that 25% to 30% 35% leverage Budd.
And so when will it happen? It'll be a function of when that demand continues I mean when the demand reaches the level that provides us the capacity utilizations that we want and need to get there.
I don't know how to predict that.
I know that if we say -- if we just threw our revenue number out it's challenging because we don't know how much inflation or deflation may come into that.
I'm still very comfortable as a shareholder and as part of the management team here that we will be able to continue to reduce our payout ratio going forward and ultimately get into that range of 50% to 60% payout ratio.
I know it's frustrating for certain investors.
We're very comfortable that we'll be able to achieve that.
We just need the demand.
And like I said I don't want to get too optimistic but the first quarter I'm looking at the production capacity utilization chart right now is very encouraging in that regard.
So as we see these margins expand in the second third and the fourth quarter relative to last year we can even seek more comfort in that thinking.
Anybody else want to add something to that though? No I would pile on a little bit Budd and that I absolutely subscribe to what Dave said that we did -- Susan did a very in-depth contribution analysis not very long ago.
It's data that we continually test.
As Dave said we need a mix of unit growth and we feel very good about it.
We appreciate the fact that we are seeing the benefits of every one of the restructuring events that took place in the fourth quarter of last year.
We measure them very carefully.
They're very trackable and while they were difficult decisions we made the right decisions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe share some of that contribution margin at least on the surface as we'd look at it? And just by the numbers year-over-year the contribution margin really is pretty much 0 this quarter on a year-over-year basis.
I didn't quite do it yet season -- sequentially but where do we see it? How do we get more comfort to investors and to us that you're actually on track for that? Budd I'm going to speak to that just from a high level standpoint.
And folks will find some of these details in the slides that we posted yesterday.
Slide #4 is a bridge from last year's to this year's sales and EBIT.
And if you recognize that of our total revenue growth there's only about $20 million of that that was from the unit volume increase that is the carrier of this 25 30 35% contribution margin that we talk about.
And when you start with last year's EBIT that was $74 million but I recognize that there were $6 million or so of unusual things that helped that that you're really looking at kind of operationally about $68 million of EBIT.
And conversely when you look at this year's $75 million of EBIT in the first quarter and again adjust that for things that we've talked about that are a little bit out of the ordinary including the gain from the divestiture and some of the acquisition-related adjustments then you're somewhere around $75 million $76 million of EBIT.
That increase which is about $8 million when you take that noise out on $20 million of volume and in addition rightfully so you should expect and we are realizing operating contribution from the acquisition.
You can see it's just -- what's unfortunate is as always it seems like every quarter a bit of noise here and there whether it's revenue or in a noise or earnings or in a noise.
So it's never just one thing really that's driving our performance.
But when you kind of work through those details that's how I continue to kind of keep comfort with that 25% 30% 35% contribution margin.
And it is mix sensitive to Karl's comment earlier our mix wasn't especially strong in this first quarter with some of the things going on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
One last thing -- just one quick other question Karl.
You had said inflation and I thought you called out steel and I believe energy as well in the first quarter.
As I look at the numbers that I see on the steel basis it looks like scrap went up but rod actually -- the selling price of rod actually went down in the quarter.
Is that -- am I incorrect on that? Some spread narrowed but it was narrowing because of an increase in cost and a little bit of a decrease in the price of the market price of steel rod.
Budd I hate to do this to you considering it's your birthday.
But yes you were wrong on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's okay I'm wrong a lot.
The high carbon rod inflated during the quarter and the spread would've widened as the quarter went on.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question regarding the steel operation.
Most of the industrial companies I've spoken to have said kind of the reverse of your results in that January and February were slow.
March came through better than expected April again better than expected.
In your steel business itself was that similar or also different? As you know our steel business is dedicated solely to long products primary high carbon with specific applications.
Where I do agree with your comments I read a lot of steel company results they tend to be more broad-based in their application of steel with certainly they are steel producers in this country are feeling a significant uptick in demand based on auto sales.
But while -- our steel mill just absolutely does a wonderful job.
They're great people that are dedicated to the business and they had a few challenges in the first quarter that won't repeat.
One is we unfortunately had a crane-related accident.
There was an employee that was hurt.
That employee thankfully is well into recovery and was released from rehabilitation earlier this week and is now at home.
So prayer's been answered.
That is the reference to the worker's comp expanse in industrial.
With that unfortunate incident we did lose some yield in the steel mill.
But a bigger cost impact was there was -- we took an 8-day outage in the mill that was planned that will not repeat and it was dedicated to replacing the finishing end or the packaging line of the rod mill and that is really what the major driver was for our reduced sales.
So you should expect that sales will recover in the second quarter and going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Allen Zwickler with First Manhattan.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe spend 2 minutes on your new acquisition? I mean I -- perhaps you've described it a little bit here and there but just sort of the bid customers and what your expectations are to the extent that you can? I mean I just want to sort of get my arms around.
You sound very excited about it that it's been -- it's certainly a different business than you've been in.
So just if you don't mind maybe spending a minute or 2 on that.
Sure Allen let me start and then Karl can give you some detail.
But one of the things I wanted to reiterate is that when we established some new criteria for acquisitions we set a little bit of a higher bar.
We wanted businesses that had higher technical content.
We wanted businesses that had significant market share.
We wanted businesses that had higher margins higher growth rates and if that wasn't enough we wanted perfect management.
So establishing those criteria gave us a very good screen on some extraordinarily good companies.
Western Pneumatic happened to make that screen and we're very pleased.
I'll let Karl give you some specific details.
Allen the business is dedicated to the manufacturer of tube primarily thin-walled large diameter tubes that go into primarily aerospace applications.
They're vent tubes they're cooling tubes.
You will find their product either titanium nickel or stainless in just about every area of commercial and military aircraft.
The business today's point is extremely well-run.
The large customers would be distributors to the aerospace industry with -- and Western itself enjoys a long-term supply agreement to both Boeing and Airbus.
And as you know Boeing earlier this week reported a wonderful first quarter and in that report said that their backlog is only 4 000 planes.
We went through the Boeing operations with Joe Downes the manager of the Industrial Materials segment and the management team 2 weeks ago in Washington.
And we are very enthused about the acquisition and believe that it allows us to analyze some possibility of some additional acquisitions around that space that would be complementary to the Western play.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you release and I'm sorry if you did then you could just smack me in the head.
But did you release what their last year or last 12 months or however was this -- but this is a private company correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did you release what their sales and earnings were for the prior year and sort of what their growth rate had been? Have you disclosed that to anyone? Yes.
Sales we talked about that and it was ...
It was about $60 million.
$60 million in round numbers.
Research Division</strong> Is that -- that would be a calendar year or their fiscal year whatever however you want to look at it? That was the 2011 calendar.
Research Division</strong> Right so they had $60 million in sales? Yes correct.
And we did not and will not release their earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well could you at least tell us if they were profitable? Yes they're profitable.
And in the conference call script you would've heard us make mention to the fact that the results were above the company average from an EBIT perspective.
And Allen that includes all of the charges that is even with all the charges ...
Research Division</strong> Well that's what I was going to say.
When you loaded up with the amortization but not interest obviously right? I mean I just want to make clear what your definition is when you say it's above the corporate average would that -- are you assuming the goodwill in the -- the amortization in there on the interest expense or combination? Yes.
Fully burdened it's above the corporate average.
Allen this is Matt.
Yes both in EBIT and EBITDA perspective it is above the corporate average it is exceeding our expectations.
Another aspect of this particular business that is beneficial is the predictability of the future cash flows is better than a lot of other businesses as Karl mentioned with a backlog that Boeing Airbus and other folks have we feel very good about the next several years and beyond as best we can of the reliability and predictability of those cash flows.
And that helps us quite a bit in terms of our comfort with the investment as well as the prospects for it going forward.
Research Division</strong> And was this a competitive auction or were you the only guy in town or have you disclosed that? It was a competitive situation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question is just keeping that along is that and you'll pardon me for asking this what is the corporate average? I mean it's -- you've had -- again that's been a number that's been bouncing around a lot.
So what -- when you say the corporate average could you tell us what that is or what you used? The point of guidance this year would be 8.6% EBIT margin.
That's EBIT and EBITDA based upon the guidance is about 12%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you're referring to it's better than that that's -- those are the numbers that we could use.
And again just to clarify so the fully loaded number is better than that? Is that correct? Correct.
Fully loaded EBIT with amortization and all the other acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And how did you pay -- end up paying for this acquisition? What was the final way that you spent the money? Did you just borrow under your line? Did you use some cash? Yes we borrowed under our line predominantly Allen.
We had a as you know $600 million facility which is about $300 million borrowed right now and that acquisition was $180 million in January.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you just use your line you didn't use an existing cash.
Right? That's -- well yes the cash flow we're generating is all part of the equation.
But in essence we used the line's capacity to help fund that transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could I sneak in one more related unrelated to that? The Residential excuse me the office products business or the office commercial business could you just characterize how that is these days? I mean for a while there it looked like it was really humming along notwithstanding that nobody's in offices anymore.
So how would you categorize that business these days? Just from a mix and a profit standpoint? It continues to hum along rather well and it is up against some very difficult comps.
So we feel good about that business if there's a little cloud in the broader office space it's the lack of government spending.
So you would've heard that in some of our customers' calls.
But our take up there from a sales perspective was slightly better than flat in the first quarter which is notable because it was up against a such a difficult comp.
We expect to run positive to the remainder of the year.
Mr.
DeSonier that's the end of our questions.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Okay.
We'll just say we appreciate your questions and your attention and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you.
Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's second quarter conference call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Dave will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl will provide operating highlights; Dave will then address our full year outlook for 2012; and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contains summary of financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning and thank you all for participating in our call.
We are pleased with the second quarter earnings and margin improvement we reported yesterday.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.45 compared to $0.37 during the second quarter of last year.
Second quarter 2012 earnings include a $0.04 per share unusual tax benefit and a $0.02 per share benefit in discontinued operations from a litigation settlement associated with the previously divested business.
Second quarter of last year earnings included $0.02 per share unusual tax benefit.
Second quarter same location sales were down 2% from the prior year primarily due to lower trade sales from our Rod mill currency rates and lower store fixtures sales a portion of which was volume we chose to exit.
Apart from these 3 factors same location sales increased 2%.
Unit volumes were flat to positive across the majority of the company and the strongest growth continuing -- with the strongest growth continuing to come from our automotive and adjustable bed businesses.
EBIT increased and EBIT margins improved both year-over-year and sequentially to 9.2% during the quarter.
Earnings are benefiting as expected from higher unit volumes and the cost savings associated with the restructuring activities we initiated in late 2011.
In addition the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition that we completed in January is exceeding our expectation for strong operating performance.
We are very pleased with the return we're generating on this investment.
Reflecting our broad focus on returns we ended the quarter with working capital at 12% of annualized sales.
Current liabilities include $41 million associated with an interest rate swap that we entered in 2010.
Excluding this item working capital was 13.1% of annualized sales well below our 15% target.
Cash from operations was strong during the quarter at $81 million.
We expect operating cash for the full year of approximately $350 million which had once again comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
Capital expenditures should be approximately $90 million this year and dividends should require about $160 million.
We continue to maintain our strong financial base and ended the second quarter with net debt at 33% of net capital which is within our long-term target range of 30% to 40%.
In May we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.28 per share.
2012 marks the 41st consecutive annual dividend increase for the company a record we plan to extend.
At yesterday's closing price of $22.49 the current dividend yield is 5%.
Leggett possesses the highest dividend yield among all of the S&amp;P 500 dividend aristocrats that have over 30 consecutive annual dividend increases.
Given the cash outlay earlier in the year to acquire Western Pneumatic Tube we did not complete any open market purchases of our stock during the second quarter.
However consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we expect eventually to resume buying back our stock subject to the outlook for the economy our level of cash generation and other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or our timetable.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that began January 1 2010 we have so far generated TSR of 8% per year on average or slightly below the midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 companies over that same time period.
With those comments I'll turn the call over now to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
Second quarter same location sales on the Residential Furnishings segment increased 1% with unit volume growth partially offset by the impact of currency exchange rates.
In our U.S.
Spring business innerspring unit volumes increased 2% and boxspring units were down 3%.
Innerspring units in Europe also increased 2% which is notable in this current economic environment.
In our Furniture Hardware business unit volume was flat with the prior year.
Again this quarter we had significant growth in adjustable beds with unit shipments up 20%.
EBIT and EBIT margins in this segment decreased slightly versus the second quarter last year.
The earnings benefit from slightly higher unit volumes in the current quarter was more than offset by weaker mix in certain businesses.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Component segment second quarter same location sales decreased 10% due to lower spending by key Fixture &amp; Display customers and our decision to exit certain programs formerly supplied by operations we have closed or consolidated.
Sales on office furniture components were flat during the quarter which we believe is roughly in line with the overall market for office seating.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the segment decreased versus second quarter of 2011 primarily from lower sales higher restructuring related cost and absence of earnings from the U.K.-based Point of Purchase business we divested in January.
These impacts were partially offset by restructuring-related benefits and better overhead absorption associated with increased production for a major program that will ship in the third quarter.
The seasonality of our Store Fixtures business this year is expected to be consistent with the long-term historical pattern in which third quarter is the sales peak primarily due to a major initiative by one of our large retail customers.
We anticipate an improvement in segment results in the third quarter as a result of this additional volume.
In the Industrial Materials segment second quarter same location sales decreased 5% primarily due to lower trade sales from our rod mill partially offset by increased unit volumes in both Drawn Wire and Steel Tubing.
The decrease in steel rod sales resulted from an equipment change over at the rod mill which was an investment in process and quality improvement.
The installation of the new equipment occurred late in the first quarter and production did not return to normal levels until early May.
EBIT and EBIT margins for the segment increased in the quarter.
Earnings benefit from the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition and the plant consolidations announced in late 2011 contributed to the improvement.
As Dave mentioned earlier the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition which resides in the Industrial Materials segment is exceeding our performance expectations.
We continue to expect this business to produce full year 2012 margins greater than the company average.
In the Specialized Products segment second quarter same location sales increased 5% with unit volume growth partially offset by the impact of currency exchange rates.
The increase in unit volumes resulted entirely from growth on automotive.
Commercial vehicle products sales were roughly flat and machinery sales were down compared to the second quarter of last year.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter largely due to higher sales.
Automotive industry forecast anticipate continued growth in global production in 2012 but the outlook varies by geography.
North America and Asia are both expected to have meaningful production growth but European industry forecast are negative as economic concerns linger.
Despite the macro issues and currency headwinds our automotive sales in Europe are roughly flat during -- were roughly flat during second quarter and were up slightly for the first 6 months of the year.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Karl.
As we announced yesterday we increased our full year guidance to reflect the positive effect of second quarter's unusual items and improved margins.
We now expect full year 2012 EPS of between $1.35 and $1.50 per share up from our previous $1.25 to $1.45 per share estimate on sales of $3.65 billion to $3.8 billion.
We began the year with an appropriately cautious view of the macro environment especially given election-year uncertainties with EPS guidance of $1.20 to $1.40 per share.
We have now raised our full year estimate following both first and second quarters given solid first half performance.
In each of the prior 2 years after the second quarter we were beginning to feel a contraction in our markets and in each case reduced our full year guidance.
That pattern does not seem to be repeating this year.
Still we're maintaining the degree of caution at the low-end of our guidance in the event that we were to experience a minor macro pullback.
And lastly I'd like to say since we know that many of our employee shareholders are listening to our conference today we want to thank them for their past and continued efforts which have contributed to Leggett's improved execution and performance.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer any question.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
On the Residential business Karl you flagged the European spring units up 2% and so that caught my attention as well.
I wonder if you could just dig and give a little more detail on that.
How does that compare to the overall market? Any detail that you could provide there would be helpful.
David we are appreciative of the fact that European spring continues to hold strong.
We are dealing with somewhat of a negative mix in that it feels like that the consumer in Europe is downgrading a little bit that we felt a kind of a margin contraction from the mix from Pocketed Coils to more vinyls.
But we're fortunate in that we're heavy weighted in Europe to the Scandinavians countries Northern Europe and the U.K.
and have lesser exposure to the Southern European countries.
So things are really proceeding well.
We are also benefiting from the de-verticalization of the U.K.
manufacturer earlier this year as part of the Silentnight business.
So that business is good business.
So all things said and done while the margins have been slightly negatively impacted things are proceeding well in Europe and as I noted in my comments we're experiencing the same from an automotive perspective.
Europe has not been a negative issue for Leggett up to this point.
Is that sustainable through the second half? We believe so.
As we talked to our customers.
Europe's always a little bit of a challenge in the third quarter with most of the continent being on holiday shifts the month at a time country by country.
But that's a typical year-on-year comp so we really continue to feel pretty bullish.
And Europe's automotive build forecast for 2012 is still 19 million units.
And it was actually -- the most recent forecast we've just released yesterday and the European auto production estimation was increased slightly.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on that working capital number.
I can't remember the ratio being that low.
Do you remember when it was 20% plus? And so kudos to that.
I wanted to focus I guess on bedding and furniture.
Let's talk U.S.
It would appear to me in bedding we've got high-end springs under some pressure maybe not but certainly middle end shifting down strength in units at lower end.
Where are hybrids? Are they helping yet? Pocketed coils is getting a lot of attention.
Is that helping or are we still looking at a negative mix issue within Leggett on innersprings? And then on residential furniture just relating somehow the flat unit numbers year-over-year what you think your customers are doing and any issues with the foreign competition there.
John this is Karl.
Thanks for opening the door for a conversation on U.S.
spring.
And the news there is very very positive that we are seeing significant positive impact from the launch of the Hybrid product lines.
Comfort Core which is our pocketed coil offering is the fastest growing part of U.S.
frames with units up 20% significantly higher average unit selling prices improved margins associated with that great overhead recovery in our facilities as we continue to work hard to keep up with that demand.
So there is -- while we made comment of a negative mix shift in macro residential U.S.
spring is not impacted to that -- to any degree from an inner spring perspective.
It is impacted from a boxspring perspective.
You are right about the bifurcation of the market but I'd do not think that high-end innerspring has been negatively impacted.
You'll go back to the Sealy conference call they commented that Stearns is growing.
We see that.
We see that in our other customers with competitive offerings high-end innerspring is doing extremely well.
And we are very very bullish and we'll continue to invest capital to support that growth.
The middle market of the bedding industry is under pressure.
The low end or the more promotional or somewhat say non-branded business has been very very strong.
That correlates to our boxspring numbers and that you saw innersprings -- U.S.
innersprings up 2% boxsprings decreased 3%.
I will tell you that is no loss of market share.
It is indicative of fewer boxsprings being sold.
There are no steel boxsprings under the promotional bedding.
As adjustable beds grow significantly that mitigates the need for an adjustable boxspring under that adjustable mattress and some of the specialty suite product very few of the selected -- of the specialty suite product sit on top of a wire-based product.
So all those dynamics don't bode well for boxsprings which is part of our residential mix explanation in that boxspring margins are higher than the rest of the segment.
So there's a lot of moving parts.
As it relates to home furniture that flat unit's certainly from a sequential perspective is an improvement over the first quarter.
We have lost a little bit of market share that we have since regained and we do think that that demand is indicative of the market.
To elaborate on another inference in your question though we are seeing a shift from U.S.-based mechanism production to Chinese-based mechanism production.
That is not a finished furniture mix that is a component mix.
We retain the business in Asia.
So it's not a positive situation for our U.S.
factory workers which we're not fond of that situation.
But we do retain the business and retain it in Asia sometimes with lesser functionality as the furniture industry has become a little bit promotional with the significant inflation of polyurethane foam pricing.
So that is also a negative shift.
The units are there but the average pricings drops slightly And John this is David.
Just kind of a crossover on pocket coils which continued to gain momentum in bedding.
It's also interesting and we may have mentioned to you previously that pocket coils are being considered and indeed utilized in upholstered furniture cushions more than they have in the past for a couple of or for several reasons.
One important one being the cost of the polyurethane foam which is replaced with the air and the wire and the fabric of the pocket coils.
And needless to say it makes a superior seat.
So that's been also a positive trend.
I don't want to spin everything just totally positive but that's something that's significant enough to mention.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chad Bolen with Raymond James.
If I could maybe jump over we're pretty pleased to see the strong contribution margin in Specialized Products.
Could you maybe walk us through some of the moving parts there? And is that kind of performance something that we should expect to persist for the rest of the year? Yes.
It's certainly performance that you should expect for the rest of the year.
Specialized is being helped primarily by the significant growth in automotive units.
Our people have done a really good job of reducing costs during the downturn of a few years ago and not layering in that cost back on.
So we're -- our facilities are very well utilized.
Chad as you remember our Automotive business is a worldwide business so the growth in production doesn't really matter to us as to in what geography it takes place.
So things are good in automotive.
We expect them to be good and not only to the rest of this year but into the foreseeable future years.
There was a little bit of a negative in the second quarter in specialized and that our machinery volume was down slightly.
That's indicative of lesser innerspring machinery demand on the continent of Europe.
We expect some recovery there in the back half of the year.
CVP the sales were flat the profitability was improved certainly not to acceptable levels but let's call it less bad.
And If I could just tuck on another quick one.
I mean obviously in commercial the program that you discussed is going to have a pretty significant impact.
I guess from a modeling perspective could you give us a little help in terms of what your full year guidance assumes for that segment in terms of growth and margin and maybe give us some sense of the magnitude of how that'll balances between 3Q and 4Q? Chad when it comes to details you know I'm smart enough to t.o.
that to Susan but that program certainly is a strong store fixtures program that will really fully ship in the third quarter.
We are  about halfway through that shipment as we speak.
Things are going well and we're extremely pleased but from a split standpoint.
Yes Chad just real quick.
At the midpoint of our sales guidance the total company will be about up 2.5% and thinking about that across the segment that would be approximately [Audio Gap] magnitude of increase in residential.
Commercial likely down around 7% but most of that is the divestiture and the volume that we chose to exit.
I'll just remind you that at the end of last year we saw the combination of those 2 things would probably extract about $40 million of sales for the full year.
Industrial up order of magnitude maybe around 6% but again that's going to include the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition which should have annualized sales in the ballpark of about $65 million and specialized up somewhere on the 5% 5.5% range.
That's full year.
We haven't done anything to try to help you really by quarter.
But you should expect as we alluded to the commercial volume in the third quarter will be -- should have a nice uptick.
And as you'll remember fourth quarter is typically a very low quarter for volume in that segment.
Our next question is coming from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First in Residential.
Karl if you could comment on the sales trends as the quarter progressed in both spring as well as furniture and anything you're seeing here in the first couple of weeks in July.
Keith I'd tell you I appreciate that because it's been also a good news.
So we're pretty optimistic that U.S.
spring shipments were up about a -- about 1% in April 4% in May and then 1% in June we're up a little north of 7% in the first 3 shipping weeks of July that we believe that about half of that is market as a follow-through from a very positive 4th of July selling week and the rest of it is market share gains.
We are starting to finally see some assistance from the custom border protection agency on our anti-dumping issues and it appears that they are starting to help us enforce the U.S.
trade laws which bodes well for us in the back half of the year if that continues.
As it relates to furniture I don't have that broken out by period as much but it strengthened pretty significantly as the second quarter progressed and continues to be reasonably strong as we speak.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And on the working capital number you show on Slide 6 you're down year-over-year on working capital to the tune of about $90 million versus midpoint last year.
Can we see that kind of working capital extraction as we hit year end here in 2012? Yes.
Actually the answer is yes.
There's a couple of changes in working capital and that addition of Western while that business is wonderful business it's not quite as working capital efficient as the rest of the company historically has been because of the nature of auto -- of aerospace build.
But while I appreciate the congratulations on the working capital performance we were a little fat in working capital as it relates to inventory at the end of the second quarter because we were building for this fixtures and displays release.
So I see nothing but positive in the working capital trends.
Again Keith this is Matt I'd just add that as a reminder in both of the first 2 quarters of this year even though the working capital statistics are relatively notable we used over $20 million in each quarter and in the fourth quarter seasonally we always have a significant pick up and a source of cash for working capital and that certainly shall once again repeat that cyclicality this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And finally for you Haffner I need a Missouri win in early September against Georgia...
I'll do what I can Keith.
But there's been some trash talking that's happening around our corporate office from some Georgia graduates.
But we'll do what we can my friend.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Kelly with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a question on how scrap prices have trended throughout the year here if you received the benefit of the margin thus far in '12.
And then expectations for the second half of the year looks like the market is at least rumored to recover a little bit beginning August? Bob from the macro market perspective the scrap has fallen off from April to July about $100 a ton.
We expect about $50 of inflation re-inflation now between the next couple quarters.
The margins have been improved.
We will see some -- the closer we get to commodity in our steel mill being billets impacted before rod rod before wire that we are starting to see a little bit of top line deflation because of the connectivity to scrap and we expect that to kind of reinflate as the year progresses.
But the trends are certainly positive in that business from a margin perspective.
And Bob this is Dave I was just looking at our forecast for master coil and slit.
We're expecting a modest decline in this third quarter that we're in and then just another modest uptick in the fourth quarter.
Really not much to move the needle.
Inc.</strong> And then just one final one on Western Pneumatic.
You might've touched on it already.
You stated that things are going better than expected.
Is that on the sales and margin front? And then the drags the inventory valuation some of the items that depressed that contribution in the first half of the year are they completely gone now? Bob as it relates to the performance it's positive on both fronts.
Certainly from a demand perspective and then the associated recovery of that has expanded those margins.
We still do have some inventory valuation hangover that will pass through in the third quarter.
LLC</strong> And then it's complete? Yes.
Our next question is coming from the line of Herb Hardt of Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on the last question and Western Tube.
As I remember there was a $3 million evaluation change in the first quarter and supposedly the same in the June quarter.
First of all is that still true and how much would it be for the September quarter? You're right about the first quarter Herb.
It was about $3 million.
We had another call it $1 million in the second quarter and there's about $1.5 million that remains that will come through third quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the next question is on the 2 million shares you're giving employees.
Is that going to be issued out of the treasury or will be bought back in the open market under your "eventual" buyback return? We anticipate that we'll buy those back Herb.
And Herb from a point of clarification those shares aren't given to the employees.
A good percentage of those shares are purchased by the employees admittedly at a slight discount but I don't want any  listener to think that that is a gift.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up from John Baugh with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> CVP.
I don't know anything about that business.
Tell me what's going on all of the fleet stuff how you're positioned any competitive dynamics et cetera.
As you know it's a relatively small business that -- it is a fleet vehicle business and basically what we're doing is up-fitting delivery vans with Rack &amp; Bin Systems that are then sold into the telecom TV service the Sear's service groups.
It's a difficult business to forecast in that because the releases tend to be large and difficult to forecast and then we're also -- at the whim is too strong.
But if the OEM vehicle manufacturers then push those fleets through into our system on a difficult-to-predict basis because remember their primary business is in auto and truck manufacturing so it's a difficult business.
Our shares are reasonable and it's certainly been under pressure in the last couple of years and as I said it continues to improve.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then touching on this large customer that you're making this store display shipment to without naming names what is the implication as we look say the fourth quarter and more importantly beyond 2013 maybe even '14 are they through their bottleneck? We don't know what we're going to do now we've decided and this clears the path to better volume for them for some foreseeable time or is this kind of a one-shot deal? It is a single order that affects 5 different departments within this particular retail -- retailer.
And as I said about half of it has already been shipped.
It will all be shipped in the third quarter.
There is no forecast.
There's certainly forecast of sales to that customer in the fourth quarter but they would be normal sales.
We are very optimistic because of our -- really to this point really well-executed performance by our people.
Our people have been working literally night and day getting these releases out and the products have been shipped on time with high quality and have really done a commendable job.
And we have been congratulated by that retailer at this point and are very optimistic that we will be in the front of the line for some of their planned releases in 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right and then lastly if I can sneak one more.
CRI numbers were pretty weak.
Carpet shipments in Q2 can you talk about your Underlayment business? Actually that's a good situation for us.
It's been a little bit negative to the residential margins but our square yards of carpet underlay and you know this but not all the listeners do that it's a U.S.
business only.
We're up about 6% in the second quarter and strengthened as the quarter went on.
With the housing statistics being somewhat improved that's good for that business.
Admittedly the margins are below the segment and corporate average but are certainly improving.
That business is no longer a drag from a P&amp;L perspective.
Again the margins aren't where we -- where they historically have been but our people continue to execute well on that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karl I think residential carpets shipments were down in the low to mid-single digits.
So is there something going on in share? Why would you be up like that? We are extremely well positioned from a geographic standpoint and I do believe that we are getting -- we're experiencing some share gains particularly in the south and southeast.
Our next question is coming from the line of Allen Zwickler with First Manhattan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one is what is the size today of your Fixture &amp; Display business leaving out the truck business just roughly.
What's the run rate? About $280 million.
Research Division</strong> And how does that compare say with 2 or 3 years ago? You've always talked about rightsizing it and I'm just a little unclear as to how big it was at a  point in time.
Approximately half of what it once was.
Research Division</strong> And the $280 million is that the current run rate meaning about what it will be this year? Yes that's the 2012 forecast.
Research Division</strong> And are the margins higher or lower than the corporate average in that business? They are lower.
They are improving but they're lower.
Research Division</strong> Improving okay.
But you are profitable is that correct? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that about the right size given the capacity that you have or do you still have excess capacity in that business? We have really very little excess capacity but remember that that business is extremely seasonal.
It always has been and most probably always will be.
So the capacity has to be at a level to allow for the surge that takes place historically in the third quarter.
But the business right now for the business that we have in hand is rightsized.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then switching over from -- back to the bedding business.
You're talking about some of these newer products and I just wanted to step back for a minute and think about furniture/bedding.
Is there any change in -- I remember in the old days there were a lot of living room furniture that had springs in it beds in it.
Are you active in that market? I mean I'm sorry just not to remember but we barely ever talked about it.
And if so do these new styles or designs of beds have any bearing on that business? They're really distinctly different.
In that old sofa sleeper business we are a large participant and believe were the largest producer of sofa sleeper mechanisms in the world but...
Research Division</strong> That's what I recall yes.
The market is significantly smaller today than it once was growth of daybeds really took the legs out and then ultimately futons we're going way back in time.
But yes that business is a good business and we continues to participate in it and we are very happy with the business.
It's a little bit of a buggy whip business but we're good at it..
And Allen this is David.
One thing I would say the advent of some of the alternative sleep systems in adult bedding have spilled over a bit into sofa sleepers.
Those used to be considered -- I mean going way way back considered poor quality sleep services and things have gotten significantly better including the application of pneumatic bladders on top of springs and so you won't kill your mother in law with one of these new ones.
Research Division</strong> When you again are talking about these new mechanisms I'm going back to the bedding business.
Is it a zero-sum game meaning that if for example as you mentioned you're doing particularly well on the high end with some of these new styles I'm calling them because I don't have a better word is it that -- the volume just overall is flat and you may be getting some new business and losing that middle part as you mentioned? I just want understand the dynamics a little more.
It's not clear to me.
Actually it's not a zero-sum game and that because of the growth of the high end inner spring business at significantly higher average unit selling prices that it's been positive to us but that has been a very recent trend.
Research Division</strong> Recent meaning in the calendar year or in the last few years? Growing in the last few years more significant in the last 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so what you're saying is that you're getting more pieces on a particular product than you were before is that -- am I hearing you right? That's correct.
Allen that goes back to the Pocketed Coil Comfort Core conversation we had a little while ago where that business is growing significantly...
Research Division</strong> That's what I was trying to understand whether it's growing at the expense of something else or is it growing because you're getting more components on a box or an assembly.
Is that what you're saying? In terms of units it's growing at the expense of something else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just not to monopolize but is the profitability and competitiveness of these new products the same better or worse than the old-style products as you see them now? It is better.
Research Division</strong> On all counts? Yes.
Our next question coming from the line from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Just a follow-up on the adjustable beds.
What's the right way to think of a contribution margin on that product category? David it's certainly at the rate of growth that the contribution margin is consistent with our formerly stated range of 25 to 35.
It certainly falls in that.
That business has been wonderful for us and it -- a little bit goes back to the long conversation we just had with Allen and that we're replacing a boxspring that from our steel component form sells to the customer say at $15 with an adjustable bed that has an average unit selling price say of $600.
So in that small part of the market it's only about 2% of all foundations are adjustable but it's growing very very quickly.
So that's a good trend.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you for your attention and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Thank you gentlemen.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Second Quarter (sic) [ Third Quarter ] 2012 Earnings.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Inc.
Thank you Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's Third Quarter Conference Call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman who is our Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Karl Glassman will provide operating highlights.
Dave will then address our outlook for the remainder of the year and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This call is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contains summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
Before I start my formal comments I want to let everyone know that our thoughts and prayers go out to all of our friends and indeed all of the folks that are being affected by this horrific storm Sandy.
We're especially sensitive to the trauma that such weather-related events can cause and we hope the best for the many people dealing with this horrific storm.
So now I'll commence my formal comments.
We're very pleased with our third quarter results.
As we reported yesterday earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $0.45 during the quarter compared to earnings of $0.31 per share in the third quarter last year.
Third quarter same-location sales increased 3% over the third quarter of 2011.
Unit volumes increased 7% but were partially offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill and changes in currency rates.
Sales grew in several of our major businesses including store fixtures automotive U.S.
spring furniture components adjustable bed carpet underlay and commercial vehicle products.
As expected we realized significant earnings leverage on the higher sales during the quarter.
EBIT increased and EBIT margins improved both year-over-year and sequentially to 10.7%.
Earnings benefited from higher unit volumes lower raw material costs in some of our operations and cost improvements associated with restructuring activities.
In addition the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition that we completed in January continues to exceed our expectation for strong operating performance and contributed to the earnings and margin improvement during the quarter.
Optimizing returns continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 13.2% of annualized sales well below our 15% target.
We generated $95 million of cash from operations during the quarter.
For the full year we expect operating cash of more than $350 million which will once again comfortably exceed the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
Capital expenditures should be approximately $80 million this year and dividends should require about $160 million.
In anticipation of long-term debt maturing next April during the quarter we took advantage of the current attractive interest rate environment and issued $300 million of 10-year notes.
With the proceeds we reduced our use of commercial paper during the quarter and ended with nearly $600 million available under the existing commercial paper program.
Our financial base remains very strong.
We ended September with net debt at 33% of net capital which is comfortably within our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.29 per share.
2012 marks the 41st consecutive annual dividend increase for the company a record we plan to extend.
At Friday's closing price of $25.40 the current dividend yield is 4.6%.
Leggett possesses the highest dividend yield among all of the S&amp;P 500's Dividend Aristocrats that have over 30 consecutive annual dividend increases.
Given the cash outlay earlier in the year to acquire Western Pneumatic Tube our share repurchases have been at levels well below those of recent years.
During the third quarter we purchased 600 000 shares of our stock bringing our year-to-date total to 1 million shares.
Consistent with our stated priorities for uses of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock subject to the outlook for the economy our level of cash generation and other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that began January 1 2010 we have so far generated TSR of 14% per year on average which places us in the upper half of the S&amp;P 500 companies over that same time period.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find segment details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
Third quarter same-location sales in the Residential Furnishings segment increased 2% with 4% unit volume growth partially offset by changes in currency rates.
In our U.S.
spring business sales were up 5%.
Innerspring unit volumes grew 5% and boxspring units increased 3%.
Growth of Comfort Core which is our pocketed coil product offering continues to significantly outpace the other innerspring categories and was up 34% in the third quarter.
This is being driven by higher growth rates in the premium portion of the mattress market along with strong market reception of hybrid mattresses.
European spring sales were down 10% reflecting a 4% decrease in unit volume and changes in currency rates.
Sales were also down in the other parts of international spring and these volume declines continue to pressure segment margins.
Furniture group sales increased 4% with flat unit volumes in our motion hardware business augmented by continued solid performance in our seating components and sofa sleeper businesses.
Again this quarter we have significant growth in adjustable beds with unit shipments up 21%.
We also had meaningful sales growth in carpet underlay.
Performance is improving in carpet underlay but growth in this business is dilutive to overall segment margins since it has inherently lower EBIT margins than other parts of the segment.
EBIT and EBIT margins in the segment increased versus the third quarter last year primarily reflecting higher unit volumes and lower raw material costs in certain businesses.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales increased 21% in the third quarter.
Fixture and display sales increased significantly as anticipated primarily from strong sales activity with JCP or JCPenney to us older folks.
Sales in the office furniture components were down slightly during the quarter which we're -- which we believe is roughly in line with the overall market for office seating.
We were pleased to see significant earnings and margins improvement in the segment during the quarter.
EBIT and EBIT margins increased to the highest level in several years primarily benefiting from the increased sales and cost improvements that have been implemented in recent years.
The seasonality of our store fixtures business this year is expected to be consistent with the historical pattern in which fourth quarter sales EBIT and margins are significantly lower than third quarter.
Retailers generally plan the majority of their remodeling and new store activities so that it's complete ahead of the holiday season.
This results in lower volume levels within the store fixtures industry during the fourth quarter.
In the Industrial Materials segment third quarter same-location sales decreased 8%.
Lower trade sales from our rod mill more than offset 2% unit volume growth in other parts of the segment.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the quarter was largely offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales.
So total rod production in the quarter was roughly flat with the prior year.
The rod mill continues to run at 100% capacity utilization.
Despite the negative sales headlines they create lower trade sales of the rod mill are not negative to earnings if production levels are stable and we're consuming the rod in our own wire mills.
EBIT and EBIT margins for the segment increased in the quarter primarily due to lower raw material costs in certain businesses earnings from the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition and cost savings from plant consolidations.
As Dave mentioned earlier we continue to be very pleased with the performance of the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition.
The business is on track to comfortably exceed our initial first year forecast and as previously stated should produce full year 2012 margins greater than the company average.
In the Specialized Products segment third quarter same-location sales increased 2% with 5% unit volume growth partially offset by changes in currency rates.
Unit volumes increased in both automotive and commercial vehicle products during the quarter.
These improvements were partially offset by lower machinery sales.
The increase in automotive sales reflect strong growth in both North America and Asia but sales decreases in Europe from changes in currency rates and lower volumes.
EBIT and EBIT margins increased during the quarter primarily from higher sales.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
As we announced yesterday we again increased our full year guidance to reflect solid operating performance and improving margins.
We now expect full year 2012 earnings of between $1.45 and $1.52 per share.
This is up from our previous $1.35 to $1.50 per share estimate on sales of $3.7 billion to $3.75 billion.
This full year guidance implies fourth quarter earnings of $0.25 to $0.32 per share on sales of approximately $830 million to $880 million.
The expected decrease in both sales and EPS versus the third quarter reflects the seasonality that Karl mentioned related to our store fixtures business and also the normal seasonal decline we typically experience in both the Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segment.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we'll be glad to try and answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Kanisha we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Baugh from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on sofas and sleepers.
Is there a share gain story there or a year-over-year comparison story or a lift in that business? John this is Karl.
There's a -- really a shift that's in place from Asian manufacturing to U.S.
assembly of finished furniture products.
Our position our market position is stronger in North America than it is with lower end more commodity-type products that are sold in Asia.
So that in our seating and distribution business which is a part of home furnishings we are significantly being impacted in those categories: sofa sleepers; sinuous wire; welt cord; all of those ancillary products to upholstered furniture assembly in the U.S.
I don't think that there's a significant market share -- market uplift in the sale of sofa sleepers to the end consumer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Karl has this just sort of developed or when did this develop? And what would be say going forward the next few quarters the year-over-year comparison if this trend stays in place? The trend has been growing for the last few quarters.
We would expect all things being equal that it will continue to accelerate based on all of the cost-inflation drivers that you're well aware of in Asia.
So we expect the trend to continue but again it has been growing over the last few quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on U.S.
innerspring I assume there was some level of sequential deceleration as the quarter went on.
I think you gave us some hints early to the quarter in the last conference call.
I'm just curious first of all do I have that right? And secondly is this all related to the election cycle? Or how do you sort of see the fourth quarter playing out in U.S.
innerspring and of course I know you got the Comfort Core story going on there so intertwine all that with your thoughts? John what we saw is -- as you'll remember from our second quarter call is that July sales were up 7% that they softened in August with sales up only 1% and then restrengthened in September with unit sales up 6% for the total quarterly sales of 5% growth.
So I know that that contradicts with the -- it's the numbers.
Our sales trends are our sales trends.
So the Labor Day holiday was very very strong.
Those September numbers continued into October with October units up 2% to 3%.
Again as you commented we are seeing a significantly stronger mix of higher-end products that it's interesting to us that when we look year-on-year from an innerspring unit perspective promotional innersprings which are Bonnells and VertiCoils kind of the low end only grew about 1.5% units.
The higher end or the what we call premium innerspring Comfort Core being part of that grew 13%.
So there was 230 basis point shift in premium from promotional.
We expect that trend will continue.
Not all Comfort Core is a part of hybrid but there is certainly a mixed shift.
And those premium price points which we define premium at retail of between $1 000 and $2 000 at queen is certainly growing.
Question come from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karl I want to just explore a little bit further.
You were starting to talk about the open core versus the Comfort Core and what you're seeing there in terms of unit growth.
Is that a trend? You say that trend is going to continue? And Leggett has historically I thought had a much favored position in kind of open coil and it was the most profitable part of your business.
Am I mistaken on that? And how do you think about that going forward? You're not mistaken in that we have a large position in that market.
It is profitable business for us.
It significantly contributes through our value chain through the wire mills back up to the Sterling rod mill.
But the higher-end product the proprietary product the continuous wires the pocketed coil products all have a significantly higher average unit selling price and equal to or greater margin percentages.
So that secular change to premium product is good for us.
I don't want for a second to any listener to think that the promotional category is not important.
It is very very important so keeping with the Harry Cornell mantra "but we want it all" and we feel really good about where we're positioned in U.S.
spring.
And Budd this is Dave.
We're continuing to aggressively expand our productive capacity in pocketed coils through acquisition of equipment from our Spuhl subsidiary in anticipation of that continued uplift in premium.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I'll just take one follow-up.
You do a great job on Slide 11 of -- on the guidance from the -- a walk from last year to this year and you tantalize us a little bit with that in the segment slides.
Is there any way we can get from you a third quarter or sequentially or year-over-year kind of the same kind of walk? You had such a significant incremental margin this quarter that it needs I think a little bit further explanation as to what were some of the other items that might have raised that over the normal 30% contribution margin.
Budd we did obviously realize a very nice contribution margin on the revenues that we experienced in the third quarter.
We talked some about benefiting in the quarter versus last year from lower raw material costs in some of our businesses that we have not quantified externally what the benefit of those impacts were.
We have benefit year-over-year also from the restructuring savings.
We talked about that early this year.
We quantified that for a full year anticipating between $15 million to $20 million of incremental EBIT and we are getting that benefit...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Prorated for the quarter Susan? Is it about 1/4 for this third quarter? We're getting -- yes probably a little bit greater impact here in the latter part of the year because those benefits are fully-loaded.
They -- some of those activities were still ongoing in the first quarter so we probably did not have the full impact of that activity early in the year.
So those just -- I know that's not the numerical bridge that you're looking for.
But some of those elements we won't discuss in great detail externally.
It is nice about to know that we tantalized Budd though.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well then I'll sneak one other one because you also tantalized us on the cash flow statement with a $22 million expenditure for something of an unconsolidated entity -- in an investment on an unconsolidated entity.
And to whatever extent that you're willing to disclose what that's about I'd love to know what that was.
Budd this is Matt.
Sorry you're going to be 0 for 2 because we are bound by nondisclosure agreement relative to the specifics of that opportunity.
It is related to a potential acquisition and we have certainly rights that would allow us if we decide that is not something we want to further pursue then we can retreat from it without any loss of that $22 million investment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any idea when that will be done? When that -- when we'll know more about that? I would -- during the next few months.
It could be a fourth quarter item or it could be a first quarter item or it could disappear.
So we -- all iterations still in play.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
[Technical Difficulty] Kanisha we're having trouble with him.
You want to go to the next caller? [Operator Instructions] Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question was in commercial.
The JCPenney business helped you out here in the third quarter.
Is that a one-quarter hit or will that lag and over the next several quarters from business from that program? Keith the orders that we had in hand were shipped in the third quarter.
We do have some releases in 1Q 2013 that are of lesser size than what we shipped in third quarter but have a number of bids outstanding.
We're very optimistic.
I very clearly want to communicate to the listeners of this call that our people did an absolutely wonderful job executing on this opportunity.
The customer was very very pleased.
And execution we are hopeful will put us in the lead horse position for subsequent releases.
But there's nothing of any magnitude in 4Q.
And you'll see some potentially more and we don't know at this point in the first quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you just characterize the store fixtures environment outside of this JCPenney business you got in -- as you ended the fourth quarter? It's seasonally normal at this point which means that it -- the store fixtures business typically loses money in the fourth quarter just because of lack of demand.
Were optimistic that we'll have some build opportunities in the latter part of the fourth quarter for first quarter possessions.
And as I said in the conference call prepared script that it's all because of stores setting themselves before the holidays.
So we have plenty of opportunities.
We continue to be as I said optimistic.
We feel like some of the larger retailers who have not been as aggressive on the remodeling will become more aggressive.
And any time one retailer changes a position in the retail environment as JCPenney has done that success sometimes allows others to become more aggressive in their remodeling plans.
So we're optimistic.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from David MacGregor from Lowbow (sic) [ Longbow ] Research.
I wanted to get you to just talk a little bit about the acquisition you made recently in the gel foam.
I realize it's small.
But can you just talk about where you're going longer term or strategically with that and what the implications for 2013 might be? David it is very small that it is -- we acquired some IP -- licensed it I should say that allows for our manufacturing and sale of a very specific family of gel foam products that we are in the early stages of manufacturing based on historical process.
And with our product development capabilities we have every expectation that we'll be able to expand that technology.
The product will be sold in component form as toppers as integrated components in mattresses.
We're optimistic that you may see some of that at the Las Vegas Furniture Market in January.
But it's an area of specialty product that we intend to participate in.
There's potential that it would be a part of hybrid mattresses but also may be a part of full core product.
So we'll see how it develops.
David it may also find its way eventually into such things as upholstered furniture office seating and possibly automotive seating.
Is the plan to use this as a platform for further acquisitions? Can you just talk about how you grow or how you invest in it from here I guess? Not necessarily for future acquisitions but more a throwing our research and development capabilities at this intellectual property and family and as Dave said trying to expand the capability.
The product has been very successful in the whole -- in the health care field.
So we will take that to residential bedding furniture and the other areas that Dave mentioned.
Okay.
And just -- if I could ask one other question.
Just in the fixture and display business talk about the office side of that business.
And I think you had indicated it was down.
You felt it was maybe in line with what's happening overall in that space.
Is there any prospect there over the next 4 or 5 6 quarters for share growth or new programs? Or is it -- are you really just kind of at the mercy of what happens in the category? No.
David that we -- the business as we said was slightly off.
Office the whole office industry is up against some very very difficult comps with the industry growing at 20% last year.
Those comps lessened a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So from a industry perspective things will get less difficult from a year-on-year comparison perspective.
But the answer to your question is yes that we are always developing new products.
We are very well placed with the large office manufacturers and listeners will know that's primarily almost exclusively in the chair part of office components.
New programs new rollouts we feel really good.
But our market shares are reasonably-sized.
We really need recovery in the industry for us to see significant growth.
I'll add on to that.
We have seen some growth in Europe off a very small base and our position in Asia.
Europe and Asia have been weaker than North America in recent quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quarters ago you talked about some loss of market share to a Chinese competitor.
I thought you might have regained that.
But could you go over where that situation is today? Budd on bedding or on furniture parts? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Furniture components pardon me Karl.
Sure.
That -- from a furniture hardware standpoint that there has certainly been pricing pressure that the steel prices in China deflated at a quicker rate than they did in the U.S.
They have reinflated in China.
So there have been some pressures that I really think started about this time last year really to -- the second quarter of 2011 where we were trying to pass through some pretty significant steel-based raw material inflation and our customers started to down-spec a little bit.
Some of them have been caught from a quality perspective.
So we feel really pretty good about where we are in that market.
The hardware mechanism sales in September were up 5% whereas we said they were flat for the quarter.
So there was an improving trend.
Furniture sales are a little better now than they had been as is typical season as you well know.
There is a continued shift to powered motion.
We are a large participant in that category.
So we feel like we're very well positioned Budd.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you had also talked a little bit about carpet underlayments.
And how are you feeling about that business today with housing improving? Revenues look like they're improving.
But what about margins? How does that -- what's the outlook for that? Budd as you said that the -- the demand is significantly improved.
That continues into the October timeframe.
It is correlated to not only new construction but consumer confidence as housing prices have bottomed and started to recovery.
As you know better than I there is a tendency to remodel and with that comes new carpeting.
So we're seeing that uplift.
We're also seeing some share gains.
That business is a good business for us in that we believe we're the largest producer of carpeted underlay in North America.
We're confident of that.
And as I said in the prepared statements the margins of that business while certainly positive and more acceptable in the third quarter than they had been previously are below the segment and therefore the corporate average.
So we -- we're appreciative of every square yard we receive.
We're starting to see a little bit better mix shift in that we're seeing an uplift in hospitality which allows for the sale of better goods with inherently greater margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Incremental dollar in that segment does it give you the 30% contribution margin that you get corporate overall? Or is it still kind of be -- if we continue to see revenue changes still going to be in a lower incremental margin? It's at the lower end of that 25% to 30% range Budd.
But it's still again is good business for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question just to kind of go back to an old issue is the LIFO issue that you have.
What's the outlook for this year? Is there any early look into next year? And remind people if you could how that flows through the overall corporate income statement because it shows up at corporate but where does it show up in the divisionals? Budd good question that we did have some greater LIFO benefit in the third quarter that -- there is assumed by that that there was FIFO expense at the segment level.
So the margins would be pressured primarily in residential and industrial.
As we consolidate LIFO-FIFO match maybe not exactly perfectly dollar for dollar on a quarter basis.
But theoretically -- - here we've got a spring salesman talking about accounting theory -- but they match over a longer term.
It's very difficult for us to forecast LIFO-FIFO moves into 2013.
We're not there yet.
Budd this is Matt and I'd just add.
As you know having looked at that number specifically routinely our LIFO reserve over the last several years has been anywhere between $70 million to $90 million.
It moves up or down based upon costs and prices et cetera.
And as everyone listening on the call knows basically our LIFO reserve and the impacts there directly correlate hopefully to good pricing discipline and decision making on our end to deal with whether costs are running up or running down and then do so prudently.
So we'll continue to have that overall mindset in place as we account for and deal with LIFO.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Matt the specific LIFO charge shows up at the corporate level or the credit shows up at the corporate level.
But can you -- to Karl's point does it match pretty closely with what happens at the divisional levels so really the overall impact is a wash corporate-wise? Yes.
And hell that's fair to say.
On -- certainly from an overall year standpoint sometimes the timing isn't quite perfect in any given quarter.
But yes what you said over the course of a 12-month period that is absolutely gaps in TAM and it tends to be ours as well of course.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what is your thought about the third quarter? How did it match in the third quarter? Budd we -- to the best -- it's difficult to say penny-to-penny it is but it matches.
If you see LIFO benefit over a year assume that that really equal number is FIFO expense at the segment level again pressuring margins.
Again we're primarily in residential and industrial.
So it might not be penny for penny but it's pretty darn close.
Those numbers -- I know you know this but those numbers are a function of the indices that we use for those specific LIFO pools as well as the amount of inventory that we anticipate at the end of a period.
So it can vary based upon the inventories that we have too.
And Budd I'd just add one final thought.
And that is relative to the third quarter margin performance which we feel good about certainly room for more improvement.
Yet in the third quarter that margin was not uniquely benefited by some LIFO activity that occurred in the quarter if that's the essence of your question as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baugh from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2 quick follow-ups.
One could you quantify the broad scrap spread maybe in the third quarter year-to-date and then an outlook for the fourth quarter? And then a second follow-up discuss international spring volume.
I recall you had a customer benefit I think in the U.K.
I can't recall when that happened.
But have you anniversary-ed that? And sort of what is in particular the European outlook for innerspring? John from a scrap perspective we saw scrap prices deflate in the third quarter roughly in a $35 range.
We have seen scrap again retreat somewhat in the October timeframe with an expectation that scrap will inflate to an equal or greater rate in November.
So steel is volatile.
It's been particularly volatile since about the April timeframe this year.
So we'll see what happens.
As regards to the international spring that we have not anniversary-ed that transaction in the U.K.
That was the de-verticalization of a costumer that took place in January.
We continue to benefit from that.
As I said in the prepared comments European spring units were down 4%.
Actually dollars in Europe are positive in the October timeframe.
So it's a challenging environment.
Our -- we are the largest producer of innersprings in Europe.
We were negatively impacted in the third quarter as we were in the second by mix.
We'll see what the fourth quarter brings.
I'll remind listeners that we tend to be heavy-weighted in Northern Europe.
We don't have a position in Southern Europe.
The other thing that's impacting us though in international spring has been a softness in Brazil South America in particular but more specifically very specifically Brazil and that the monitory policies by the Brazilian government have -- were changed in the early part of the second quarter.
So we're seeing some soft demand there as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Karl I'm sorry is there a way to quantify that scrap steel spread in the third quarter or year-to-date in terms of its impact? We don't talk spread John that we generally at the loss level being rod will end up moving some pricing around to adjust to moves in the market both up or down.
But the spread isn't something that we discuss.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Has it been favorable year-to-date kind of neutral? I know it's been volatile.
It certainly isn't a negative for us.
Your next question comes from the line of David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Just to follow up.
First of all just while we're on the bedding can you update us on the proportion of North American versus European business of spring? Oh boy.
It's probably 4x larger in the U.S.
roughly.
Yes David.
It's -- U.S.
to international spring is about 2/3 U.S.
and 1/3 international.
And of international spring Europe is by far the largest subset.
Great okay.
And then I -- within the specialty business the machinery business was down.
And I guess I'd just like to get you to comment on what's going on within that business.
Is there a secular trend there that we should be thinking about? And what's the thought heading forward over the next 4 or 5 6 quarters? David it's -- I don't believe it's a secular trend.
It is much as we were up against a really difficult comp in the third quarter of last year.
Remember our machinery businesses are very much heavy-weighted to bedding demand and it's a global business.
So the weakness in Europe and in South America has been negative year-on-year comp to us.
Again October machinery sales are up so it's a backlog issue.
The backlog log is not as strong as it was this time last year but there really has not been anything that's changed other than softer international demand.
Mr.
DeSonier there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to your management for closing remarks.
Okay.
We appreciate your attention and I think our year-end call will be on February 5.
We'll talk to you then.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Inc.
Thank you.
Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO and President; Karl Glassman the Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our CFO; and Susan McCoy who is Staff Vice President of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Karl will provide operating highlights.
Dave will then address our outlook for 2013.
And finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
We're very pleased with the operational progress we made in 2012.
As expected we realized significant earnings leverage as unit volumes grew in several of our businesses.
This led to higher earnings and significantly improved margins.
We completed the restructuring activity that was initiated in late 2011 and realized the anticipated benefits.
Western Pneumatic Tube which was the first large acquisition we've made since our strategic change exceeded our performance expectations during its first year in our portfolio.
We have also maintained our focus on optimizing returns.
Working capital levels remained lean throughout the year and operating cash grew significantly.
Before I elaborate further on those details I would like to thank all of our employee partners for their hard work that contributed to this 2012 progress.
As we reported yesterday full year same-sales location increased 1% in 2012.
Unit volumes increased 3% but were partially offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill and changes in currency rates.
Full year unit volume growth was driven by several key businesses including automotive U.S.
spring adjustable bed geo components carpet underlay and parts of residential furniture components.
2012 earnings were a record $1.70 per share at the high end of the adjusted guidance we issued on January 10 which incorporated the $0.18 fourth quarter unusual net tax benefit.
2012 earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude unusual net tax benefits in both the second and fourth quarters were also a record at $1.46 per share.
In 2011 full year earnings adjusted to exclude fourth quarter restructuring-related costs were $1.20 per share.
This 22% increase in adjusted EPS primarily reflected benefits from higher unit volume cost improvements and the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition.
EBIT grew and EBIT margins also improved to 9.2% for the full year.
Fourth quarter same-location sales decreased 2% versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Unit volumes increased 1% but were more than offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill.
Unit volume growth during the fourth quarter primarily occurred in key residential businesses including U.S.
Spring Adjustable Bed Carpet Underlay and parts of Residential Furniture Components.
Fourth quarter earnings per share excluding the unusual net tax benefits were $0.32.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 earnings excluding the restructuring-related expenses were $0.22 per share.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects cost improvements higher unit volumes and the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition.
Cash from operations increased 37% to $450 million during 2012 on stronger earnings and improvements in working capital levels largely from reductions in accounts receivable.
Optimizing returns on capital employed continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the year with working capital at 13.2% of annualized sales well below our 15% target.
Our financial base remains very strong.
We ended 2012 with net debt to net capital at 29% slightly below the conservative end of our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
In August we issued $300 million of 10-year notes.
With the proceeds we reduced our use of commercial paper and ended the year with our entire $600 million commercial paper program fully available.
2012 marked the 41st consecutive annual dividend increase for the company.
During the year we increased the quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.29 per share.
Even the recent increase in share -- with the recent increase in share price Leggett &amp; Platt possesses one of the highest dividend yields among all of the S&amp;P 500's dividend aristocrats.
At yesterday's closing price of $29.04 the current dividend yield is 4%.
Given the $188 million cash outlay to acquire Western Pneumatic Tube our share repurchases were at levels well below those of recent years.
During 2012 we purchased 2 million shares of our stock and issued 4.7 million shares 2/3 of the issuances related to employee stock options exercises which increased notably in 2012 with a significant share price appreciation during the year.
Consistent with our stated priorities for use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock subject to the outlook for the economy our level of cash generation and other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but has -- we have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3 years ending December 31 2012 we generated TSR of 16% per year on average which places us in the top 37% of the S&amp;P 500 companies just shy of our goal to be in the top 1/3.
Our shareholders continued to benefit from our effort to achieve consistently strong TSR by profitably growing revenue improving our margins paying meaningful dividends and buying back our stock.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some operating highlights.
Karl? Thank you Dave.
Good morning.
In my comments this morning I'll discuss a few segment highlights.
You will find additional details in yesterday's press release and in the slide presentation on our website.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same-location sales increased 4% in the fourth quarter entirely from higher unit volumes.
In our U.S.
spring business innerspring unit volumes grew 6% in the quarter and boxspring units increased 4%.
Growth of Comfort Core which is our pocketed coil product offering continues to significantly outpace the other innerspring categories and was up 35% in the quarter.
This is being driven in part by strong market reception of hybrid mattresses.
For the full year innerspring units grew 4% and boxspring units were up 1%.
Volume in Furniture Components increased 2% in the fourth quarter and 3% for the year.
Continued growth throughout the year in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses was partially offset by a 4% fourth quarter and full year decrease in motion hardware unit volumes.
Again this quarter we had significant growth in Adjustable Beds with unit shipments up 21%.
For the year units grew 27%.
We also had meaningful sales growth in carpet underlay in both the fourth quarter and full year.
Fourth quarter EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to the absence of last year's restructuring-related cost and higher unit volumes.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales decreased 4% in the fourth quarter.
Fixture &amp; Display sales decreased 9% on lower retailer spending.
Sales in Office Furniture components increased 2% during the quarter which we believe is roughly in line with the overall market for office seating.
EBIT and EBIT margins improved during the quarter primarily benefiting from prior cost improvement initiatives the absence of last year's restructuring-related cost and increased production related to programs that will ship in the first quarter of 2013.
We anticipate a strong start to 2013 in this segment.
We have been awarded several major programs by various retailers that should have a positive impact in the first quarter on not only our wood operations but metal and import operations as well.
In the third quarter of 2013 we will face a very strong 2012 comparison from large programs that shipped last fall.
And typically fourth quarter volumes declined significantly versus third quarter.
We expect that normal sequential decline again this year.
In the Industrial Materials segment fourth quarter same-location sales decreased 15% primarily from lower trade sales at our rod mill.
Across the remainder of the segment unit volumes were essentially flat.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the quarter was largely offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales so total rod production in the quarter was roughly flat with the prior year.
The rod mill continues to run at 100% capacity utilization.
Despite the negative sales headlines they create lower trade sales abroad are generally neutral to earnings if production levels are stable and we're consuming the rod in our own mills which was the case in the fourth quarter.
EBIT and EBIT margins for the segment increased primarily due to the absence of last year's restructuring-related cost cost improvements and earnings from the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition.
As Dave mentioned earlier we are very pleased with the performance of the Western acquisition.
The business exceeded our initial first year forecast and as expected generated full year 2012 margins greater than the company average.
In the Specialized Products segment fourth quarter same-location sales increased slightly.
Automotive continued to experience strong growth in North America but this was offset by lower demand in Europe with sales in Asia essentially flat.
Sales grew during the quarter in Commercial Vehicle Products but this increase was offset by lower machinery volume.
EBIT and EBIT margins increased during the quarter primarily from the absence of last year's restructuring-related cost.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl.
You guys did a great job this past quarter.
As we stated yesterday in our press release we anticipate further improvement in sales and earnings in 2013.
For the full year we expect sales growth between 1% and 6% resulting in sales of $3.75 billion to $3.95 billion.
Given this sales growth and the contribution margin we expect from incremental unit volumes we anticipate 2013 earnings from continuing operations of $1.50 to $1.75 per share.
This compares to the $1.46 of adjusted EPS from continuing operations that we reported in 2012.
As Karl mentioned in his comments our store fixtures business will likely experience some quarterly earnings volatility again this year with a relatively strong first quarter of 2013 currently anticipated.
For 2013 we expect to generate over $350 million of operating cash again comfortably exceeding the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
During calendar 2013 dividends should require about $125 million of cash which is lower than a typical year since the dividend normally paid in January 2013 was accelerated into December 2012 in anticipation of tax rate changes.
Capital expenditures in 2013 should not exceed $100 million.
And with those comments I will now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to try to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please reenter the queue and we'll be happy to answer all the questions you have.
Claudia we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Industrial segment.
The intersegment sales in Industrial Materials were up only modestly in the fourth compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
With all the inter-usage of the materials wouldn't that number have been higher if the -- most of the subs are going internal? Keith the trades -- or the sales out of the rod mill when we sell those to ourselves those actually go to our own wire mills which are all within that one segment so those never get reported in any form of -- in terms of a sale.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the issue here was a sale from your rod mill to your wire mill versus your rod mill going external to the company is that correct? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that something that's going to continue in the future? Keith it was a big issue.
This is Karl.
There is a -- it was a big issue starting in the third quarter of 2012.
And as I said in my prepared comments it has a significant negative impact on reported trade sales.
In the fourth quarter as an example our trade sales would've increased 3% versus being flat if that -- if those rod sales would have gone to trade.
We expect it to continue because we expect that our sales will continue to grow.
We -- selling rod to the external market at the degree that we did in 2011 was the default.
If our internal consumption within the company consumption of wire and rod therefore rod is at the levels that it was in the back half of 2012 and at the levels that we expect in 2013 you should continue to see that depressed reported trade sales strictly from the Industrial Materials segment.
I'll pile on here that as the comments said that is relatively neutral to earnings.
It's actually slightly positive.
I'll complicate this a little bit more in that when we consume wire and rod internally it tends to be higher value.
It tends to be a higher percentage of high carbon than low.
When we sell rod externally it tends to be heavy weighted to low.
So this switch is really good from every perspective other than the headlines of reported trade sales.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is that the reason you had such a strong contribution margin that the EBIT was up substantially in the Industrial segment year-over-year? Yes it's just one of the reasons.
As a matter of fact it's a relatively small contribution to all of that that we didn't repeat the restructuring cost that we had in the fourth quarter of last year.
Western certainly is a contributor but that piece was a small contributory positive for us [ph].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question you made money in commercial for the first time in about 6 years.
Was there something unusual that will prevent you from making money again next year or is this kind of passed earlier? Keith I appreciate you calling that out.
Dennis Park and the Store Fixtures people would appreciate it also.
You'll remember in that segment that it is made up of Office which really always performs well is always profitable in the fourth quarter offset by reduced spending in the Store Fixtures side of the business.
What happened in the fourth quarter was we were very busy from a production standpoint building for programs that will ship in the first quarter of this year.
So the answer to your question will it repeat is pretty much dependent on the order book that we receive in the fourth quarter of any year predicting consumption or sales in the first quarter of the following year.
At the same time we're working feverishly to always make that segment profitable from the Store Fixtures perspective.
It really is a demand issue but we're not having the repeat of restructuring cost.
That business is very much in control today at a much greater rate than it had been in the past.
And Keith this is Dave.
I'll just summarize by saying it is our expectation that it will continue its profitability.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel Nicholas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So following up to this so we are modeling correctly as we think about this internal rod mill versus external what might that influence the revenue line when we look at all of '13 versus '12 and it sounds like it's more first half of the year loaded? Yes that's true John.
It was about a $45 million impact for all of 2012.
It was about a $28 million impact in just the fourth quarter of 2012.
I expect I'm guessing that it will be about an $18 million impact in 1Q of '13 and it would probably diminish to maybe in the $12 million to $13 million range in the second quarter.
But again it all is dependent on internal demand of wire.
We're going to continue -- that rod mill is very very price- and cost-competitive.
So we're going to run it at 100% at all times.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And related to that I assume the drop in accounts receivable I assume there's some connection there although it looks like that was even greater than that figure.
If you can give some color on AR.
You are right John.
There was some impact because there were obviously fewer reported trade sales but that was not the majority of it.
It was a really good job by our corporate finance and credit collection group augmented by some help out in the field of reducing our DSO.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly quickly Western Pneumatic I recall there was some earnings drag in the initial year.
Could you review again what that was when that precisely goes away and what that impact roughly would be to earnings in '13? Yes John there was about $5.5 million that we attributed to an inventory fair market value adjustment that -- most of that came through 2012.
There's a little bit of that that carries over but it's less than $1 million.
In fact it's probably less than $0.5 million that carries over in 2013.
There is also about a $3.5 million intangible asset that we assigned some value to that had a 1-year life so that basically rolls off by January as well.
So in the $8.5 million to $9 million range is what 2012 was burdened to us that 2013 should not be.
Our next question is coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karl maybe I missed it some might have gotten -- but can you go over kind of where we are in Bedding and how you saw the quarter develop and what the outlook is for early 2013? I think the January of last year you had a very strong performance in Spring and that would be hard to compete against.
Yes but -- thank you for that and I'll be long winded with this answer too and I apologize for it.
But there's been so much question as regards the ISPA statistics and the timing of the months that I want to do what I did in the third quarter and give you a walk of innerspring sales within Leggett versus ISPA-reported.
And before I do that I want to preface my comments by saying that ISPA is a wonderful aggregator of data and reporter of data.
This discrepancy is no indication on ISPA or ISPA's ability.
It's a timing of purchases.
They're somewhat victimized by the data that comes to them and remember that all they receive is data of 2/3 of the industry.
So ISPA reported that innerspring sales were up 12.8% in October our innerspring unit sales were up 3%.
ISPA reported that November innerspring sales this is supposed industry was up 11.8% our sales were up 3%.
ISPA reported that December innerspring sales were down 5.4% our innerspring unit sales were up 10%.
So anybody that invests on the ISPA data based on a monthly sample is probably doing themselves and probably others a disservice.
If you aggregate it from a quarter perspective ISPA reported that innerspring sales were up 5.9% Leggett sales were up 6%.
So perhaps it makes more sense to look at the quarterly numbers than the monthly numbers.
I will continue in that it's notable that in the fourth quarter ISPA statistics the innerspring outgrew non-innerspring and the AUSP of innerspring sales was positive versus non-innersprings being negative.
It's the first time that's happened in quite some time.
It's a testimony to the Hybrid offering and product line supported by the Comfort Core comments that I made.
And to give you a little more color there Comfort Core or pocketed coils as a percentage of Leggett's total U.S.
innerspring sales in 2011 were 7.1%.
In 2012 they were 9.2% and in January of 2013 they were 10.8%.
A Comfort Core has greater than a 2x average unit selling price compared to the open coil product that it replaces.
So all those dynamics are good.
Now to January January has certainly been off to a slow start that our January U.S.-based innerspring shipments were down 8.4%.
We did have 1 fewer shipping day so on a same day's basis it was down about 3% and -- but we really do attribute that to your comment in that January of 2012 was extremely strong.
And in addition that our customers who you interacted with and a number of the other listeners who are participants on this call interacted with in Las Vegas are very very bullish about the quarter.
But they all collectively say that the year started a little bit slow.
Some of that cause is probably attributed to the delay in the IRS issuance of refund -- tax refund checks.
The first quarter is the most promotional quarter from the standpoint of lower-end bedding a tremendous amount of units.
The quarter is really important to us.
We think that season is going to get started somewhere between 2 and 4 weeks later in 2013 because of the tax noise caused by our friends in Washington.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very very helpful Karl.
And just as I don't get run too far foul of David's prescription for one question I'm going to sneak one other in.
As I look at the share repurchase and dividend prescription for this year it looks to me like you -- one of your share repurchase criteria had been no dilution and yet you had a little bit of dilution last year because of not purchasing for the 4.7 million share issuance.
This year do we look like we're going to have less dilution or no dilution? Is that -- are we going back to that? And on the dividends are we only going to see 3 quarters of cash flow this year because you accelerated the dividend into the fourth quarter of last year? Yes that's correct.
This is Dave.
It's our intent to go ahead and buy those shares back and remain neutral.
And the only caveat I would provide is that if there is something that we feel strategically would be much more compelling to the value of the corporation maybe it's a very attractive acquisition then we would consider that.
But normally it's our intention to at least maintain neutrality on that dilution factor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the likelihood of that strategic acquisition David? We're always looking for opportunities.
I will say that there are some interesting things out there.
We're not close to consummating any deal of any significant size at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the money you made in -- the money you invested last quarter in something I think that did not happen and that's back in the company coffers? No it's still standing hanging fire if you will.
We're still investigating that as an attractive long-term potential.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I thought that was supposed to be ended by the end of the year that's not correct? No we -- what happened Budd is we extended our indemnity with another entity.
So that we -- it gave us a longer period of time to analyze the aspects of acquisition.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of David Macgregor with Longbow Research.
Can you just talk about the Specialized Products group for a moment.
And it seems like things are mixed.
It's nice to see CBP sales up.
But as you put together your guidance for 2013 what are the trends that you're assuming with respect to margins in this segment? Should we be expecting better margins flat down? David from an auto perspective that there was about 6% industry production growth in autos in 2012 we're expecting about 2% worldwide auto production so we -- auto is the biggest part of that segment.
So we expect continued growth there.
That fourth quarter mix of CBP being positive and machinery being negative is actually dilutive to margins.
While we appreciate the CBP business and the margin that it brings that that's not a trade that's good for us.
So it's somewhat dependent from a long-term basis as to the demands in those 2 industries.
And we at this point would expect that 2013 would look similar to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Boil that altogether segment margin should not be significantly changed one way or the other.
Okay.
Good.
And then on the -- you highlighted the machinery business being down.
Is there something going on there with respect to share or evolving technology that we should be concerned about? No as you'll remember that that machinery business is primarily sewing and quilting related to the bedding industry.
I think there was certainly a U.S.
pause in capital spending with the uncertainty around the fiscal cliff in the fourth quarter.
Worldwide a lot of that machinery goes into Europe.
South America was a little depressed so it's really macroeconomic it has nothing to do with shares.
Okay.
And then just with respect to the contribution margins I guess on -- we have discussed on a consolidated basis.
But I know historically you've kind of been in the 25% to 30% range.
I sort of took from the verbiage in the press release that you were expecting better contribution margins for next year I just want to make sure I'm reading that correctly.
And if so can you just highlight maybe what's best -- sort of the most powerful drivers of that might be? Is it mix is it pricing? Well Dave let me start and then Susan you might want to comment.
We continue to think that our contribution margins are going to be in that 25% to 30% range and that assumes the approximate mix that we have.
I know we've mentioned before and it's true that certain of the business units have higher incremental contribution margins than others.
Right now for planning purposes we just use the 25% to 30% on average.
Susan do you want to comment? That's what I was going to actually point you to David.
On Slide 11 there's a step-forward walk sort of that shows from our continuing ops earnings this year to the midpoint of our guidance.
And it implies on that 3% midpoint sales growth somewhere around a 30% contribution margin.
However we look at this whether it's EPS or whether it's from an EBIT standpoint that's basically what we have built in.
It is mix-sensitive.
That's the reason for the range that we've put out there a bit but somewhere around 30% would be a reasonable place to start.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Kelly with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a question on the outlook for -- at the segment level for '13.
If the midpoint company-wide growth is 3% what's growing above the average by your budget? And it sounds like the Specialized division is going to be growing below the midpoint budget.
Bob at the midpoint of our guidance we would actually have Specialized growing at a nice pace somewhere in the mid single digit range whereas Residential and Industrial approximately at the midpoint of our guidance which is in that 3% or so range; and currently Commercial about flat.
LLC</strong> So almost uniform growth across the businesses except for Commercial? Yes with Commercial -- right with Commercial a little lower and Specialized a little stronger.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then just as far as the LIFO reserve changes do you have any expectation there for '13? Bob our guidance does not include nor does it ever include at the beginning of the year LIFO FIFO forecast.
The 2 measures match during the year so it's not part of our thinking at this point.
Totally dependent on what happens with inflation deflation during the year.
We expect at this point a relatively calm steel year that the outlook for steel pricing in what we've read from an industry perspective is that steel should be really pretty flat during the year.
But it can change very quickly.
But at this point there -- you shouldn't see a lot of LIFO FIFO noise.
Our next question is coming from the line of Allen Zwickler with First Manhattan.
Research Division</strong> Anyway I -- my question is more of a macro that I ask maybe once every couple of years.
If you have kind of looked at your mix I know you bought the tool business.
But whether it be residential the mattress business or the fixture business could you kind of describe to us where you feel you are in those businesses i.e.
capacity i.e.
competition? I know that's a long-winded question.
But maybe -- it's year end maybe it's a good time to just refresh us on how you're feeling about those businesses.
No it's a good question.
I'll give a high-level comment then ask Karl to give you some more specifics.
We still are well below our capacity utilization targets.
And I look at that from a glass half-full perspective that is a wonderful opportunity for us.
And so as the demand for our products continues to or we hope continues to go up we'll see those incremental margins that we've commented.
The only one that is at full capacity Karl mentioned this is our sterling rod.
But the rest of them have lots of room to grow.
They vary anywhere from the mid -- high 40% utilizations to excluding sterling in the 60% 70% utilization.
And as you know we've said we like to be in 80% the way we calculate it.
We'll continue to put a very high priority on all of our business segments.
Residential Furnishings of course has always been the genesis of the company and continues to get a large amount of our product development effort.
But there's business development going on in each one of the segments.
I think that Commercial Furnishings as I mentioned before our expectation is that it will continue its upward profitability march.
We're very pleased to see what those men and women have been able to do there.
So we've got plenty of capacity in that particular business unit and demand is what we need.
Luckily we're winning those significantly important and large opportunities from various of the retailers.
Research Division</strong> Well could I ask just ask at a slightly different way? You have -- you say you have capacity and so just in the last few years the -- particularly the mattress business there's been some changes in terms of different kinds of mattresses even though I'm sleeping on the same one and you'll probably hate me for it.
But my question is do you have -- is the capacity matching with today's demands? Am I making myself clear on whether -- yes you might be running at 50% of capacity but the other 50% is machinery that for example is making products that people aren't buying anymore.
I'm just try to match that up.
Yes okay.
Thanks Allen.
Thanks for the clarification.
And of course our utilization is significantly higher than that 50%.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm just -- you understand that where I'm coming from.
Yes I do.
I do.
And suffice it to say that the equipment that we are commissioning most recently and in -- today and in the near future a large percentage of that equipment is pocketed coil equipment which goes to Karl's previous commentary about how that Comfort Core product has grown.
And so our capacity is aligned with what we believe will be the demand going forward for the types of innersprings that are going to be expected and demanded by our customers.
Karl you want to offer anything? Well I think that we -- our job is to match the capacity utilization with the mix of our business on a daily basis and we're doing our job.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to wrap up so the fact that you're not running those plants full out okay whatever the number may be in terms of capacity is not a function of not having the right machinery if I'm using the right word? I mean so if -- for example you got the orders but they were from stuff that you couldn't produce you'd have to pass on them -- to somebody who had that business.
Yes that is not the situation Allen.
It's a very good question.
But we're not missing business for lack of our ability to produce the particular specification that's required.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And in the fixture business do you feel now that you have the right mix? Forget about the customers who are going to be fickle but do you feel like you have the right mix there? And capacity if you look at your capacity versus your mix of customers et cetera do you think that's in balance at the moment? Yes it -- we're better positioned there Allen than we've been since we started aggregating acquisitions in store fixtures many years ago.
The balance is correct for customer demand evidenced by the performance over the last few quarters and the expectation that you should have of our performance into the future.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just reentering -- reentering the queue to ask a few more questions if I could.
Karl I want to make sure I understand for modeling purposes the situation with the commercial fixtures.
You had said that in the 2012 third quarter you still had some business that you were delivering I think for some of the major retail projects you won.
You don't expect that to really participate in this year's third quarter and yet you still expect it to drop off in the fourth quarter revenue.
Do I understand that right? Basically Budd that's right.
You should always expect the fourth quarter is going to be extremely soft.
It doesn't matter which retailer which mix it's just they have to have their stores all retailers across all categories they have to have them positioned roughly October 1.
So that's what causes the weakness in the fourth quarter for us and all other fixture manufacturers.
As it relates to the difficult third quarter 2012 comp that all we're doing is saying "Heck it was a heck of a third quarter last year." It's really early this year.
We don't have orders in hand to match that.
We're not saying that we won't that retailers usually don't release that kind of PO that early in the year so we're continuing to win business every day.
All it is is a notification or reminder to you that heck it was a good quarter.
I'm not for one willing to sit here today and tell you that we can't match that.
I am willing to tell you that we don't have orders in hand to do that nor did we a year ago today to run to that real strong 3Q 2012 demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well the sequential growth from last year's second quarter to third quarter was nearly $50 million year-over-year in the whole total segment.
It doesn't seem that that's in the cards this year.
We're kind of projecting a little bit more flattish from second quarter to third quarter of 2013 even though at the second quarter of 2013 we're projecting it above last year.
Is that a right kind of starting place? And then fourth quarter this year we're projecting down and almost flattish with last year.
Budd this is Dave.
I think that's prudent for your modeling purposes.
And I hope that -- we're all surprised that it's less than what we actually post but I do think that's prudent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Couple of other quick questions.
I think the sterling rod mill capacity was usually about 550 000 tons.
Is that still right? Is that still a right prescription? Yes that's roughly accurate.
We have not added or reduced capacity Budd.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes but I was just wondering whether had you gained any capacity from some efficiencies that you had been able to do.
No real difference in capacity? Well slight but not significant.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally even though you had a great performance this year it seems to me that the operating margin on a normalized basis still has I think several hundred basis points to go to get to a target that I think -- I remember from the time when we first heard about the strategic plan.
Is that still accurate? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And time frame to get there? Budd we need volume.
You tell us what the macroeconomic situation is going to look like and sort all that out and I'll give you an answer.
It all goes back to capacity utilization and then the contribution margin associated with the additional volumes.
So you give us volume and we'll bring it home at a higher level than we have in the last couple of years albeit there's been significant improvement and we expect that to continue.
Somewhere north of $4 billion maybe it's $4.2 billion $4.3 billion with current product mix are the metrics Budd and that will that be in 2014? I hope so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You know how much regard I have for the company but I've heard this issue a long time about needing extra volume to get to that kind of margin potential.
The cynic might say "Are we really having a pipe dream there?" I know you have a high regard for your customers and you want to be able to supply them when they give you when they favor you with an order.
But are we just being a little bit too open to that kind of prescription and wanting that volume to come back? Mattress units haven't recovered to the demand pre-recession.
Upholstered furniture demand hasn't recovered to near that demand.
Auto hasn't recovered fully.
Home construction hasn't recovered.
But the population in the United States is larger so I guess we would have to -- the default to know that we can't is the consumers' long-term inability to consume.
We're selling primarily replacement products.
And Budd this is Matt.
I'd just add that one of the nice aspects of 2012 was the illustration particularly in the back half of the year that the incremental margin contribution margin that does show up if we have incremental volume up here none of us at all are particularly overwhelmed by 9.2% EBIT margin in 2012.
We need to be -- to double digits and beyond.
But the nice thing is what happened in 2012 when we certainly anticipate going forward as additional volume appears that we will harvest in that 30% contribution margin range and that simple math takes you to 10% and beyond in EBIT margin and we are certainly looking forward to that taking place and believe it will and are dedicated to that proposition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I have no issue with the contribution margin.
It's just the level of sales that gets you to that I think that $2 roadmap we've all wanted to see you get to for a while.
One last question though quickly is the EBIT margin on Carpet Underlayment.
Do you have increased sales? I don't remember hearing you just talk about it.
Has the EBIT margin yet satisfactory? It's improving but not yet acceptable.
But it's getting there.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the floor back over to David DeSonier for closing comments.
Well we don't have a lot of closing comments.
We thank you for your participation and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you.
Mr.
DeSonier you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in our first quarter conference call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive Vice President and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
Perry Davis who is Senior Vice President of the company and also President of the Residential Furnishings segment is also joining us this morning.
We plan to periodically include each of the segment presidents in these calls to participate in Q&amp;A and this quarter we're starting with Perry.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2013.
Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
We are pleased with our start to 2013 and remain optimistic longer term that we will continue to realize benefits from ongoing consumer and housing market recoveries.
As we reported yesterday first quarter earnings were $0.33 per share up 10% versus the $0.30 per share we earned in the first quarter of 2012.
First quarter same-location sales decreased 2% with lower trade sales from our rod mill and deflation in rod and wire prices contributing in roughly equal parts to the decline.
Lower volumes in bedding portions of residential furniture office furniture and machinery were offset by growth in carpet underlay store fixtures and Commercial Vehicle Products.
Despite sluggish demand in some of our key businesses earnings increased during the quarter from cost improvements and strong product mix within certain business units.
These improvements were partially offset by an unusually high accrual for our TSR-driven and other long-term stock based incentive compensation plans.
Matt will discuss this further in his comments.
Including all of these issues EBIT grew and EBIT margins also improved to 8.5% in the quarter compared to 7.9% in first quarter of 2012.
Optimizing returns on capital employed continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the first quarter with working capital at 12.9% of annualized sales well below our 15% target.
Operating cash was $24 million during the quarter which was consistent with our internal expectations.
In February we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share and extended to 42 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases.
At yesterday's closing price of $33.65 the current yield is 3.4% which is one of the highest yields among all of the S&amp;P 500's Dividend Aristocrats.
During the quarter we purchased 1.6 million shares of our stock and issued 2.4 million shares.
2/3 of the issuance is related to employee stock option exercises which have increased in recent quarters with a significant share price appreciation.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock subject to the outlook for the economy our level of cash generation and other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that will end on December 31 of this year we have so far generated TSR of 23% per year on average which currently places us in the top 21% of the S&amp;P 500 companies.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Matt? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
As Dave mentioned quarter earnings were impacted by an unusually high accrual of $0.03 per share related to our stock-based incentive compensation plans.
This was primarily due to the significant increase in our relative TSR performance as our stock price increased from $27 to $34 during the quarter.
In accordance with GAAP we adjust our incentive compensation accruals each quarter to reflect the related performance metrics.
For our TSR-based incentive plan the stock price increase during the first quarter resulted in top quartile performance versus our 320-member peer group against which our performance is measured.
This level of performance if sustained would result in a maximum payout for each of the 3 ongoing 3-year measurement periods and therefore our first quarter results included a large accrual to reflect the increase in the expected payout levels.
Since the TSR-based incentive accruals now reflect maximum payout for each of the measurement periods to date expense in subsequent quarters should be lower than the first quarter.
In addition if our relative TSR moves into a lower quartile of the peer group then we would reduce our accruals to reflect the corresponding lower payout levels in accordance with GAAP.
The majority of this incentive cost was recognized in the selling and administrative expense line of our income statement with a smaller amount also impacting cost of goods sold.
The $10 million increase in SG&amp;A costs versus the first quarter last year was comprised in roughly equal portions of this unusual stock-based compensation expense and an unfavorable ruling on a patent infringement case.
Now on to a few other financial topics.
The reduction in operating cash during the first quarter to $24 million versus $65 million in the first quarter of 2012 is consistent with our internal expectations and results primarily from changes in working capital with the largest impact from an increase in accounts receivable since the beginning of the year.
Accelerated payments by some of our large customers in late 2012 resulted in much lower levels of accounts receivable at year end.
In the first quarter receivables returned to more normal levels with days of sales outstanding at 48 days which is in line with the first quarter last year.
For 2013 we expect to generate over $350 million of operating cash again comfortably exceeding the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
During calendar 2013 dividends should require about $125 million of cash which is notably lower than a typical year since the dividend normally paid in January of 2013 was accelerated into December last year in anticipation of higher tax rates.
Capital expenditures in 2013 should not exceed $100 million.
Our financial base remains very strong.
We ended the quarter with net debt-to-net capital of 29.6% slightly below the conservative end of our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
During the quarter we issued $100 million of commercial paper and ended with $500 million of our $600 million program available.
As planned earlier this month we repaid $200 million of long-term debt that matured with an interest rate of 4.7%.
In each of the remaining quarters this year interest expense is currently estimated to be approximately $2 million less than it was in the first quarter.
As we stated yesterday in our press release we narrowed our 2013 guidance.
We now expect sales growth between 2% and 6% resulting in full year sales of $3.8 billion to $3.95 billion versus previous guidance of the $3.75 million to $3.95 billion.
Given the sales growth and the contribution margin we expect from incremental unit volumes we now anticipate 2013 earnings of $1.55 to $1.75 per share versus prior guidance of $1.50 to $1.75 per share.
This compares to the $1.46 of adjusted EPS from continuing operations we reported in 2012.
While we do not issue quarterly guidance it is important to note that our Store Fixtures business is expected to have an improved second quarter but faces a very challenging year-over-year comparison in the upcoming third quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same-location sales decreased 1% in the first quarter from lower unit volumes.
In our U.S.
Spring business sales decreased 3% in the quarter compared to a relatively strong first quarter of 2012.
Innerspring unit volumes were down 9% and boxspring units were down 1% primarily from market weakness at promotional price points.
Growth continued in Comfort Core which is our pocketed coil product line with those units up 32% in the quarter.
This category shift is driving higher average unit selling prices and a favorable product mix in U.S.
Spring and offset some of the decline in unit volumes in the quarter.
In furniture components sales decreased 7% in the first quarter.
Combined volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses were roughly flat during the quarter but motion hardware unit volumes declined 14% primarily from weak market demand at promotional price points.
In both the bedding and furniture markets the first quarter each year typically has a larger amount of volume at promotional price points as a result of the annual cash infusion consumers get from tax refunds.
This year a delay of those refunds past the key mid-quarter President's Day shopping period along with the 2% payroll tax increase have had a negative impact on market demand.
Adjustable bed units declined for the first time in several years with volume down 4% in the first quarter.
We expect this to have been a temporary event and should return to unit volume growth in the second quarter.
In carpet underlay sales grew significantly in the first quarter.
Margins in this business unit remain under pressure from rising scrap foam costs and we have implemented price increases to recover these higher costs.
First quarter EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the first quarter of 2012 primarily from a hurricane insurance gain.
The earnings impact from a unit volume declines in many of the key residential businesses was largely offset by cost improvements and a favorable product mix in U.S.
Spring.
The Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment sales -- same-location sales increased 1% in the first quarter.
Store Fixtures sales grew 6% but were largely offset by a 6% decrease in Office Furniture components.
We are optimistic about the longer-term view of the office furniture industry but we expect 2013 volume in this business to be somewhat soft.
EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the first quarter of 2012 reflecting the absence of last year's divestiture gain costs associated with programs that will ship in the second quarter competitive pricing and lower sales of Office Furniture components which typically have higher margins.
In the Store Fixtures business some of the programs we initially expected to ship in March were moved to April and have been shipping for the past few weeks.
As a result performance should improve in the second quarter.
However as Matt mentioned in his comments earlier we will face a very strong third quarter comparison from large programs that shipped last fall.
In the Industrial Materials segment first quarter same-location sales decreased 7% as slightly higher unit volume was more than offset by lower trade sales at our rod mill and wire and rod price deflation.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the quarter was more than offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales and the rod mill continues to run at the 100% capacity utilization.
As we've stated in past quarters the change in the mix of rod sales from trade to inter-company is generally positive to earnings since that change tends to also shift the production mix to higher valued high carbon rods.
EBIT and EBIT margins for this segment increased during the quarter primarily due to the absence of last year's acquisition-related costs cost improvements and higher unit volumes in certain businesses.
In the Specialized Products segment first quarter same-location sales increased slightly.
Sales growth in Commercial Vehicle Products was largely offset by lower machinery volume.
Automotive sales were essentially flat with growth in North America and Asia offset by lower demand in Europe.
EBIT and EBIT margins decreased during the quarter with the impact of a litigation accrual partially offset by slightly higher sales and cost improvements.
Automotive industry forecast project low to mid-single-digit growth in both North America and Asia this year and low single-digit declines in Europe.
These forecasts aggregate to global growth of 2% for the year.
With content gains we expect to outperform this industry growth rate.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Karl and Matt for those comments.
As shareholders ourselves we are pleased with the company's performance since making the strategic change a few years ago.
We continue to focus on the multiple levers that influence total shareholder return including profitable growth and margin enhancement.
We demonstrated that focus in 2012 with the very attractive Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition in addition to meaningful margin increases that we realized.
Our guidance anticipates additional margin expansion this year with an implied midpoint EBIT margin of approximately 10% which if achieved would be the highest in over 10 years.
While pleased with the progress we're still not content with this level of performance.
To further our focus on value generation this year we've implemented additional initiatives to enhance profitable growth and EBITDA margins.
And in closing I'll repeat my initial comment.
We're confident that as the overall consumer and housing markets recover Leggett &amp; Platt will realize corresponding benefits.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to David DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we'll be glad to try to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Claudia we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
This is Josh Borstein in for David MacGregor.
On the adjustable foundations you had mentioned this was the first time you had seen a decline.
Was the -- 2012 had been up year-over-year.
You said it was temporary expect growth back in 2Q.
Could you discuss a little bit what went on and what you saw to have that decline? Yes Josh.
This is Karl.
The first and second periods January and February sales were significantly softer than we had experienced in the past.
Some of that is most probably embedded in the results of one of our large customers.
Select Comfort's been very open that their volume was off in the first quarter.
They have also said and we can certainly confirm that their volume recovered in March.
Our adjustable bed business was up 8% in March.
It continues to be strong in April.
So while Select is a very very important customer to us they're not our only customer.
The market was significantly impacted by the softness that we experienced across the whole bedding industry in January and February.
Okay great.
And then just one follow-up.
On the Comfort Cores again some nice performance there.
When do you expect to anniversary the easy comps with your Comfort Cores? Perry why don't you go ahead and take that one? Josh I really don't expect to anniversary -- the category itself just continues to grow beyond any of our other product categories within the bedding group.
Although we may see some slight reduction in the rate of growth over this year but we really anticipate that product category to perform well beyond any of the other product categories for the bedding group.
Okay.
And I know a lot of those Comfort Cores they'll go into the iSeries but can you offer maybe the percentage of the Comfort Cores that go into iSeries as opposed to some of the other products.
I'm just trying to get a sense for the breadth of customers that you have for that product.
All right Josh we don't -- this is Susan obviously.
We don't get quite that specific with any of our product line details to go to the customer level.
But we would probably say that the product is extremely broadly placed.
The iSeries product line's important but the product is being utilized by a number of different manufacturers as they all grow their hybrid offerings.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Questions on the commercial segments on the Store Fixtures you're looking at some business from J.C.
Penney last year.
If you could just give us sort of an update on what that's going to look like moving forward and specifically what kind of comp you're going up against in the third quarter on that? Okay Keith.
This is Karl.
The new CEO of J.C.
Penney Mr.
Ullman has made it very clear that they were going to continue to release all programs that they had envisioned at least through the end of this second quarter.
We're in the process of shipping a good bit of that product now.
At this point based on POs in the hand and commitments that we have we would expect that the 2013 J.C.
Penney-related Store Fixtures volume would be very close if not slightly exceed the demand that we saw in 2012.
But a warning remember that what was very heavy weighted to the third quarter of last year will be more equally spread through this year.
But the heavy shipping period is right now with second quarter being the high point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Residential what's sort of your outlook in the furniture and spring sales for the next quarter or 2 based on what your customers are telling you? Keith this is Perry.
I'll take that question.
Right now after having just completed the High Point Market earlier this week the overall attitude amongst our customers I would say is good.
If you turn to the furniture side most all of the major players that were representative -- represented at the market reported their order writing was brisk.
A lot of new programs rolling out this year.
We continue to see an upgrade in the product category.
More and more product from the furniture side empowered motion.
So the outlook amongst the furniture group was positive.
As to bedding although the first quarter was a little bit lackluster we think for a variety of the reasons that Karl mentioned with the delayed tax refund situation and also a tax increase to hit in the first quarter that outlook also is up.
It seems to have a little lift over prior periods.
In fact over the last 4 weeks I can report that our innerspring shipments are slightly up about 2% year-on-year.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes the first question is could you just address the annual sales guidance? Actually I think you raised the lower end slightly kept the higher end the same.
And I guess the question is the first quarter was certainly below my model and I think most others on the Street.
Was it on plan with your internal model or is there something if it wasn't that you're more optimistic now about the rest of the year? Yes John this is Dave.
It was fairly close to our internal expectation.
We had not planned on a litigation expense but -- and we realize that people develop their models differently and so we're certainly aren't critical of consensus being different than what our internal numbers are.
It's just that the quarterly forecast that we had and some of those that were out there were different.
We're very close to what we expected to see happen.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned litigation that was my follow-up.
Could you just give us a little color on what happened there? Yes it has to do with a product that we developed several years ago having to do with some semiautomatic stapling of some foundation products.
And while we feel comfortable that our design was novel there were some other people that felt that it wasn't.
And we certainly respect other people's intellectual property.
And as a result of a ruling which resulted in a $5 million penalty we went ahead and booked that.
Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If your stock would go back to where it was at the beginning of last quarter down to $26 or $27 what kind of adjustment would there be in SG&amp;A? Herb well there are a lot of -- this is Matt.
There are a lot of moving parts of course that go in that calculation.
But assuming that our relative performance went down as well compared to the peer group of course in essence that we would be the one having that pullback versus the rest of that peer group then we would largely clawback almost all of that incremental expense that appeared here in the first quarter.
Again it's quite a complicated calculation per GAAP.
But sure enough it would cough up quite a bit of accrual that is currently now maxed out.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> If we look back to prior housing recessions and recoveries do bedding and furniture tend to lag recovery and housing starts? And if so generally by how long? Dan this is Karl.
Yes there is certainly a lag.
I need to take out the housing recovery of 2004 '05 and '06 because it was truly an outlier of anything that we've seen in the past.
There was more speculation and more people in homes that as we've seen retrospectively couldn't afford those homes so they weren't fully furnished.
So that we were criticized in the market or certainly questioned as housing was booming during that time frame how come we weren't seeing a significant uplift in bedding and furniture sales.
And like I said we found out the consumer couldn't afford the house much less the furnishings.
So going prior to that there's generally a lag of about 6 months to 1 year.
As housing recovers there's a higher correlation actually in consumer confidence.
So as housing recovers consumer becomes more confident jobs are gained at a greater rate.
And all of that rolls together in above-average GDP growth in the recoveries of those businesses.
Knowing also that post any economic downturn because those -- the purchases of those products are deferrable there is a little bit of pent-up demand and we believe that it's out there and we've yet to experience it.
Daniel this is Dave.
I think you probably know we all know that the supply of available homes has fallen very significantly this past year and that's a good thing for companies like Leggett &amp; Platt because if it takes 5 to 7 months now to gobble up the rest of that inventory construction obviously is recommencing and there is this correlation between new housing and furniture and bedding.
So that's one of the reasons I reiterated my statement of confidence as we see that recovery continue we know that Leggett and many other companies that are associated with the housing market are going to feel the benefit of that.
Inc.</strong> And as a quick follow-up much of the gains we've seen so far in the multi-family arena what's the ratio of the benefit to Leggett of an uplift in multi-family versus say single-family housing starts? Dan we don't have that statistic.
It's more tightly correlated again to consumer confidence than it is to housing.
Housing moves are important but it's probably only 30% of our demand.
Remember most of our products are replacement oriented.
So I just don't know that data point I apologize.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Dan Stolper with Wells Fargo.
This is Herb Buchbinder.
Can you comment on the aerospace business? I don't see any mention of how their sales did.
Hopefully they're still growing.
Herb this is Karl again.
Yes they continued to grow.
We're very pleased with the progression of that business.
That acquisition Western Pneumatic is performing better than we originally had forecasted and the imputed growth rates are better than we expected a year ago now.
We're very pleased.
Is there any acquisitions possible in that area? Or if you do something it probably would not be in aerospace? Herb this is Dave.
The answer is yes to the first question.
We're looking at multiple opportunities none of them great big extraordinarily large.
But we're looking at some businesses that would enhance the offering that we have for the current customer mix that we have.
So we're not in a position to give specific details because of confidentiality arrangements.
But as you know and we talked about the interest we had in not just making one acquisition but trying to grow a business group and that's exactly what we're doing.
So stand by if you will and hopefully in the not-too-distant future we'll have something to talk about in that regard.
Our next question comes from the line of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Josh Borstein again.
Just on the Office Furniture business sales declined there 6% which seems somewhat a bit counter to recent numbers and commentary coming out of the Office Furniture names.
Was there any share loss in that number? Is it temporary? Or is there any additional commentary you can offer to help us understand what's going on in that part of the business? No Josh there certainly wasn't any share loss.
The sales were softer in January and February than they were in March.
We're very pleased with the programs that we have in place that will be launched at NeoCon here in a couple of months.
And our current forecast show that that business will be flat to slightly up the remainder of the year.
It was just first quarter macro market weakness that was probably correlated to some of the softness that our customers are experiencing in the government area.
Okay.
And then just on the tariff protection from your innersprings from the Chinese coils I think they come up for rollover I believe in 2014.
First is that assumption correct? And if so do you expect that tariff protection to be extended? Go ahead Perry.
Yes it does come up for a sunset review.
We're already working on that issue.
We expect that decision to be reaffirmed.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes could you give us just a little help on a couple of things expectations on LIFO for the year where the share count might shake out with the increased exercise? This is Matt John.
LIFO we see it being relatively modest throughout the rest of the year.
I mean I don't think you'll see -- we don't know yet for sure of course but we don't see some dramatic swings a total of $10 million for the full year.
And then relative to share count don't quite know in terms of the option exercise.
By the end of the year we would expect to have issued both through benefit plans and stock option exercise around the 4 maybe a little more than that million share count such that at the end of the year obviously this will be based upon how many shares we also buy back during the year but we should be somewhere between 146 147 or thereabouts.
That's the diluted share count.
Yes fully diluted.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you would expect -- because I think you ended last year at 146 it's a very slight increase maybe? Although again we'll be mindful of our share repurchase activity during the year as well of course and hope to have [indiscernible] to spend those dollars.
But if we don't we'll look to step up our share repurchase activity as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two other quickies.
There was a reference to competitive pricing in the commercial segment.
If you could discuss that and then also some strength in CVP and maybe discuss why that occurred and the outlook for the remainder of the year there.
I'll deal with the CVP issue first.
That business is very very cyclical; not so much seasonal but cyclical.
It's based on programs and there were a number of large programs that went through in the first quarter.
So we were pleased with the demand there.
As it relates to pricing pressure that was really a Store Fixtures comment not an Office comment.
And as that business is seasonally weak in the first quarter there's a number of us that are hunting for volume.
So there was some pricing pressure there.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Focusing on Residential Furnishings EBIT margin improved 50 bps despite the 1% revenue decline.
Could you perhaps break that out between cost control and operational efficiency versus mix? And do you see the favorable mix shift being sustained through the remainder of the year? It will have to do with some product mix obviously in some of the bedding products.
Let me just mention first we don't have -- we're not going to provide a specific detail relative to the cost versus the mix.
Both our contributing favorably.
The mix issue is what I think Karl and Perry have both discussed relative to the growth of Comfort Core.
But both are favorable.
Both are likely going to continue to help us in the coming quarters.
Yes and I might add -- Perry sorry to get in front of you here.
But Daniel one of the things that will likely cause an improvement in those margins that volume which we expect to see an uptick in volume and obviously we've got fixed costs that are observed over whatever volume we have.
So if that volume picks up we're going to see contribution margins pick up in both Residential and bedding.
Our next question is a follow-up from Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any comments on the overseas business? You have some modest exposure there.
Actually Herb thank you for asking that question.
We'd probably surprise some listeners to know that our European spring business was actually up strongly in the first quarter.
The units were up 5%.
The mix was good.
We're pleased with that business.
We made comment that the European automotive business was soft.
That is really a year-on-year comp issue and that we were a little surprised that the demand held as strong as it did in the first half of last year and then really fell off in the back half.
So we'll anniversary that comp.
Asian demand continues to be very very good in automotive less strong in the residential side mostly impacted by that softness in our promotional price point volume.
Our last question comes from the line of Fred Speece with Speece Thorson Capital.
What's your calculation of the incremental margin for this quarter? And what's your guidance for the midpoint assume? Fred I think we're coming close for the full year up to the 30% contribution margin that we've talked about.
I mean obviously 25% to 35% continues to be our range.
We've at the midpoint of the guidance have a very good strong contribution margin contributing there.
Obviously that's mix-sensitive.
It matters where volume comes from.
But as we peel the layers back we would expect that somewhere in and around that sort of 30% range is close to what we were able to deliver in the quarter.
Fred good to hear your voice.
This is Dave.
One thing you might be interested in and some of the other listeners may have an interest in it.
As you know we monitor our capacity utilization by business unit and each one of the business unit managers and segment heads and Karl specifically really look over this closely and so we still -- we're in the low 60% average utilizations.
Those vary.
There are some they go all the way up to 100% like at the rod mill.
But we're seeing some improvement in this utilization which you would expect as our overall demand goes up.
But we still have plenty of room.
So depending upon mix is that $400 million $450 million $500 million worth of incremental sales at that margin that Susan is suggesting? We think so.
So not a lot of capital expenditure requirements for capacity are going to be needed here for at least another $400 million worth of top line.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
We thank you for participation and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Second Quarter 2013 conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you Mr.
DeSonier.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's second quarter conference call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
Dennis Park who is Senior Vice President of the company and also President of the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment is also joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
As we mentioned last quarter we plan to periodically include each of the segment presidents in these calls.
The agenda for our call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2013.
Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights and finally the group will answer any questions you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release in the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our call.
As we reported yesterday second quarter earnings from continuing operations were $0.44 per share up 13% versus the $0.39 per share from continuing operations that we earned in the second quarter of 2012.
Same location sales grew 2% during the quarter.
Unit volumes increased 3% but were partially offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill.
Unit volume growth was largely driven by strength in carpet underlay Store Fixtures automotive and Commercial Vehicle Products.
EBIT grew and EBIT margins improved by 100 basis points to 10.3% in the second quarter primarily from higher unit volumes.
During the quarter we exited 3 small operations and as a result recorded a $0.05 per share benefit in discontinued operations primarily driven by taxes.
These 3 operations collectively generated only about $15 million of annual sales during 2012 but posted slightly negative EBIT.
We are also exploring possible strategic alternatives for our Commercial Vehicle Products business one of which is the potential divestiture of that business.
In late May we acquired a small aerospace 2 fabrication business adding to the aerospace products business unit that was formed in early 2012 with the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube.
We continue to look for opportunities to carefully grow the company through well-screened acquisitions in attractive markets.
Optimizing returns on capital employed continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the second quarter with working capital at 12.5% of annualized sales which is well below our 15% target.
In May we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share.
2013 marks our 42nd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $31.71 the current yield is 3.7% which is one of the highest among all of the S&amp;P 500's dividend aristocrats.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that will end on December 31 2013 we have so far generated TSR of 19% per year on average which currently places us in the top third of the S&amp;P 500 companies.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Matt? Thank you Dave.
And good morning everyone.
Operating cash flow grew during the quarter to $99 million an increase of 22% over the second quarter of 2012.
For the full year we now expect to generate over $350 million of operating cash flow again comfortably exceeding the amount required of fund capital expenditures and dividends.
During calendar 2013 dividends should require about $125 million of cash which is lower than a typical year since the dividend normally paid in January 2013 was accelerated into December last year in anticipation of higher tax rates.
We now expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $85 million.
We repurchased 1.2 million shares of our stock in the second quarter.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
Our financial base certainly remains very strong.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital at 29.3% slightly below the conservative end of our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
As we stated in yesterday's press release sluggish demand in certain of our end markets led to a reduction in our full year guidance.
We now expect sales growth between 1% and 4% resulting in full year sales of $3.75 billion to $3.85 billion.
That's versus previous guidance of $3.8 billion to $3.95 billion.
Given this expected lower level of sales growth we now anticipate 2013 earnings of $1.55 to $1.70 per share.
This includes $0.05 per share from discontinued operations which we just reported in the second quarter.
Earnings from continuing operations are now expected to be between $1.50 and $1.65 per share.
Our prior guidance anticipated that continuing operations would earn between $1.55 and $1.75 per share for the full year.
As a reminder and for comparison purposes we earned $1.47 of adjusted EPS from continuing operations in 2012.
While we do not issue quarterly guidance we want to remind everyone again that our store fixtures business faces a very challenging year-over-year comparison in the upcoming third quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same location sales increased 3% in the second quarter from higher unit volumes in certain product categories and raw material related price increases in carpet underlay.
In our U.S.
Spring business sales increased 2% in the quarter.
Innerspring unit volumes decreased 1% however the growth in the Comfort Core innerspring category continued with those higher margin units up 13% during the quarter.
Our box spring volume growth outpaced the market with units up 12%.
In furniture components sales decreased 2% in the second quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 6% but was more than offset by an 8% decrease in motion hardware unit volume.
Adjustable Bed units were down 14% in the quarter.
Product introductions planned for next week's bedding market in Las Vegas should benefit volumes in the back half of the year.
In carpet underlay sales increased significantly in the quarter from higher unit volume and price increases implemented to recover higher raw material cost.
In this segment second quarter EBIT and EBIT margins increased slightly versus the second quarter of 2012.
The benefit of higher unit volumes favorable product mix in U.S.
Spring and gains from building sales were partially offset by margin compression in our fabric converting business.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same location sales increased 11% in the second quarter.
As expected strong program shipments in store fixtures drove 17% sales growth in that business.
In Office Furniture components volume was down slightly during the quarter.
We are optimistic about the longer-term view for the office furniture industry but we expect 2013 volume in this business to be somewhat soft.
EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the second quarter of 2012 reflecting higher sales in the absence of last year's restructuring related expense.
As Matt mentioned in his comments earlier we will face very strong third quarter comparison in this segment from large store fixture programs that were shipped last fall.
In the Industrial Materials segment second quarter same location sales decreased 9% due in roughly equal parts to lower trade sales in our rod mill and steel related price deflation.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the quarter was more than offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales and the rod mill continues to run at 100% capacity utilization.
As we've stated in past quarters a change in the mix of rod sales from trading intercompany is generally positive to earnings since that change tends to also shift the production mix to higher value high carbon rods.
EBIT and EBIT margins for this segment increased during the quarter primarily due to the absence of last year's acquisition-related cost gains from equipment sales and earnings from small acquisitions.
In the Specialized Products segment same location sales increased 7% in the second quarter.
Automotive sales increased 6% with strong growth in Asia and North America partially offset by lower demand in Europe.
We also experienced strong sales growth and improving performance in Commercial Vehicle Products.
Machinery volume increased slightly.
EBIT and EBIT margins increased during the quarter primarily from higher sales.
Automotive industry forecast project low to mid single-digit growth in both North America and Asia this year and low single-digit declines in Europe.
These forecast aggregate a global growth of 2% for the year.
With content gains we expect to outperform this industry growth rate.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Karl.
As fellow shareholders we are pleased with the company's performance since making this strategic change a few years ago.
We continue to focus on the levers that influence total shareholder return including profitable growth and margin enhancement.
The very attractive Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition in 2012 and the more recent addition of other small companies to that business or another small company to that business platform are examples of our high priority on disciplined growth.
In addition the meaningful margin increase in recent years with further improvement anticipated in our current year guidance is further indication of our high priority on value creation.
Despite the progress we've made we're not content with the current level of performance and we have implemented additional initiatives to further enhance profitable growth and EBITDA margins.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Claudia we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
On the raw material front could you discuss what you're seeing currently? I know some steel prices have been rising so I was hoping to get some color on that and what the potential impact it might have.
Josh this is Karl.
Actually since the third quarter of last year steel has been flat to slightly softer biased.
There has been some announced increases that are expected to go into effect sometime August September based on about a $25 a ton scrap increase.
We'll see if those increases hold.
But right now our forecast is for the third and fourth quarter show flat to slightly upward trend.
Okay great.
And then just one more related question on steel.
You mentioned in the press release some raw material price increases in the Residential segment but some price decreases in your Industrial segment.
Can you discuss the dynamics there? Yes the price increases in Residential were singularly placed in carpet underlay where there had been a significant shortage of the scrap material that ultimately becomes rebonded carpet underlay.
In the first half of this year there were a number of price increases implemented.
We now believe as we start the third quarter that we're fully recovered the first time we've been in that position since the tail end of the fourth quarter of last year.
In Industrial there was a slight downward pressure at the rod and then wire level in the second quarter of this year.
As I said earlier we expect that there will be some reinflation in both wire and rod in the latter part of the third quarter based on currently announced increases.
Okay great.
And then just one more for me on the adjustable foundations could you discuss what you're seeing in that business currently? And I think you had mentioned in April that was back on track.
So just hoping to get some color on that and maybe a peek into July what you're seeing.
This is Dennis Park.
Basically what has occurred there in the second quarter there was a major promotional effort nationwide on a program that we did not participate in and quite frankly it was successful.
We had not lost any 4 position and next week we will be making an introduction of 2 new programs at the Las Vegas Furniture Market and the early reports are very positive about how that will be received in the marketplace.
So we feel very good about the back half of the year.
Okay.
And in July has things -- have they picked up at all? They're basically flat.
July is in line with what we experienced over the last -- really over the last 6 or 8 weeks.
Our next question is coming from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Last quarter you brought up the bottom end of the guidance range and obviously this quarter's shifting back down slightly.
Maybe just rank order the biggest change or changes in the demand environment over the last 90 days.
Dan this is Karl.
It's all sales related.
It's across all of our businesses that I can't point to any one single business unit or certainly at a segment level.
It's our expectation in April that there would be a stronger back half of the year.
We did not experience that obviously in the second quarter.
While we think we had a really strong second quarter from an operating performance standpoint the one area of disappointment was lack of top line and we're forecasting the continuation of that through the back half.
Generally we were more optimistic just a quarter ago as it relates to sales than we are today.
Inc.</strong> Okay maybe a quick follow-up.
The strides you've made in bringing down working capital are pretty remarkable.
Can you maintain the 12% 13% range of revenue? Or should we expect that trend to trend back up toward your stated 15% objective over time? Dan this is Dave.
I'm glad you asked that question because I ask it often.
Karl? Dan and Dave the answer is yes.
Short of a real severe increase in raw material inflation call it steel there may be periods of time before we cycle through that bump up which we did not forecast that.
We have no visibility.
I don't see that in the future.
That's the only caveat that I continue to give to Dave and Matt who want to continue to push our target down below 15%.
Absent that that 12.5% 12% to 13% range is where we live.
And Dan I appreciate what you said.
Our operating folks have done a really good job in that area.
It's a constant area of focus and they're incentivized to keep the working capital in line.
And I'd just add to that that as time goes on one of the things that we look at when we look at acquisitions of course is the overall use of capital and some of the businesses may have longer receivable terms and things like that.
So it could be biased slightly upward or for that matter downward with businesses that Karl really and the team the segment guys have done just an incredible job of keeping that working capital in place.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig back into the adjustables a little more.
What is your sense of the growth rate in the industry there? Have we found a top at all in adjustable or is it still just straight up? Keith this is Dennis Park.
Actually in the second quarter industry-wide it seems our sales check indicate that the industry growth rate did slow still continues to be a pretty positive category.
It -- and looking at where it's going from here we certainly feel that if you look at the attachment rate it is still relatively low and we think it continues to have significant upside.
And our investment in new product introductions and innovation that we will be bringing out here shortly we think we'll tap into that opportunity quite well.
Keith this is Karl.
I'll pile on a little bit.
Very much agree with what Dennis said with an attachment rate of sub-5% and demographics of the U.S.
population going forward and what we've seen in International markets we absolutely believe that the category has a lot of upward capability in it and the second quarter was just a soft quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And switching over to furniture what kind of sense for the second half of the year are you getting from your furniture customers at this point? Actually Keith the second quarter started pretty slow.
April and May were slow.
We started to see some pickup in June and I would say collectively the furniture manufacturers feel a little bit more bullish than the bedding side.
Our domestic hardware units were up 8.5% in June.
It feels like there's more strength in U.S.
manufacturing certainly some Chinese domestic consumption softness and some softness in Europe that had a negative impact on our mechanism sales in the second quarter.
But yes I would say that overall we'll know more next week in the Las Vegas Market.
The furniture manufacturers are pretty bullish right now.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My one questions is/are what are the issues you mentioned Chinese local demand and Europe I guess impacting that motion upholstery figure? And then I'd love some color on the compression on fabric margins and what to expect there going forward.
John all of the mechanisms that we sell in Europe are manufactured in Asia and Asian -- as a matter of fact let me separate from a furniture hardware standpoint.
We gave you an aggregate at 8% number down.
Domestic was up 3%.
International was down 12% and some of that is impacted by soft consumption in Europe some of it again soft consumption.
Domestic China is relatively a small part of the market and we had some market share loss that is minimal and we expect that we've anniversary-ed now in the second quarter to a maker/user a Chinese based maker/user who is using a larger percentage of their own mechanisms.
And as far as fabric converting goes there was a little bit of inflation in the first quarter polypropylene based and then some deflation in the second quarter.
And from a competitive perspective it looks like the market got a little ahead of itself in some price deflation activities both Asian produced and U.S.
distributed.
That will normalize here in the third and fourth quarters from a year-on-year perspective.
But really what that is is a comp issue in that the margins in the second quarter of 2012 were pretty darn healthy and they narrowed in the beginning of the second quarter of 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi &amp; Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all good to see you back in buying stock back.
You expected that I know.
My question is the discontinued operations are they just going to be shut down? Are you selling them off? And the follow-on is does this free up any cash of significance? Herb this is Karl.
The one facility which is a geo mold facility based in Texas is in the process of being closed.
The little CVP action was a divestiture that closed during the second quarter and the other which was in industrial was a dishwasher rack business that has been closed.
In terms of freeing up some cash the answer is yes because there'll be some working capital pickup and we will certainly gain on the sale of some of those assets.
Herb I'd add the little CVP businesses just to be clear is not our entire CVP unit.
We've talked about that being under review.
This is a small operation that was a subset of that particular business unit that was actually built during the quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Apologize if we get some speaker noise behind me.
I guess my question David one is to kind of a larger issue of reinvigorating growth of the company and we've been at the operating model now for a number of years which you've done a great job on.
You've delivered a lot of TSR.
That way -- can you hear me? Yes we can hear you Budd.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I'm just curious now how do we start to see growth? I know we've got the -- we had the Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition and I just want to hear from you where you want to drive the company in terms of growing top line and the bottom line over an extended period of time for the next maybe 3 to 5 years.
Sure.
Be happy to respond to that Budd and we've said fairly often recently that we want to grow our top line somewhat conservatively at 4% to 5% per year and maybe half of that comes from GDP-type activity.
The other half of it comes from other initiatives.
Those initiatives of course include acquisitions and just a side comment our acquisition radar screen if you will is significantly more attractive at this point than it has been in the past that of course coupled with the fact that we're more critical in the screening protocol that we use when we look at those acquisitions.
But I feel comfortable that acquisitions and then some new product developments which we don't talk about every new product that is developed but generally speaking even if a new product cannibalizes an existing product there tends to be an incremental improvement in revenue and a simultaneous improvement in margin.
So I do believe that you're going to see more on the acquisition front.
I hope that you'll be comforted with the fact that we're more critical than we've ever been on what we pay for acquisitions and what their long-term strategic fit will be for the corporation and new product development.
And then day in day out the operating people the sales and marketing people are out there looking for ways to gain market share in the markets that we already participate in with the products that we have.
And the last comment I'll make sorry to ramble is that we've also modified our compensation program just this year so that we will be compensated -- we're no longer issuing options.
And what we're doing is we're issuing performance grants that may or may not be paid out and they will only be paid out if we see meaningful growth in revenue above a defined target and/or increases in EBITDA margin.
And that's really what I was referring to in that brief comment in my opening comments.
All those things combined we think will give us what we need not just for the next 3 to 5 years Budd but hopefully for a much longer period of time than that.
And Budd if I could add on an organic opportunity standpoint and I'll speak just to 2014 the auto statistics show 6% growth rate next year with our increased content.
Our auto should grow at greater than that if that 6% industry growth holds together.
The forecast for office is stronger for next year than this.
Aerospace is expected to grow from a production perspective greater this -- next year than this.
As long as consumer confidence holds together with the housing statistics that we're dealing with now we're confident that we'll see continued growth in carpet underlay and we continue to be very bullish on furniture and bedding but it takes a confident consumer.
We'll see what happens to the consumer in the back half with inefficiency of our government over the whole debt ceiling situation which makes us a little bit nervous but we'll see how all that plays out.
Another positive trend is we are now just eclipsed 3 quarters in a row where innersprings are growing at a faster rate than non-innerspring bedding.
So the belief that innersprings are dead is proving to be not factual.
So we're very very bullish but we're just concerned about the back half of this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes to me I think you pay more for the -- you get more value for organic growth than you do for the acquisition growth.
Western Pneumatic was a fine acquisition but it was expensive.
I just would love to hear at some point in time talk a little bit -- give us a product vitality metric or something that lets us know how we're doing in really generating new product sales for the company to deliver some organic growth that is visible to the investment community.
Yes Budd that's a very good point.
It's Dave again.
Well I didn't bring the vitality index information in here.
We do monitor that and I apologize because I don't have it in front of me.
The vitality index is up and the way we define that is revenue generated from products that did not exist 36 months ago and we're not talking about just changing an SKU from white to blue.
It has to be a bona fide new product.
So we do monitor that and we will provide some additional information.
You should make a note and we'll talk about it next time we all get together.
And we agree with you incidentally that generic growth is worth more than the acquisition growth.
We clearly agree with that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Any update on the potential time line of divestment or sale of CVP? And then beyond that are there other business or product lines that the board is looking at as potential divestment candidates? Yes Dan we're still gathering information through the M&amp;A department and an investment banking firm that we've engaged.
We have a meeting I guess it's next -- I can't remember which day.
Two weeks yes on Tuesday week after next to assess that situation and that'll give us very contemporary data.
And at that particular point in time we believe we'll be able to at least cross the -- or make the decision on whether we pursue divestiture or keep it in our portfolio and if we do then what are the attributes of changes that we'll do.
So we're not there.
We're not ready to say we're definitely going to sell this business but strategically we think it would make sense for our shareholders to trade that business for some dollars that we could reinvest in something that would provide better returns and/or some shares that we would buy back.
Inc.</strong> Helpful.
And Susan I'm going to take a crack at one just being really lazy can you perhaps quantify the EPS impact of the spike in the store fixtures demand that took place during last year's Q3? Dan we have not quantified that data externally.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
Thought I'd give it a shot.
Appreciate it.
Dan I will tell you from a modeling standpoint we expect that sales will be off about $35 million in the third quarter from a top line standpoint.
I like Susan won't give you the EPS impact but expect that that's the magnitude of the top line effect.
Offset significantly by the other segments.
Correct.
Yes just in store fixtures.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question.
If you do sell CVP will those proceeds just go into the normal [indiscernible] use of cash flow or will there be a special use for those? Or what's kind of the view now? Keith they become generic dollars if you will.
We've got some opportunities to invest in the not-too-distant future either in acquisitions or obviously in our shares.
So we don't have them earmarked.
It's not something that's driving us to generate x number of dollars that we're immediately going to redeploy.
It just goes into Matt's pocket over there and then we'll go back down when we need the cash and ask him for it for an acquisition or the share repurchase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One other follow-up.
You had mentioned your July mattress business was more or less flat what you've seen for the last couple months.
Was there any sort of -- let me ask it this way did you see kind of a spike on 4th of July and then kind of a tail-off after that? That's kind of been the history of the industry for the last couple years.
Did that occur here again in July? Yes Keith it did.
It absolutely occurred over Memorial Day and then again over the 4th of July there's a -- some softness that builds to really pretty good holidays.
But then there's a vacuum that's created really before and after each one of them.
So the bedding industry both at the manufacturing and the retail level has conditioned the consumer to only buy mattresses when they're heavily discounted and heavily promoted.
So it's a little bit of a feast or famine.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you add it all up you get kind of a flattish industry is your opinion is that right? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi &amp; Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a breakdown of the carpet underlay business as to how much would go into residential versus commercial? Boy it's primarily -- Herb it's primarily residential based but there is a healthy mix in that we supply all types of carpet underlay.
So it's residential industrial and commercial actually because of the foam rubber and fiber attributes of each one of those.
But off the top of my head I don't know what that mix is.
I don't either Herb but I may have mentioned this previously.
But on industrial applications that is significantly biased towards the fiber and the rubber based product whereas residential is virtually all a foam based component.
Our next question is a follow-up from John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I hit the lottery this morning.
Let's see I just wanted to clarify I guess Dave that your reference I think it was additional initiatives does that relate to this compensation issue for growth and/or margin? And then secondly a Comfort Core question I recall those percentage gains year-over-year being up in the 20% 30% 40% range in I think it was '13.
Is that just anniversary-ing really tough numbers? Or is there something else going on there as it relates to Hybrid? Okay.
Yes John on the first one the initiatives was curled because while that modified compensation program which we feel comfortable will assist us in generating incremental sales of higher margins is important.
There are a lot of other I mean almost countless initiatives.
A pretty good -- across the company.
A pretty good example is in Dennis' group where they've redefined the sales protocol to incentivize our salespeople to go out and gain incremental volume which is a different compensation program than they've had in the past.
Many of those types of things are happening across the board.
John and on the Comfort Core question first quarter sales were up 32% in units.
And as we said the second quarter was up 13%.
The second quarter was a little soft.
We have certainly anniversary-ed but we would expect in the back half of the year to run at that 13% rate or greater as more lines of Hybrid or Comfort Core -- Comfort Core is used in lines other than just Hybrid.
But as more products are launched there certainly has been widespread industry acceptance to that product offering.
So the rate of growth might -- probably less than long term less than that 32% but it still should be very healthy.
Our next question is coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
In Office Furniture could you say what your customers are seeing right now their expectations for the back half of the year? Yes Josh the BIFMA statistics show about 2% gain forecasted for 2013 across all of the categories.
Seating is probably a little softer than that maybe flat.
They're starting to anniversary some stronger numbers in the first half of last year.
So I would say they and we believe that the second half year-on-year comparison will be positive.
Okay.
And any insight yet into what 2014 may hold? Yes they're forecasting about 4% but it's early.
It's mitigated somewhat by the loss of government-related spending.
Okay.
And then in Europe you saw some nice gains in the Spring business.
Again this happened in the first quarter as well.
What's causing that business to perform so well while most other things in Europe are either flat to down? Actually you are right.
European units were up 18% in the second quarter after a strong first quarter.
I will say the mix isn't as good as it was a year or so ago.
So we're selling more units but of lower average unit selling price and lower specification.
The reason for our relative success in Europe is we tend to be U.K.
and Northern Europe based Scandinavian countries where higher quality higher average unit selling price is consumed.
We don't have much of a position in the southern part of Europe.
We continue to gain some share because of some currency exchange rate negatives to others that are trying to ship into the U.K.
where we're really the only large producer of any size on the island.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
We'll just say thank you.
We appreciate your attention and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's third quarter conference call.
With me today are the following: Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
In addition Joe Downes who is Senior Vice President of the company and President of the Industrial Materials segment is joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
As we mentioned earlier this year we plan to periodically include each of the segment presidents in these calls.
The agenda for our this call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for the remainder of 2013; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-looking Statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
As we reported yesterday third quarter earnings were $0.49 per share versus $0.45 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Current quarter results including $9 million or $0.06 per share benefit from an acquisition purchased at a negotiated price less than the total accounting fair value of its net assets.
Excluding this unusual item earnings per share decreased to $0.43 primarily due to lower sales.
Same location sales decreased 3% during the quarter from a combination of factors including one the non-recurrence as expected of the large JCPenney Store Fixtures programs that were concentrated in the third quarter last year.
Two lower trade sales from our rod mill; and three weak demand in Commercial Vehicle Products.
These declines were partially offset by continued strength in global automotive demand and growth in carpet underlay.
Excluding the unusual acquisition-related benefit EBIT and EBIT margins decreased in the third quarter primarily from lower sales.
In late July we acquired another aerospace Tubing business with annual revenues of approximately $40 million adding to the business unit that was formed in early 2012.
This French-based acquisition expands our portfolio of Tubing products to include small diameter high pressure seamless tubing.
This tubing is used in hydraulic fuel engine instrumentation and air conditioning systems and is complementary to the large diameter low pressure welded tubing produced by Western Pneumatic Tube which was the initial platform acquisition we made last year.
We have identified meaningful cross-selling opportunities across our 4 aerospace businesses as well as opportunities to improve the performance of this recently acquired operation.
With this acquisition and a smaller U.K.-based business we acquired in the second quarter our aerospace products business unit now has an annual revenue run rate of approximately $120 million.
The development of this new business platform aligns very well with our strategic emphasis on improving the overall margin mix of our businesses by entering attractive markets where we can develop or extend a strong sustainable competitive advantage.
In conjunction with our priority on critically reviewing our businesses for strategic value we are continuing to explore possible alternatives for our Commercial Vehicle Products business.
One of which is the potential divestiture of that business.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long-term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that will end on December 31 2013 we have so far generated TSR of 15% per year on average which currently places us at the midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 companies.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Matt? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Operating cash flow grew to $116 million during the third quarter an increase of 22% over the same quarter last year.
Working capital contributed $21 million to operating cash in the quarter and consistent with our normal seasonal patterns should be a significant source of cash in the fourth quarter as well.
Optimizing returns on capital employed continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the third quarter with working capital at 12.3% of annualized sales which is well below our 15% target.
For the full year we expect to generate over $350 million of operating cash again comfortably exceeding the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by 3.4% to $0.30 per share.
And 2013 therefore marks our 42nd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $29.67 the current yield is 4% on our stock which is one of the highest among all of the S&amp;P 500 dividend aristocrats.
During calendar 2013 dividends should require about $125 million of cash which is lower than a typical year since the dividend normally paid in January of 2013 was accelerated into December last year in anticipations of higher individual tax rates.
We expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $85 million.
Our depreciation and amortization expense this year should total around $120 million.
With current capacity utilization rates still relatively low our need to invest in additional productive capacity is limited.
We continue to make investments for maintenance efficiency improvement and growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong.
As volumes improve we expect capital expenditure levels to increase but longer term they will likely remain at or below total depreciation and amortization expense.
As a reminder our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we are efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exists.
Returns should continue to improve as we expand EBIT margins while controlling invested capital in this way.
In other uses of cash we repurchased 1.1 million shares of our stock in the third quarter.
Year-to-date through September we have repurchased 3.9 million shares and issued 3.1 million.
Approximately 2/3 of the issued shares were employee stock option exercises earlier in the year in response to higher stock prices.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
As of today we have approximately 6 million shares still available under this year's authorization.
We recognize that our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital of 27.9% which is well below the conservative end of our long-term targeted range of 30% to 40%.
As we stated in yesterday's press release we now expect full year sales of approximately $3.75 billion which is 1% growth versus 2012.
Our prior guidance range was $3.75 billion to $3.85 billion.
Given this expected level of sales we anticipate 2013 earnings of $1.61 to $1.66 per share including $0.05 per share from discontinued operations and 6% -- $0.06 per share from the third quarter unusual acquisition-related benefit that Dave mentioned earlier.
Adjusting for those earnings from continuing operations are expected to be between $1.50 and $1.55 per share.
And this implies a fourth quarter EPS guidance range of $0.31 to $0.36 on sales of approximately $900 million.
Our prior range for full-year continuing operations was $1.50 to $1.65 per share.
And as a reminder we earned $1.47 of adjusted EPS from continuing operations in 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt and good morning.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same location sales increased 6% in the third quarter from higher unit volumes and certain product categories and raw material related price increases in Carpet Underlay.
In our U.S.
spring business sales decreased 2% in the quarter.
Innerspring unit volumes decreased 4% however growth in the Comfort Core innerspring category continued with those higher priced and higher-margin to units up 12% during the quarter.
Our boxspring volume was also strong with units up 8%.
Sales grew 4% in international spring primarily from market share gains in Europe.
In furniture components sales increased 4% in the third quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper business grew 5% and motion hardware unit volume was essentially flat.
Adjustable Bed units were down 10% in the quarter.
In Carpet Underlay sales grew primarily from price increases implemented to recover higher raw material costs.
Third quarter EBIT and EBIT margins increased in the segment primarily from higher sales.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Component segment same location sales decreased 20% in the third quarter.
As expected Store Fixture sales decreased significantly due to the non-recurrence of the major JCPenney programs that were concentrated in the third quarter last year.
In office furniture components volume was up slightly during the quarter roughly tracking the overall market for office seating.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the third quarter of 2012 due to the lower sales.
In the Industrial Materials segment third quarter same location sales decreased 10% with about half that decline from lower trade sales in our rod mill and the balance from steel-related price deflation and lower unit volumes.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the quarter was offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales.
And the rod mill continues to run at 100% capacity utilization.
As we stated in past quarters a change in the mix of rod sales from trade to intercompany is generally positive to earnings since that change tends to also shift the production mix to a higher value high carbon rods.
EBIT and EBIT margins for the segment decreased during the quarter primarily due to lower sales and reduced metal margins.
In the Specialized Products segment same location sales increased slightly in the third quarter.
Automotive sales increased 9% with continued strong growth in Asia and North America partially offset by lower demand in Europe.
In Commercial Vehicle Products sales were down 30% in the third quarter.
Large fleet customers pulled volume forward into the second quarter and curtailed capital spending in the third quarter on near-term macro concerns.
The seg that's -- EBIT and EBIT margins decreased slightly during the quarter as continued strength in automotive was offset by weak performance in CVP from lower sales and operating inefficiencies at a recently consolidated facility.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
We began 2013 with expectations for stronger demand in many of our end markets.
And while those improvements have been slow to occur in certain areas we are generally encouraged by the positive direction several of our businesses are headed.
We continue to be very optimistic about the growth potential in our automotive business for the next several years.
Industry forecast project 4% global production growth in 2014 with all the major geographies positive versus 2013.
With content gain we expect to outperform this industry growth rate.
We are also encouraged by the longer-term view for the Office Furniture industry and expect improving growth rates in our business in 2014.
Customer backlogs and aerospace support industry demand strength in that business for several years.
Our Adjustable Bed business has recently gained significant market share that we will start to see the benefit from in 2014.
And with consumer confidence and housing generally on the upward track our Residential Furniture Components and bedding businesses are poised to benefit as demand in those end markets improves.
And with those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Christine we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
On the adjustable foundations I know -- I had read at the recent High Point Market you introduced a new foundation that my guess comes in at a more affordable price point perhaps due to some less functionality versus your other foundations.
Is that some of the benefits that you had just mentioned in 2014 you expect to see? Yes Josh this is Karl.
Yes that's part of it.
We're continually introducing new product lines.
But more specifically Dave's commentary related to some significant customer that are specific to customer gains that will incorporate some of the new technology that we introduced in the -- at the High Point Market.
You'll see again in the hands of specific customers at the Las Vegas Market in January.
Okay.
And then the decline in the quarter the 10% was that more the same just the promotional behavior from some of your competitors? Or was it just lower demand? Josh that was part of it.
Part of it was that we were up against a very difficult comp.
The third quarter of 2012 was really strong.
Also about 1/3 of that backslide was related to a credit issue with a specific customer it was an e-commerce customer.
That situation has since been resolved.
I will say the loss lessened as the quarter progressed.
So we believe that the fourth quarter performance we certainly won't see that rate of decline and as I said are very enthusiastic about the pickup that we'll see in the first quarter of next year.
Okay.
I wanted to ask you about the cadence.
So my impression was -- originally that it slowed down through the quarter but it sounds like it actually had picked up.
Is that correct? It became less bad yes.
Okay.
And then just last one on the adjustables.
Is it -- the loss that did occur from this slower demand was it your sense that it came equally from the bedding manufacturer that you supply? Or was it a mix between them and some of the retailers that you supply? It was a mix of the 2 certainly Josh.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Obviously based on the guidance as we look out to Q4 I'm not seeing immediate improvement in the near-term.
If demand doesn't pick up as you elaborated or might expect early in '14 do you have levers of room to further improve efficiency and reduce costs? Dan this is Dave.
There are always some levers yes.
It's difficult to take a particular freestanding plant off-line unless -- especially if that plant has some unique manufacturing capabilities.
We've chosen not to -- I mean obviously we've reduced the productive capacity a few years ago to what we thought was prudent.
But the answer is yes.
There are always ways; the operators and I can let Karl comment on this if he will are always looking for ways to manufacture the products at a lower demand level in the most efficient way.
And there's also fixed cost of course that if for some reason we were to see additional pullback that we would have to reduce some fixed cost.
Karl? Yes.
I would certainly agree with that Dan.
If business stays flat going forward we'll continue to do our analysis of facilities as we always do.
Our operating team really deserves a lot of credit for the margins that we've seen.
The improvement in margins that we've seen in what has really been a flat demand year.
So if you see that continue expect that our margins will improve we'll continue to be tactical around each one of the activities and work each one of those levers.
It's interesting in a flat demand environment our capacity utilization actually is decreasing because we're becoming incrementally more efficient at every turn.
Inc.</strong> Very helpful.
And one quick follow-up perhaps.
The -- maybe just elaborate on the acquisition in aerospace tubing if not the purchase price what's the margin profile look like? And how does that fit in strategically with Western Pneumatic? Yes Dan this is Joe Downes.
The business it should follow the same profile of the Western Pneumatic as far as earnings and -- or the earnings on their sales.
They do open up some markets for us for some of the Western products to be sold to Airbus which is a major customer especially tubes.
And in turn we will be able to -- we expect to be able to take the seamless tubing that -- especially to producers and introduce it further to Boeing because of our entres [ph] that we have there with Western.
And Dan this is Dave.
I wish it was larger business because that margin profile is attractive for our shareholders.
We'll continue to look for ways to grow that the entire unit.
But that seamless tubing which is high-pressure low-volume displacement is very -- it's different type tubing but it's very complementary because it's used by the same customer base.
And there's a nice cross-selling synergy if you will to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rohit Seth in for Keith Hughes.
Karl this question is for you.
We're looking at the sales trends for U.S.
springs down to international springs up for furniture components.
So there's a divergence of trends there can you provide any additional color on what's driving that divergence there? You know that the -- let's go through a little bit of a walk that -- I think I'll get this question later anyway.
So if you'll give me just a second I'll give you the U.S.
spring walk and then comments on the other markets and how it differs.
The innerspring units as we reported were down 4% in the quarter.
The trend by month was July down 2%; August down 4%; September down 5%.
Boxspring units conversely were up 8% for the quarter.
Some of that was impacted by a significant growth by Simmons.
In March of this year Simmons started to take some really pretty significant share and grow their position which as you probably know we enjoy all of Simmons' open coil business but they self-produce their pocketed coils.
We do have all of their boxspring business.
So as they have grown that that is part of the reason our boxspring volume has grown significantly.
They have taken some business from some of the smaller manufacturers.
Simmons offering a better product quality in terms of using a metal base boxspring instead of a more promotionally priced wood foundation that's a good switch to us.
Also what's driving boxsprings is around the major holidays the 3 large producers they've all engaged in free boxspring promotions.
So that's driving some consumption.
I'll also digress for just a second and I know a question that I'm going to get is how does this all compare to the ISPA statistics.
ISPA is showing through August that sales of mattress units were up 1.4% up 3% over the last 3 months.
We expect that there will be a -- at the end of the year true up while ISPA does really a good job of aggregating the data that they're given in their monthly vetting barometers.
Last year earlier this year for 2012 there was an adjustment because of the reporters taking business from the non-reporters.
We expect that that will happen again for this calendar year.
All that said is we believe the industry is flat to possibly negative in units so far this year.
Another thing that I want to say and this tends to maybe sound a little defensive but we're proud of this in that innersprings are certainly gaining share from alternative sleep.
When ISPA launches their September numbers they'll give the actual third quarter trend and that will be the fourth quarter in a row that innerspring is taking away from specialty.
Some of that driven by the consumption of the growth of Hybrid innersprings which correlates to that Comfort Core number that we gave you with units being up 12%.
The trend there was July up 6%; August up 14%; September up 15%.
October will be stronger than September.
From an October trend standpoint in innerspring units they're up 5%.
Boxspring units are 12 through the first 3 weeks.
It's a little bit odd for us in that the last 2 weeks of September the trend was innerspring units were down 15%.
That probably was an outlier.
We picked some of that up in October we're not real sure why that happened.
We don't know if it was window dressing.
We just don't know.
It was an unusual activity which had a negative impact on our consolidated third quarter numbers.
As it relates to the rest of the segment demand in Europe has been stronger than most people would expect.
We're gaining share.
Innerspring units actually in Europe were up 20%.
We're seeing some recovery of growth in South America.
On the furniture side to the rest of your question the trends there -- the third quarter in furniture was really pretty strong.
We expect that.
That's their seasonal strength.
Today business in furniture continues to be reasonably good.
Probably not as strong as the third quarter but probably slightly stronger than last year.
And I apologize for the rambling answer.
But I took advantage of your question to answer some others that I'm sure will come.
Our next question comes from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess since Joe is there let's just kind of concentrate on the industrial.
And you answered a little bit of the question on the new acquisition.
And I hope David you can find more acquisitions with -- where you purchase the assets below fair market value.
I do too Budd.
And I'll pile on only if they perform in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the question is if you look into 2 different margin profiles of the business coming out of sterling and the other self-production that you do and trade sales versus the tubing business which has got a higher margin profile looks like if I peg it right that the margin in the -- for self-production side it's somewhere between 5% and 6%.
Is -- first of all is that -- am I somewhere near right right now? And the second question is where does that go for Joe in the near-term and maybe over the intermediate term? I don't know that I have that broken down between the sort of legacy industrial business versus the aerospace business.
Remember aerospace currently with the recent acquisition is on $120 million revenue run rate.
We won't have all those revenues obviously in place this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I adjusted for that Susan.
Yes.
I mean this year's EBIT margins will be between 8% 9% in the segment.
Overall I would suspect that the legacy part of that is going to be a little higher than what you backed into.
Budd it's fair.
I mean relatively speaking Budd.
As you would expect the aerospace tubing product line is meaningfully more profitable.
The contribution associated with it on a margin basis is meaningfully higher than it is of the mechanical tubing which is the legacy tubing that Susan is talking about.
While we don't give the margins out relatively speaking it's meaningfully higher.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understand that.
And it looks like the spread at least has -- between the cost of scrap and rod has come in over the last year fairly substantially.
What's the outlook for that? I guess that's the other way of asking that same question.
Budd this is Joe.
Right now there is a significant overcapacity both in the U.S.
as well as worldwide in the steel industry.
And that's going to keep margins under pressure into the future.
All of the rationalization and the benefits realized from what the steel industry did in the early 2000s as you might expect as margins improved everybody started investing.
Most of the new steel mills have come in Asia but there is an overhang of excess capacity.
I do believe that will keep pressure on margins in general probably for some time into the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that overcapacity Joe is in long product in the rod? I don't know that it has been identified that way just a number of the analysts that follow the industry very close estimate right now that there's about 2.1 billion tons of production capacity in the world.
Estimated maybe 850 million 850 million of that is in China.
And the consumption rate today is about 1.5 million.
Now normally you can think in terms of the loan products being a very small portion of that.
Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In regards the acquisition in France.
Most companies I've talked to are trying to get out of France with significant labor problems et cetera.
And I'm curious as to the vetting process as to how you view this.
Herb this is Joe again.
I would probably echo what a lot of the other people would've echoed from other companies regarding France.
But our people did convince us that this was a good fit it was something that was a natural extension of what we were already doing and having the welded tubing here this extended us into seamless.
We spent quite a bit of time on the due diligence of these businesses and a lot of that was spent on the HR aspect of it and they do have a good relationship with their union there.
And we felt like after doing our due diligence we felt like it was the proper thing to do and we expanded -- now we expanded into France.
I will tell you it was kind of interesting and this is something we learned it took a -- the French government approval of this acquisition because specialty tubes does a small amount of business with the French in the defense industry in France.
And we were delayed with the closing by about 6 weeks.
We finally closed it the 31st of July and they immediately were taking 3 weeks vacation in the month of August.
So that's quite an adjustment for us in the third quarter.
They have 9 works worth of ownership and expenses and only 5 weeks -- that's just poor timing that we couldn't overcome.
It's Dave.
As you might expect we use different discount rates when we establish enterprise valuations based upon the territory of the operation and many other variables.
But the discount rate that we use certainly was one of the reasons that we're able to purchase those assets at the level we purchased them.
Yes.
Herb this is Matt.
I'd just had one other comment that last year when we bought Western which we again continue to feel really good about it has exceeded our expectations and it was something in the neighborhood almost of $190 million investment as you recall.
This investment in France starting out of the gate is less than $15 million of cash investment.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Dillard Watt with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see if you might be able to elaborate a little bit on -- any of the commentary on a possible divestiture in CVP.
And what else may you be thinking the fact that results of have been a little bit more difficult.
Is that making things a little bit harder in terms of finding a buyer? Just any kind of color you can give will be great.
Dillard I'll start and then if Karl want to comment he's certainly welcome.
We have been negotiating with one particular entity.
There was a broader array of interest to begin with.
But we've limited our discussion and negotiation with one particular entity to this point.
We haven't decided finally whether we're going to sell this.
We're still in that negotiation so it's important to send that signal out there.
And to your point yes when a business fails to meet expectations it's harder to negotiate price than if it went the other way.
So it's obviously a benefit that we would have if the business was outperforming as opposed to underperforming.
However saying that we continue to seriously consider the divestiture and we will do so only at a level that we feel is in the best interest of our shareholders.
Other parts of our portfolio we continue to look at them Karl and the operators look at them very critically every year.
And any time we see an underperforming part of our business we will give serious consideration to changing it's position in the portfolio if need be.
Karl or...
The only thing that I would add Dillard I think it's important to remember on CVP that the second quarter sales were abnormally strong.
So that business is a cyclical business.
And the third quarter was really indicative as we said of a pull forward into the second that we continue to enjoy very strong customer relationships.
That business is a solid business going forward it's just a challenge from a cyclicality perspective.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Just a quick follow-up on the CVP it was down 30%.
You said you mentioned a fleet operator that pulled back due to macro concerns.
Was that in your estimation due to the government shutdown? And has that fleet operator since resumed spending? Well Josh I don't know why they pulled.
It wasn't a specific operator.
It was kind of a macro industry issue.
And why they pulled back I can't tell you.
Their forecast across the board shows some continued weakness in the fourth quarter with some recovery in the first.
So we just don't know.
It's a good question.
Okay.
And then Karl I know you gave us a lot of detail on the spring business and I appreciate that.
I just want to go over some numbers just to make sure I have them right.
For the U.S.
spring July August and September was down 2% down 4% down 5% in September but the last 2 weeks of September you mentioned were down 15% is that correct? That's correct.
Okay.
And then October was up 5%? Yes so far yes.
And then's through -- obviously through 3 shipping weeks.
Okay.
And did you also break up the Comfort Core as well? Yes I did.
It was up 6% up 14% and up 15%.
And based on the October shipments to date I would expect that we'll beat that September 15% growth rate.
The Comfort Core placements continue to grow pretty significantly.
Okay.
So it sounds like the way the spring business played out was a little different from the way the adjustable foundation played out over the quarter.
Is that fair to say? Absolutely.
We're not real sure on that.
The last few weeks of September falling off like that that is really an outlier over any of our historic analysis.
It was unexpected.
So we don't know if it was in consumer-driven demand weakness or if it was just customers optimizing inventory because they did recover pretty strongly in those first couple weeks of October as I said.
And you didn't see that same drop off in the last 2 weeks in the adjustable business though? No we didn't.
And then just last.
If you try to factor out the popularity in Hybrid mattresses is -- the comment you made that innerspring is taking share from specialty.
If you factor out Hybrid do you think that comment is still true? Well I haven't analyzed it at that level Josh.
I -- and this is speculation which is a little dangerous.
I believe that it probably is because there is growth around some of the promotional price points.
It seems like in the early days of the economic recovery there was really strong demand at the ultra premium price points.
And ultra premium we define as above $2 000 in queen.
There's weakness around all those price points now.
It feels like even the Hybrid strength is in the $1 200 to $1 500 range but it feels like if there is more promotional sub-$1 000 strength this year than there had been previously.
Though it's difficult to rationalize all those mix shifts.
But we're reasonably comfortable with the promotional price points.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Turning to the balance sheet.
You've been running obviously below your net leverage target levels for a quarter or 2 now.
Absent further or larger acquisition opportunities would you look to accelerate share repurchases? Or do you see more of these smaller tuck-ins on the intermediate horizon? This is Matt.
I think right now and Dave can talk about -- comment on the pipeline from an M&amp;A perspective.
But it appears that it's relatively low right now.
So yes in keeping with our priorities of cash I think you should anticipate that as we generate the excess cash flow that we've been predicting $350 million of total operating cash for 2013 and frankly there's a bias even from that number I believe it's up right now.
I think you would see us buy more stock here as we look forward and we have in the last quarter or 2 based upon our predicted uses for that cash otherwise which right now are relatively modest as best we can tell.
Mr.
DeSonier we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
We'll just quickly say thank you for listening and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to Leggett &amp; Platt's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's fourth quarter conference call.
I'm Dave DeSonier and with me today are the following: Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
Jack Crusa who is Senior Vice President of the company and also President of the Specialized Products segment is also joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
The agenda for our call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2014 Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-looking Statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
We are pleased with our underlying operating performance in the fourth quarter and encouraged by the sales momentum in certain of our markets.
But a few factors impacted us from a reported GAAP earnings perspective.
Consistent with our announcement on December 17 we recognized a $67 million or $0.31 per share noncash charge related to the goodwill and intangible assets of our Commercial Vehicle Products business.
In addition increases in steel costs late in 2013 resulted in a larger-than-expected LIFO expense of $12 million in the quarter.
The timing of the steel cost increase has concentrated the LIFO impact into the fourth quarter and ahead of the benefit we expect from selling price increases.
We've begun implementing price increases to recover the higher costs and should realize a benefit in first half of 2014 that offsets this LIFO impact.
And the earnings per share impact from higher LIFO expense was essentially offset by a lower-than-normal effective tax rate in the quarter.
Fourth quarter earnings adjusted to exclude the CVP impairment charge were $0.35 per share in line with the guidance we issued in late October.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 earnings per share adjusted to exclude an $0.18 unusual tax benefit were $0.32.
Same-location sales increased 3% during the fourth quarter with growth in Automotive residential furniture bedding Carpet Underlay and Machinery partially offset by lower demand in store fixtures and CVP.
EBIT and EBIT margins adjusted to exclude the CVP impairment charge decreased in the fourth quarter.
The earnings benefit from sales growth was more than offset by higher steel costs and the concentration of the yet-to-be-recovered LIFO expense that I mentioned earlier.
For the full year earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude the fourth quarter CVP charge and a $0.06 per share unusual acquisition-related benefit from the third quarter were $1.54 per share.
Full year 2012 earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude an $0.18 per share unusual tax benefit were $1.47 per share.
Same-location sales were essentially flat with modest unit gains offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill.
Sales grew primarily in automotive and Carpet Underlay but these gains were partially offset by declines in Store Fixtures CVP and Adjustable Bed.
Adjusted EBIT and EBIT margins for the year were roughly flat with 2012.
We expanded our aerospace tubing business unit in 2013 with the acquisition of 2 companies.
The first was a small U.K.-based business acquired in May that extended our capability in aerospace tube fabrication.
The second was a larger French-based company acquired in July that added small-diameter high-pressure seamless tubing to our product portfolio.
With these acquisitions our Aerospace Products business unit now has an annual revenue run rate of approximately $120 million.
The development of this business platform aligns very well with our strategic emphasis on improving the overall margin mix of our businesses by investing in attractive markets where we can build or extend a strong sustainable competitive advantage.
As discussed earlier in the year we've been considering strategic alternatives for our Commercial Vehicle Products group including possible divestiture of the business.
As we progressed through the quarter it became apparent that current market values for certain CVP assets had fallen below recorded book values and impairment charges related to the goodwill and other intangible assets of the business were recognized.
This decline in current market values of the assets resulted from lower expectations of future revenue and profitability reflecting reduced market demand for the racks shelving and cabinets used in telecom cable and delivery vans.
We now intend to increase focus on improving the operating performance and cost structure of the CVP business.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on rolling 3-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the 3-year period that ended December 31 2013 we generated TSR of $0.16 per year on average which placed us at the midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 companies.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for 2014.
Matt? Thanks Dave.
Good morning everyone.
Once again we generated strong cash flow in the fourth quarter with operating cash of $178 million.
For the full year operating cash flow totaled $417 million.
Working capital contributed $26 million of that amount a notable accomplishment since we ended 2012 with particularly low levels of accounts receivable.
Optimizing returns on capital employed continues to be a major focus for our operations.
We ended the year with working capital at 10.1% of annualized sales well below our 15% target.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by 3.4% to $0.30 per share and 2013 marked our 42nd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $30.69 the current yield is 3.9% which is the fourth highest among all of the S&amp;P 500's Dividend Aristocrats.
In 2014 we expect to again generate over $350 million of operating cash.
Dividends should require about $170 million in 2014 and capital expenditures should approximate $100 million.
Our depreciation and amortization expense should again total about $120 million.
With current capacity utilization rates still relatively low our need to invest in additional productive capacity is limited.
We continue to make investments for maintenance efficiency improvement and growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong.
As volumes improve we expect capital expenditure levels to increase.
But longer term they will likely remain at or below total depreciation and amortization.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we are efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exists.
Going forward returns should continue to improve as we expand EBIT margins while controlling invested capital.
In other uses of cash we repurchased 2 million shares of our stock in the fourth quarter bringing our full year repurchases to 6 million.
We also issued 3.2 million shares during the year.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
We recognize that our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the year with net debt to net capital at 27.3% well below the conservative end of our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
The economic outlook for 2014 is a bit brighter than it has been for some time.
Most forecasters are calling for a modestly better U.S.
economy in 2014 though they note that headwinds will still exist.
For planning purposes we expect 2014 sales growth to accelerate and EBIT margins to expand.
We anticipate full year sales of $3.85 billion to $4.05 billion or 3% to 8% growth versus 2013.
Based on this level of sales we expect 2014 earnings in the range of $1.65 to $1.85 per share which would represent another year of record earnings from continuing operations.
This compares to adjusted continuing operations EPS of $1.54 in 2013.
Now I'll turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt and good morning.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same-location sales increased 6% in the fourth quarter from higher unit volumes in several product categories and raw material-related price increases in Carpet Underlay.
In our U.S.
Spring business sales increased 1% in the quarter.
Innerspring unit volumes were essentially flat.
However growth in the Comfort Core innerspring category continued with those higher-priced and higher-margin units up 35% during the quarter.
Our boxspring volume was also strong with units up 8%.
Sales grew 8% in international spring primarily from market share gains and increased Comfort Core sales in Europe.
In Furniture Components sales increased 9% in the fourth quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 13% and motion hardware unit volume was up 7%.
Adjustable Bed units were down 11% in the quarter.
In Carpet Underlay sales grew primarily from price increases implemented to recover higher raw material cost.
Fourth quarter EBIT and EBIT margins increased in the segment primarily from higher sales.
For the full year same-location sales in the Residential segment increased 3% largely from growth in Carpet Underlay partially offset by declines in Adjustable Bed.
EBIT and EBIT margins improved primarily from higher sales in certain product categories cost improvements and favorable product mix in U.S.
Spring.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales decreased 8% in the fourth quarter.
Store Fixtures sales decreased 10% and volume in Office Furniture Components was down 4% during the quarter.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to the lower sales.
For the full year Commercial segment same location sales were down 6% and EBIT decreased on the lower volumes.
In the Industrial Materials segment fourth quarter same-location sales decreased 4% with slightly higher unit volumes more than offset by steel-related price decreases early in the quarter.
EBIT and EBIT margins for this segment decreased during the quarter with acquisition earnings more than offset by lower metal margins and late quarter inflation in steel costs.
For the full year same-location sales in the segment were down 8% with about half of the decline from lower trade sales at our rod mill and the balance from steel-related price deflation.
The decrease in trade sales of steel rod during the year was offset by an increase in intercompany rod sales; and the rod mill continued to run at 100% capacity utilization.
As we stated throughout the year the change in the mix of rod sales from trade to intercompany is generally positive to earnings since that change tends to also shift the production mix to higher-value high-carbon rods.
Full year EBIT and EBIT margins in the segment improved primarily due to the absence of acquisition-related cost in Western Pneumatic Tube and earnings from other acquisitions.
These gains were partially offset by lower metal margins in the second half of 2013.
Our Aerospace business continues to perform well and earnings should further benefit in 2014 as we fully integrate recent acquisitions.
In the Specialized Products segment same-location sales grew 8% in the fourth quarter.
Automotive sales increased 20% from a combination of expanded content participation in new vehicle platforms and demand strength in each of the major markets.
Same-location sales grew 17% in Machinery during the quarter.
In Commercial Vehicle Products sales declined 30% -- 32% in the fourth quarter.
Large fleet customers pulled volume forward into the second quarter and curtailed capital spending in the back half of the year.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margins excluding the CVP impairment increased during the quarter primarily from higher sales.
For the full year same-location sales grew 4% with strength in Automotive partially offset by declines in CVP.
Full year EBIT and EBIT margins adjusted to exclude the CVP impairment increased primarily from higher sales.
With those comments I'll turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Karl.
As we look forward into 2014 and beyond we are encouraged by the positive direction several of our businesses are headed.
We continue to be very optimistic about the growth potential in our Automotive business for the next several years.
Industry forecasts project 3% global production growth in 2014.
With content gains we expect to outperform this industry growth rate as we did in 2013.
We are also encouraged by the longer-term view for the office furniture industry and expect improving growth rates in our related business in 2014.
Customer backlogs in aerospace support industry demand strength in that business for several years.
Our Adjustable Bed business has recently gained significant market share that we will start to see the benefit from in 2014.
And with consumer confidence in housing generally on an upward track our Residential Furniture Components and bedding businesses are poised to benefit as demand in those end markets improves.
And with those comments I'll turn the call back over to you Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Jessie we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Dave you sounded increasingly optimistic obviously around 2014 and you touched on some of these topics at the end of your prepared remarks.
But in Automotive obviously seeing a nice pickup there.
In the core businesses mattresses and furniture what gives you the confidence that consumers are likely to get off their hands and get out there and increase unit purchases? And then a quick follow-up is simply what is the tax rate embedded in your adjusted $0.35 EPS for fiscal Q4? Okay Dan.
In fact we were talking before the conference call just amongst ourselves about the fact that we indeed do feel better about 2014.
Things seem and indices would indicate that business is likely to be better in a broad array of our business units.
Those things that I did mention of course there's some publicly available information that would support that.
And then relative to your question about some of our core products it's a broad-based combination of facts that lead us to believe that we're going to see improvement in those Dan obviously interacting with our customers taking a look at what they're planning to provide at markets what sort of new products they're asking us to pursue timing of those.
But the general uplift of the housing market and consumer confidence going forward is likely to lift a lot of ships not just Leggett's core businesses.
So I don't want to come across as overly optimistic.
We're a fairly conservative company.
But I can tell you the group that sits here with me today feel like 2014 is likely to be a meaningfully better year and obviously Karl and his operating people have generated a forecast that would suggest that.
Now I'm going to hand over the tax rate -- I know the answer but I'll give it to Matt and let him comment on the tax rate that was embedded in that 2014 forecast.
Well the forecast is basically implying for 2014 a tax rate approximately 30%.
In the fourth quarter alone Dan it was certainly a bit of a cluttered quarter but it was about 11%.
And again that was a function of a lot of unique occurred in that quarter not in our decision-making but because of the taxing jurisdictions that we are involved with literally all around the world.
Specifically Mexico China Canada and Austria are all 4 examples of activities that occurred in the fourth quarter with decisions or ruling that proved to be beneficial in this case and drove our tax rate down uniquely which of course we mentioned in that fourth quarter EPS result.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
So that $0.35 is on the $0.11 tax rate -- 11% tax rate? Yes.
The next question is coming from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
With respect to the revenue guidance I was just wondering if you can tell me at the midpoint what it implies for each segment? Yes Josh.
Just in kind of rough terms Residential would be at somewhere around 4%; Commercial up 1 point or 2; Industrial up around 6% with about half of that actually coming from the acquisitions that we completed earlier in 2013.
You'll remember those were roughly midyear so we still have some of that benefit carrying into 2014.
And we expect strong growth in Specialized.
Obviously Automotive did really well in the fourth quarter.
That growth would be up somewhere around 10% or 11% next year.
All of that aggregates to kind of a midpoint growth in the ballpark of about 5% 5.5%.
Great.
Just on the other expense line the $59.3 million in the quarter could you talk a little bit about what that was exactly? That's the impairment showing up in there.
Yes Josh.
There was of that total $60 million -- call it $67 million of impairment there was about $63 million of that.
In fact I think it was exactly $63 million that hit the other line.
That was specifically the goodwill impairment.
We also impaired another customer-related intangible but we did that by accelerating the amortization on that particular asset.
And so that that hit -- I think it's the line above on the table that you're looking at the amortization expense.
Okay.
So nothing there that should be recurring in the following quarters? There's always a little bit of other income or expense.
But no not relative to those 2 items.
The next question is coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question really is in Industrial.
I'm trying to get some more color and understanding of the bridge between last year and this year.
We've got good-performing Aerospace this year.
And last year while you still had it I think there were some charges that were still -- accounting charges that still were depressing or at least toward the first half of last year maybe not in the fourth quarter.
But I'm trying to understand how do we get to that $3.2 million bridge when we keep saying that Western Pneumatic and the other 2 new acquisitions are performing well? And so can you maybe put some color you just add some numbers to that if you would? And is Aerospace around 20% or 25% of revenue of that segment now? The run rate that it's at Budd is about $120 million.
But of course we didn't have all of that revenue in 2013.
I'll get that pretty quick.
No 16% 17%.
Okay so 16% or 17% of the segment revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how do we get to the bridge in the EBIT between the 2 parts of that? Budd this is Karl.
Let's talk about steel pricing for just a second while Susan is trying to dig through a little of that.
The quarter was as you wrote in your note this morning a little ugly from a lot of perspectives.
But it certainly was in Industrial as it relates to steel pricing and this commentary primarily relates to the long or round products.
But what we experienced in late September early October was some selling price deflation in both rod and wire with sale -- with pricing pressured by an abnormally large amount of import rods so rods that were flooding into the country from primarily China and Turkey that were taking down that sell price while scrap was relatively flat.
And then -- so that there was an oddity in that we were experiencing actually in the business units some FIFO expense and -- with revaluing inventories because of the selling price.
And then what happened in November and then accelerated in December was a significant inflation in scrap -- in domestic scrap costs driving selling prices up.
We did not incur the benefit of those selling price inflation.
They were announced in the month of December but they start -- became effective first week of January and second -- and first week of February as it relates to wire and rod.
So that drove that big LIFO issue.
And I can't remember having FIFO expense and LIFO expense in the same quarter.
So it was that dramatic swing that caused some of the pressure all manifested itself in a metal margin spread that was tighter than anything we've experienced in quite some time.
Now in the first quarter we should have the benefit of the wire and rod selling price increases.
Simultaneously between Christmas and New Year's we announced selling price increases into the bedding industry that become effective in the first quarter.
So that's the cause of the chop so to speak in Industrial.
It will also have somewhat of an impact going forward.
So the first quarter of this year is going to be somewhat pressured by the increased cost and then the delay that's our typical delay in getting those price increases implemented in both in Industrial and in Residential.
This is Dave Budd just one other thing.
We had a little bit of a hiccup if you will it wasn't nearly as large as the things that Karl was talking about in our steel tubing products not aerospace tubing but steel products tubing where our margins were lower than we had originally had hoped they would be in the fourth quarter.
That's another element of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I heard you right let me just see if this math works then it looks like that the metal margins were somewhere between 3% to 4% in the quarter and the balance of that of $160 million or so of sales and the balance would be the Aerospace margins on those sales.
Is that about right? I don't know the answer to that Budd.
I might -- my sense is that may -- if you go through that calculus that may give you aerospace margins that are higher than you -- I know what you're trying to calculate but I don't know.
I'll just have to go back and check that.
But I do want to reaffirm that our Aerospace business is performing very very well.
So you should not look at Industrial in the fourth quarter and say "Hey these guys were being a little disingenuous with Aerospace." Aerospace is doing well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you want to put any quantification on that Karl? Very.
This is all you're getting.
It's performing at -- above our expectations at the time that we made each of those individual acquisitions.
So very well.
The next question is coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask and you don't have to go into minutiae of products but was wondering as you enter '14 and you look at key product areas you referenced a couple where you were going to have market share gains I think -- or had market share gains.
I think international springs was one and there was a reference to tending share gain in adjustables.
But could you go through the whole company key product areas and cite where you think you're gaining share or losing share.
Did it influence the numbers when we look at '14 versus '13? We'll start with Residential.
John this is Karl.
U.S.
Spring is an area that we are gaining the benefit -- continued benefit of Comfort Core which gives us optimism as we go forward.
To see that growth rate of 35% in units and growth of hybrids is a very good thing for us.
Admittedly the U.S.
bedding market has been pretty soft.
I think when they -- ISPA sorts through and trues up we'll probably ultimately report that units were down in 2013.
The ISPA forecast for '14 is 2% real unit growth so that would help us.
As we -- the furniture performed -- home furniture performed extremely well in the fourth quarter as it did all year.
We expect that it will continue to perform well there.
As more upholstery is manufactured in North America that's a very good thing for us especially in seating and distribution.
Rest of segment carpet continues to just be a macro benefit from correlated to housing.
As we said as Dave said in his comments we expect some strength in office.
Office has been under pressure the last couple of years.
We expect -- as supported by the BIFMA forecast of 2% to 3% growth this year we feel good about that business and have also experienced some market share gains there as well.
Moving into Industrial I spoke to Aerospace.
Certainly feel good about that and the aircraft manufacturer build plans going forward.
Automotive is a great story that we -- the fourth quarter of last year we saw productive growth in Europe for the first time in a number of quarters.
So Europe bottoming out and becoming a contributor is a good thing and we continue to gain content in each vehicle produced.
So that gives us that general optimism augmented by the macro statistics.
Relative to specific where do we get these market gains? In Adjustable Beds we know specifically who those customers are that have made that change and they're customers that are significant bedding manufacturers.
It's business that has already been consummated.
We're taking that business from another adjustable bed manufacturer.
So we try not to just assume that we're going to gain market share.
John you know that about us.
Only when we know that we've realized that market share will -- we build it into a budget.
Now that doesn't mean we can't lose market share too.
And obviously competition is what it is.
But there's also some major I'll just say development work that's -- that happens that's built into this forecast with some customers.
Most of those are existing customers.
Some of them are new customers.
So we build that into a budget based upon a risk profile or probability profile that we think's prudent.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Dave probably just to kind of sum it up it's -- I hear share gains in office.
I -- content share gains I guess in Automotive particularly in Europe.
Share gains in adjustables maybe a lingering share gain in innersprings internationally.
All gains.
Any areas where you see any losses going into '14? John nothing of any magnitude.
There's always puts and takes but I can't think of anything of any magnitude that would be considered a loss.
Good question though.
The next question is coming from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One back to the other expense line.
You highlighted the $63 million of the charge that was in there which still leave a kind of positive 3 on that number.
What were the other elements that made it a positive 3? Nothing that comes to mind immediately Keith.
I can look at that and get back to you.
But there weren't any other large things in the quarter.
Yes Keith we had a small real estate building gain.
It's part of that 3.
It's certainly's not all of it.
A few other I mean knickknacks.
Clearly it's a cluster of a number of things.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to your comments on commercial furniture besides some share gains on those components that you had discussed do you see that business growing faster than the BIFMA numbers? Is there a chance that could be up mid-single digits in the industry? Strictly should seating -- the seating category grow faster than the macro BIFMA numbers? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It could.
Frankly I don't know why it would.
I think that we'll outperform that data point because of the gains that I spoke of.
But I don't know that there's any real reason Keith that seating would grow faster.
That -- at NeoCon the last NeoCon the launches tended to be across all product categories not heavy-weighted to seating.
So I don't know that seating would get an inordinate share of that growth.
As some of our customers -- as you know Keith we do some private label-type business right now where we produce the entire component or chair for our customer.
And that appears to continue to be gaining some interest by some of our customers to bring that activity to Leggett.
And indeed the 2014 forecast does have some more of that type of revenue growth or content if you will in it.
But I'm not Karl.
It's hard for us to dispute the BIFMA numbers -- numbers of BIFMA.
And I think they do as good of job as anybody in trying to forecast that.
The next question is coming from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is that things seem to be coming together reasonably well for you across most sectors.
What areas are the most concern to you? I'll let Karl and/or Matt comment too.
I have some concern -- continuing concern Herb with Commercial Vehicle Products.
Mind you we've righted the balance sheet the value that we carry to what we think is the right number now.
But I continue to have some concern with that part of our business.
Of course Jack is here with us and he can comment on that if he wants.
We're highly focused on improving that business since we chose not to give it away.
We could have sold it.
We chose not to at the prices that were offered.
I also have some continuing anxiety about some of our primary steel tubing.
It's more of a commodity-type product.
Certainly the antithesis of the aerospace tubing.
But I do have some concern about that commodity-type product.
Karl how about you? I would throw in Store Fixtures in that it's such a difficult business to forecast.
Our people do everything that they can to forecast that business.
But Herb as you know it's a seasonal and cyclical business that just is -- it's a tough business.
And we're optimistic from the standpoint that we've had greater access to bids and feel relatively good but it's a business because of the nature of the business that sometimes surprises us.
So that's a concern.
The other is as we pass through this raw material bulge we always get through but it's a challenge.
It -- there's the lag that's -- in kind of innate but at the same time there are some tough conversations with customers at a time that they're pretty bullish about their demand.
So it's always a challenge but our people are great at executing.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Maybe talk a little bit about capacity.
You reiterated in the press release that you have -- you've been seeing $400 million in additional sales with little needed CapEx.
Maybe talk about where that capacity is proportionally where -- I guess where if -- what areas of the business if you saw more material pickup you might need to start adding capacity over the next 12 months plus.
And one quick follow-up.
Yes Dan this is Karl.
Where we're tight on capacity is certainly at the steel mill.
As I said it runs at 100%.
But Automotive with Automotive's growth if we go back and look at the 2013 CapEx of $81 million of spend about 30% of that has been in Automotive.
That's a great thing because they're devoted to new programs awarded programs that will impact us today and well into the future.
But that's an area because of the growth in that business that we're a little tight.
In Residential Furnishings we're -- continue to be a little tight on Comfort Core as that has grown around the world.
So there's not much available capacity.
But we certainly have the ability to add capacity and continue to do so and certainly at -- more efficiency at each one of the -- the addition of each one of those machines.
I don't know of any other area that we're really tight.
There are capital investments.
We'll continue to heavy-weight to Automotive Residential and to the steel mill.
And that's not a capacity situation.
It is steel mills are just expensive to maintain but we improve utilization with most dollars spent there.
It's not just maintenance.
But Dave I don't know of another place that we're really...
Well it's interesting.
As you were talking I wrote down mine and I put Sterling Automotive and pocket springs which is Comfort Core.
Those are the 3 areas where -- and as you know Dan we can't wait to spend some more money in those areas.
That generic volume of course is very attractive to us.
And so we did bump up -- it's probably conservative but we did bump up forecast for CapEx in 2014.
Whether or not we'll spend all that we'll see.
But those are the areas where the capacity dollars are likely to go.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a couple of comments on the CVP business.
Given the sort of lack of demand in the marketplace and now you're going to kind of try to right the ship.
What do you think -- what margins are achievable or sustainable in that business as we look out over the next couple of years? The -- this is Jack Daniel.
And the target in a long-term perspective for CVP would be to get it up closer to the 9% to 10% margin range.
In 2014 that's going to be a challenge because we have a lot of -- we have moving parts.
The Ford business they're going to cease the production of the E-Series van and begin to produce a transit in Kansas City.
And we'll be establishing our presence in Kansas City to do that to support that.
So it will be a steady progression towards those improvements.
Historically we've seen that business in good years approach that 9% to 10% EBIT margin.
And in soft years it will be in the low single digits.
So to be fair I would probably use something in a longer-term perspective in the 6% to 8% range.
And the next question is a follow-up coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got a couple of follow-ups.
One Karl is there any update on the tariff situation? I think it's going through a review again.
Yes we're in early stages of that review now.
It's in the combination of a review Budd at the ITC and the DOC that -- at this point we expect the DOC decision sometime in March.
The ITC would trail that a little bit.
That -- we're very confident there because of circumstances have not changed.
You may have seen the recent publication of a Malaysian manufacturer that was speeding cheating lying and all those other dirty nasty things that they were doing in transhipping products in the United States.
And they were caught doing so.
That duty rate was -- of 234% was reaffirmed.
We see that as a good sign.
We continue to work with a number of other manufacturers of other products both steel and non-steel-related to deal with continued enforcement of the existing antidumping and countervailing duty orders as they relate to transhipment.
And we've done a pretty good job I think of engaging Congress and the DOC and Customs.
So they're certainly well aware of the situation and I think that bodes well for them adding another 5 years to the time frame.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you still think about 1 million units are finding their way in? And I think it peaked at about 4 million? Yes Budd I think that there's about 1.5 million units coming into the United States about half of those coming in legally and about half of those coming in illegally.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know Comfort Core has done real well.
But how will we think about pockets [ph] about coil versus open coil these days? It seems like open coil must be losing share and that's been a traditional Leggett strength or is a legacy Leggett strength for as long as I've been around.
That certainly is a good point that we have some open coil capacity that is available right now.
Some of it's being relocated in the other geographies.
But certainly if you deal with 35% growth in Comfort Core which today in the U.S.
is about 12% of our total business growing obviously quickly that it is obsoleting so to speak some open coil.
And I would suspect as you make your way around the showrooms in Las Vegas at market next week you'll see more Hybrid more Comfort Core introductions.
A number of us were in Cologne last week at the IMM Fair and boy there's pocket coil in places there that used to be open coil as well.
So it actually bodes well for us because of -- as you heard in my commentary the higher average unit selling price is at higher margins.
So it's been a good trend for us.
With us having access to the best machinery company in the world being Schpeul [ph] to manufacture those machines it has been a very good thing for us.
It allows us to innovate and we'll continue to innovate on each one of the triggers that trigger the consumers' purchase of a Hybrid product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and last thing from me if I could I guess to Matt maybe or Susan.
On the working capital on the cash from operations expectation of $350 million or more if I do the midpoint of it and with depreciation and amortization and maybe some stock compensation expense I get to like about a $410 million before working capital usage.
How should we think about that? If you do that midpoint I think it's $20 million more -- $200 million more of revenue.
What do we think about the use of working capital to get to your working capital or to your cash from operations for [indiscernible]? Yes great question Budd.
This is Matt.
If you look at the end of the year as I know you have done and the working capital rate is 10.1% you've heard us say for many -- several years now that our goal is 15% or that's our target.
We've been inside of that routinely.
We expect to stay inside that.
Our current modeling which again we think is conservative would estimate say around 12% 12.5% as a working capital investment on that sales growth that we anticipate taking place in 2014.
If you plow that into your model you would get something between $360 million and $400 million of operating cash flow to come out of 2014.
Again we would look forward to doing better than that.
Also as you well know seasonally the fourth quarter of the year is always the big operating cash flow time of those 12 months for us.
So a lot of that comes home to roost in the fourth quarter as it did once again this year.
So we say more than $350 million; we certainly feel very strongly about that.
Might it begin with a $400 million by the time we close this coming year's books? Could be the case just like it was this past year and the year before that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that usage how does that split between receivables and inventory? Yes we really -- we obviously look at all the pieces.
But if you take receivables inventory and payables where there's a lot of work going on the payable side that you can basically take that 10% all-in metric go to 12.5% and basically use all 3 of those pieces to find your way there.
Our next question is a follow-up question coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Just to -- another question on the Comfort Core is if you could talk about the cadence in the quarter I'm just curious if you saw a fall-off in December as some other companies have reported and just how January started off for you.
That's an interesting question Josh in that we didn't see a fall-off.
We did full disclosure see a fall-off in December in spring sales so I don't want to do anything to disconnect.
When we aggregate maybe I'll stop dancing with you.
Our total innersprings in December were down 6% in units so it was a tough month for people probably weather-driven.
But if we look at the cadence of Comfort Core up 38% in October up 28% in November and up 34% in December.
And I would expect us to continue to run at a pretty impressive rate as we have some insight into what our customers' introductions are next week in Las Vegas.
Karl were all those bedding Comfort Core or any of that furniture Comfort Core? Yes that's a good question Dave.
That excludes Comfort Core.
We're seeing significant growth in Comfort Core applications and furniture upholstery and to a very small extent in pet beds.
And all of that is excluded.
So it -- the growth in Comfort Core though back to home furniture is a good story as well.
Great.
And then just on the adjustable foundations if I think back to last quarter seems -- or the business seemingly was improving as the quarter progressed much like the Comfort Core business back in 3Q.
Can you just talk about what the falloff in 4Q was that you saw? Josh it was pretty constant in the quarter that it was -- aggregate to that 11% we ran at about that rate.
Actually the fourth quarter was -- the December month was exactly 11%.
And you've opened a door for me on adjustables.
Let's talk about that category for a little bit.
Dave made reference to it as well.
But the -- our path of distribution on adjustables had been primarily to -- direct-to-retail and we -- through what was admittedly a difficult year in 2013 we did not lose any retail floor placements.
What had happened to us is some of the OEM manufacturers did a really good job of packaging their mattress with a specific base and in some cases those bases weren't ours.
As Dave said some of that has been rectified and we're starting to shift those programs now.
So I think that we're behind the loss of Adjustable Bed business.
Okay great.
And then just one more for me.
On the slide deck I noticed for the 2014 guidance the contribution margin was 25%.
Normally you use a more normalized 30%.
What accounts for the change? Josh that acknowledges that in our sales guidance range we expect to have some inflation.
We haven't split out how much of that 3% to 8% is pricing and how much is units.
But admittedly some of it's going to be pricing.
And we don't get 30% contribution margin obviously as we've talked with you in the past about when it's price-driven sales growth.
So that really is just a bit of a hedge if you will.
At this point of the year it's difficult to identify exactly what's going to make up the sales growth but considering that some of that's going to come from pricing.
That just simply was just hedging that contribution of that.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any concluding comments.
Thank you.
We appreciate your time and we'll talk to you again in April.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Leggett &amp; Platt's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt Incorporated.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's first quarter conference call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
Perry Davis who is Senior Vice President of the Company and President of the Residential Furnishings segment is also joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
The agenda for our call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2014 Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning everyone and thank you participating in our call.
Yesterday we reported record first quarter earnings of $0.37 per share and 12% increase versus EPS of $0.33 in the first quarter of 2013.
This increase reflects an improved mix of sales across business units and a small gain from the sale of a building.
These factors were partially offset by the earnings impact of lower same location sales.
Same location sales decreased 3% during to the quarter primarily from lower volume in Store Fixtures and Commercial Vehicle Products versus strong prior year comps in both businesses.
In addition to weather-related demand weakness in the U.S.
bedding and wire markets these declines were partially offset by continued growth in automotive residential furniture and international spring.
Consistent with market in public company commentary over the past few months virtually all of our U.S.
based businesses were negatively impacted in the first quarter by extreme winter weather.
These impacts included softer than expected market demand production and transportation in efficiencies and higher energy costs.
Weather-related issues subsided in the later part of the quarter in sales momentum improved notably.
Following a very soft January and February March same location sales were up 6% and April sales should be positive as well.
Karl will discuss various business impacts in his comments.
Despite the first quarter challenges EBIT margin adjusted to exclude the $4 million building gain remained at the level achieved in the first quarter of 2013.
The Company has a high priority on margin enhancement and has engaged in many continues improvement lean manufacturing and cost containment initiatives throughout the enterprise.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling three year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long-term which we believe well require in average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
So far to the three year period that will end on December 31 of 2014 weve generated TSR of 22% per year on average which places us just about mid-point of the S&amp;P 500 companies.
Ill now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for 2014.
Matt.
Thanks Dave good morning everyone.
Increases in working capital from very low-end 2013 levels led to negative operating cash of $20 million for the first quarter.
This compares with positive operating cash of $24 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Working capital typically increases in the first quarter and operating cash is normally added slowest quarterly levels of the year due to the seasonal pattern of our businesses.
This year there was a larger number than usual in working capital of these factors.
Accounts receivable were impacted by the timing of sales in the quarter and growth in businesses and geographies that typically have longer payment terms.
As Dave stated earlier sales improved as the first quarter progress contributing to increase receivables towards the end of the quarter.
Inventory also increase in the first quarter primarily from specific opportunistic raw material purchases ramp-up of new product lines and weather related transportation delays.
We continue to gradually optimize accounts payable levels but the rate of incremental improvement has slowed.
We entered the first quarter with days payable outstanding at 43 days which represented a four-day improvement compared to last year.
With these increases we ended the quarter with working capital at 13.3% of annualized sales slightly above the 12.9% we reported in the first quarter of 2013.
But still well below our 15% target.
Based upon our current annual forecast and our normal seasonality we expect to again generate operating cash of over $350 million for the full year.
Dividend should require about $170 million of cash in 2014 and capital expenditures should approximate $100 million.
Our depreciation and amortization expansion total about $120 million.
With current capacity utilization rates still relatively low our need to invest in additional productive capacity is limited.
We continue to make investments for maintenance efficiency improvement and growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong.
As volumes improve we expect capital expenditure levels to increase.
But longer term they will likely remain at or below total depreciation and amortization.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we are efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exists.
Returns should continue to improve as we expand EBIT margins while controlling invested capital.
In February we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share and extended our record of consecutive annual dividend increases to 43 years.
At yesterday's closing share price of $33.74 the current yield is 3.6% which is the fourth highest among the 54 companies that comprise the S&amp;P 500 Dividend Aristocrats.
In other uses of cash we repurchased 1.5 million shares of our stock in the first quarter at an average price of $30.25 and issued 1 million shares.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the Company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year but have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt and net capital at 31.5% which is near to conservative end of our longstanding targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We continue to expect sales growth to accelerate in 2014 and EBIT margins to expand.
Reflecting recent strength in key markets we have raise the low end of prior earnings per share guidance by a nickel or leaving sales guidance unchanged.
Specifically we still anticipate sales of $3.85 billion to $4.05 billion or 3% to 8% growth versus 2013.
We now expect 2014 earnings per share of $1.70 to $1.85 which would represent another year of record earnings from continuing operations.
This compares to adjusted continued operations EPS of $1.54 in 2013.
Ill now turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt and good morning.
In the residential furnishing segment same-location sales increased 2% in the first quarter.
Volume trends were mixed across the segment.
In our US spring business sales decreased 4% inner spring unit volumes were down 6%.
However growth in comfort core inner spring category continued with those higher priced and higher margins units of 19% during the quarter.
Box spring volume decreased 1%.
Sales grew 10% in international spring primarily from market share gains and increased comfort core sales in Europe.
In furniture components sales increased 6% in the first quarter volume in our seating and sofa sleeper business grew 6%.
And motion hardware unit volume was up 5%.
Adjustable bed units were up slightly in the quarter.
New adjustable bed programs have begun to ramp up and this should drive significant volume growth in the back half of the year.
Weather negatively impacted most of our based residential businesses early in the quarter but especially our bedding-related operations and carpet cushion.
Volume improved across the segment as the quarter progressed and stronger demand patterns should continue as we move through the second quarter.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin for the quarter increased versus first quarter of 2013 primarily from higher sales and cost improvements.
A $4 million from a building sales in the current quarter was largely offset by the non-reoccurrence of $3 million Hurricane related insurance gain last year.
In the commercial fixture and component segment same-location sales decreased 22% in the first quarter.
Store-fixture sales declined significantly due to the non-reoccurrence as expected of certain major retailer programs from early 2013.
Volume and office furniture components grew 4% during the quarter from a combination of new programs and improved market demand.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin decreased versus the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower sales.
We are disappointed with the current year demand levels in store fixtures.
In the second quarter the group sales are forecasted to be approximately $25 million lower than they were on the second quarter of 2013 due to the non-reoccurrence of major retailer programs.
In the past year we have refocused our sales efforts in an attempt to decrease customer concentration and seasonality in this business.
While we believe we are making progress with new customers many expected new programs have been slow to start.
In response we are reducing costs in each operation to offset some of the earnings impact very soft sales.
In the industrial materials segment first quarter same location decreased 12% primarily from lower unit volumes in wire and rod.
EBIT and EBIT margin for the segment decreased during the quarter.
In many of the segments' operations but especially in wire and rod sales volume product efficiency transportation and energy costs were negatively impacted by extreme weather.
These issues have begun to subside as we move into the second quarter.
In addition metal margins continued to be under pressure in the first quarter as market conditions did not allow us to fully recover higher scrap costs.
But we expect improvements in the back half of the year as overall steel market conditions improve.
Our domestic aerospace business which resides in this segment continues to perform very well and earnings should further benefit in 2014 as we fully integrate our European acquisitions.
In the specialized product segment same-location sales grew 6% in the first quarter.
Automotive sales increased 17% from a combination of expanded content participation in new vehicle platforms and demand strength in each of our major geographic markets.
Same location sales increased 3% in machinery.
In commercial vehicle products sales declined significantly versus a strong first quarter of 2013.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter primarily from higher sales in the nonreoccurrence of a litigation accrual from the first quarter of last year.
With those comment I will turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Okay.
Thanks Karl.
As we look ahead at the balance of 2014 and beyond we continue to be very encouraged by the opportunities we are seeing in many of our markets.
With consumer confidence in housing generally on an upward track our residential furniture components and bedding businesses are poised to benefit as demand in those end markets improves.
Expected global growth in the automotive production along with new programs that we are winning should support strength in that business for the next several years.
The outlook for the office furniture industry anticipates improving long-term demand and consumer specific programs should augment that growth for us.
Excuse me customer specific programs.
And customer backlogs in aerospace support industry demand strength in that business for several years into the future.
And with those upbeat closing comments I will turn it back over to David DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we will be glad to answer any questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your single best question and then voluntarily yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please re-enter the queue and we will answer all of the questions that have you.
Christine we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking my questions here.
In the industrial materials segment if you back out the aerospace business it looks like margins in the rest of the segment were perhaps mid-single digits.
Can you talk about the current steel costs the traction on some of the price increases you recently placed into the market and also your expectations for metal margins over the next quarter or two?  Yes Josh.
Good morning this is Karl.
As you recall that scrap costs increased pretty significantly in November and December of last year.
And reactive to that we implemented price increases in both wire and rod and actually extended into the wire-based component side of our businesses.
All of those increases stuck and are in place as we speak.
Scrap has continued to inflate or I should say re-inflate in April and May so we have announced a new round of price increases in both rod and wire.
So we expect the metal margin while it improved as the first quarter progressed that it will improve in the second quarter but the real upside in that segment is in Q3 and Q4 where last year at that time selling prices were significantly depressed by the importation in the market of some very low cost Chinese rods.
While scrap moved about flat.
So those rods depress selling prices an anti-dumping suit was filed against the Chinese for dumping significant quantity of rods.
Those rods have stopped coming into the U.S.
So we expect metal margin re-expansion certainly to be somewhat significant in the back half of the year.
Thank you for that.
So you have price increases in wire and rod you have additional price increases coming in did you also have price increases in downstream products? We did in the first quarter.
Primarily in our U.S.
based bedding businesses and those were certainly implemented and we were successful as we are each time we have raw material inflation.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for that.
And then just a follow-on to the bedding that you touched on.
You also talked about positive momentum as the quarter progressed.
Does that refer to the U.S.
international comfort cores or traditional inner spring or a combination of all of them? Well Josh this is Perry Davis.
I will answer that question.
We did see an uplift in U.S.
spring as the quarter progressed.
If you look back in January a lot of this weather related we were off in terms of inner springs in the neighborhood of 11% in January.
In February about 9% and then in March about 1%.
So the quarter finished about 6%.
If you look internationally though Karl made reference to the fact that our European spring division had a particularly good quarter.
We have had growth there in the first quarter of the year of about 14% close to it.
Our Latin spring operations are performing well.
Although somewhat smaller than European spring but about 20% growth in terms of units there.
In both markets along with U.S.
spring we're seeing a real explosion in the comfort core product category.
Okay and on the springs units you said were down 6%.
Box springs were down only 1%.
What accounts for the variance between those two things? Yes.
A couple of things we have seen a trend over the last few months that has begun to impact the numbers on  in terms of steel wire foundations in the marketplace.
Some of the I will call it second tier or third tier bedding manufacturers that are our customers have begun to put steel back in their lines and replace some of what formally had been a would foundation.
So we have seen some growth there.
And then the other part of it is just some mix shifts between customers where we have more or less penetration with regards to inner springs and box springs.
Great.
I will hop back in the queue.
Thank you very much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Thank you.
A couple of questions.
One within the furniture components business.
It is a very strong number where discretionary spending was in the first quarter.
Do o you think that number is going to accelerate in terms of growth as you go through the rest of the year? Keith this is Perry.
I do think that we will continue to see strong growth in our furniture component business particularly domestically.
If you go back and look at the first quarter our U.S.
based mechanism and business grew significantly more so than our international business.
At the recent high point markets the mood was upbeat amongst most all of the upholstered motion manufacturers and we think we have significant growth opportunities for remainder of the year in that business unit.
Keith this is Karl.
Ill add to it.
Our people in our home furniture business has done a really job of product development and innovation.
We are gaining some market share and have an ability because of some patents being issued to push back some low cost low performance Chinese mechanisms that were being shipped into this country.
So the market is very robust.
Our shares are growing and our people are doing really a solid job in that business.
And in mattress components have you turned positive here in April? Has the trend continued the progression you gave earlier? Well I wish I could say we had.
It has not.
We had a bit of an anomaly.
In the first week of April we just saw a significant downturn in our sales.
Since then they have rebounded and we been maintaining a pace along with last year since then but that first week really for whatever reason dropped.
Some of it could have been a little bit weather related but really we are pretty much passed that this point.
So on a per day basis during April our shipments at this point are all circa 7% on inner spring volume but a lot of that again goes back to that first week of the month and since then the trends have been good.
And Perry that's all U.S.
oriented? That's all U.S.
oriented.
Our sales internationally in Europe and in Latin America continue at a pace well above last year.
And final question on it.
You raised the low end of the guidance.
I know you had the asset of the building sale in the quarter.
Was that the driver or are there other factors that caused to you raise the limit? That wasn't the primary factor Keith.
As you know what we do is we ask each and every profit center to go back and recheck or reanalyze their expectation for the quarter.
We do that on a monthly basis.
And there are some significant margin enhancing initiatives that are coming to bear.
Weve got some incremental volume of course discussed these in the past that are now starting to reach stride which is really helpful in some of those businesses.
So the upshot of it is we take that whole pot of reforecast and bring it forward and then we will take a look test it at our in this room for credibility due to some expected value analysis on it and the numbers are better than what we originally had by some  and so just  and we've got a quarter behind us and we should have a little more insight.
So it was just a matter of analytical analysis and coming up with what appears to be a better number.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
Is it possible to quantify the impact that weather had in the quarter on inner spring sales in the US? And the same question for wire and rod sales.
Dan this is Karl.
I don't know how we would do that.
Really from U.S.
inner spring we would have to compare it to macro market demand in a normalized environment and there is a lot of other noise going on as it relates to tax refunds and a lot of other things.
So it would be difficult.
On the wire rod side weather had a significant selling price or sales trend impact but more importantly was a huge issue as it relates to cost.
Our total energy costs were up about $3 million year-on-year.
Most of that was experienced in the industrial.
Many of our facilities across the country in industrial and really residential were shut down for days on end.
But the big steel mill in sterling Illinois actually went through a 24-hour period of curtailment that was imposed on them by the electric utility.
So it is difficult Matt made reference to our working capital numbers.
Our inventories are a little longer than we would expect especially in industrial material.
There is wire and  I'm sorry rod on the ground at that steel mill that we were unable to ship because of the lack of availability of rail cars.
So that helps us from a guidance perspective going forward.
Very good and that leads into the next question.
Obviously your confidence has increased with regards to the guidance on EPS.
Given the start to the year on revenue is the high-end of the range still as realistic as it was as when you went into the year? I'm just wondering why there wasn't maybe a tweak with regards to the range of guidance for the full year for revenue.
Dan I would answer that question I think that there is a higher probability that we will hit the top end of the range on EPS than the probability that we will hit it on sales.
Dan it is Dave.
As you would expect we take that same forecasted income statement from everybody and roll it up I mean we would rather be a bit conservative than the other way and so we effectively used what people rolled up to us for that.
And so hopefully it will be better than that but again we wanted to use the algorithm that we used as the mechanism for making that forecast.
Margins are enhanced several places throughout the enterprise.
And the guys won't admit it necessarily very directly but the revenues probably a little conservative but we're not willing at this point to bump the top line.
In 90-days we will have a much better feel and if it needs to go up we will definitely bump it up at that point.
Dan this may help a little bit.
To put things as you know we don't give quarterly guidance so you can't hold us accountable for consensus but our internal forecast for the first quarter was sales of $955 million even though consensus was $972 million.
We knew the first quarter was going to be soft from the store fixtures and a CVP perspective.
Our rollup aggregated forecast for the first quarter and this goes back to when we gave guidance in January was for $0.37.
Remembering our sales came in much softer than we originally forecasted.
So roll that all together through the process that Dave spoke to and we thought our first quarter was pretty darn good and have every expectation that our margins will improve at a greater rate in the back half than we originally forecasted.
Extremely helpful.
I will try more and jump back in queue.
Talk a little bit about the acquisition landscape.
I know it is always tough to say but what are you seeing out there your confidence around being able to allocate capital with regard to M&amp;A through the balance of the year? Yes.
I will take the first stab at it Dan and then if Matt or Karl wants to comment they can.
There are some projects there are some initiatives that are in the works right now and you are right we can't talk about them but we like the opportunity to critically invest dollars over there before we buy shares back as long as it meets our criteria and there is a few that look like they're really good investments for our shareholders.
I will also say that that they're spread out amongst some of the various segments.
Obviously we're not looking to grow parts of our company that are underperforming but parts of the company that are doing very well.
We are.
And then also I know this is not very helpful Dan but I will also say that it is not limited to just acquisitions here in the United States we're looking at some other opportunities outside the country too.
Do you guys have other things you could add?  No we're pleased with the activities that are in the pipeline.
Yes.
Very good.
Appreciate it.
Inc.
</strong> Good morning everyone.
This is Bobby Griffin filling in for Budd.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hi Bobby.
Inc.
</strong> My first question - could you guys comment a little bit on the CVP business? I know it was up against a tough comp in quarter one but how does the outlook for that business look going forward? And did your comps get easier in the remaining part of the year? Bobby this is Karl.
The second quarter comp is forecast versus last year's actual.
We expect that sales will be about $3 million less this year than last.
Then the comps get much easier as the year progresses.
From a CVP perspective our opportunity more is bottom line than top at this point.
We have a facility that is  has not been performing well.
It is starting to slightly improve.
But we need to see continued improvement in that particular facility.
Inc.
</strong> Perfect.
And then maybe additional question on the commercial fixtures unit.
It is going up against another tough headwind in Q2 but in Q3 and Q4 could we start to see something maybe get a little more normalized there and maybe even see some organic growth there in that segment? Bobby if you take the forecast out of 2Q then I would say the back half is going to be about flat with last year.
Remembering that there is not much volume.
It is really a third quarter business.
There is not a lot of volume that shipped in the fourth quarter.
So the third quarter for that business is always the big quarter.
And right now that forecast would look like it is about on par with third quarter last year.
Inc.
</strong>  All right.
That answers my questions.
Best of luck going forward.
I appreciate it.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Good morning Leggett team and I think an admirable job in a tough environment.
Thanks John.
Thanks John.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Automotive could we get a sense from you and I know there is some considerable lead times in terms of the future of what if we assume flat vehicle production around the world what your revenue gain would be in terms of content mix price or whatever is going on there? Thats a good question.
Its sort of like what momentum do you have if everything stopped right and its a significant number I dont know how to quantify it.
Yes I would ballpark it at about 10%.
So put it in the terms that you ask if the market grow for we should grow 14 ballpark.
It changes over time but we feel pretty comfortable that we will exceed the market growth somewhat significantly.
Hey John.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And that's I assume that's a calendar 2014 comment I assume Karl.
And is there any look into 2015 or 2016? No my comment was looking into 2015 2016.
Those programs run out you know thats there is an expectation that macro market will grow in that 3% to 4% range.
So my 10% delta certainly is alive and well for 2014 should be in good shape for 2015 2016.
We start to lose some visibility but we certainly continue to gain content.
John you have heard us say before that there were a couple of positive factors that give us some gearing there.
One is just overall content; the average Leggett content of an automotive or light truck interior is going up and then secondly some of that functionality or comfort and functionality is being built into a standard specification in more vehicles.
So we get a double positive there.
The other thing I would mention is that  and we are all or most of us are significantly impressed with the rate of growth of the Asian automotive build and the percentage of market share that we enjoy.
As Karl mentioned the team has done an outstanding job of gaining new awards all over the world but in Asia its almost staggering its so good.
So anyway I hope I didn't jinx us but all those things bode very well and thats why I was as positive in my commentary on automotive initially in the conference call.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you.
And my follow-up is on the import duties on springs.
Can you just update us on the status of that whole situation? Thank you.
John this is Perry.
As you may or may not be aware the sun set review for the anti-dumping issue related inner springs from China Vietnam and South Africa was reaffirmed on April 11 so that sunset review actually at an accelerated pace that was reaffirmed overwhelmingly by the ITC and so that will extend for another five years.
Five years.
Great.
Thank you for that color.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.</strong> Good morning.
My question is I noticed that your equity is lower this quarter than it was in the December quarter and also a year ago.
Yet you have been profitable during the whole period.
What is the accounting on that?  Herbert basically reflecting share repurchase activity and the impairment that we incurred at the end of last year $65 million-ish but those are the two big aspects.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
On the adjustable foundations you saw a slight uptick much better than what you were seeing in the previous year.
Is that some of the positive impacts from the recent initiatives you took? I know you mentioned that would be more back-half loaded but have you started to see it here in 1Q?  Josh very little of it.
Really what we saw in 1Q was strength by our  of our historic business.
Those two new large programs are just starting to shift now.
They won't be fully floored until just prior to Memorial Day.
So it is just a recovery of our historic customers.
Okay thanks.
Very very enthused about that business that the products were as you saw it the Las Vegas furniture market extremely well received.
And so from an historic basis new programs new products and then just the demographic trends that we're very very bullish on adjustables going forward and thats part of the optimism in our guidance.
Okay great.
And on the office furniture piece recently the office furniture Company has reported some pretty positive numbers.
What is your sense for 2Q that you're getting from your office furniture customers right now? Do you think trends appear to be accelerating maybe beyond BIFMA low single-digit forecast for the year? As you know Josh that the current BIFMA forecast is for shipments of just a little bit more than 3%.
I would expect our business would exceed that as it did in the first quarter so we are bullish on that industry; BIFMAs forecast was much higher than ratcheted down probably adjusted for weather.
I would expect that their forecast at least for 2014 would increase with the next print.
And as you know they're in print at double digits in 2015.
So well see but we are very bullish on the office industry but more importantly our position within that industry.
And the new programs that you mentioned could you dig into any detail about what those entail? They are customer specific so we don't generally go there.
A lot of it is product development based new programs that will be launched at NEO-CON.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are.
But I can't tell you about specific programs.
And then a last one for me on the slide deck with the guidance I notice you took back the contribution margin back to 30% versus 25% that you had in your last quarter slide deck.
And I thought that lower contribution margin last quarter was to account for pricing.
Has the dynamic changed at all? What accounts for taking that contribution margin back up to 30%? Josh I think it has more to do with where we see our sales coming from.
We have as we saw in the first quarter we have a good mix of revenues going on with where the growth is the strongest.
And where we've got some softness contribution margins across our businesses as you know vary some of them are higher than others so I think that is a bigger issue than really in price and as you know this is our best kind of guess at this point in year as how earnings and where the contributions are going to come from.
Okay.
And with respect to guidance do you still anticipate that the midpoint the same growth rates per segment that you discussed in the  on the last conference call? Let me go through that with you just real quick josh because no we would have had a little bit of a shift in that I think in residential at the mid-point of our guidance we would be looking at revenue growth somewhere in the 4% to 5% range.
Commercial we would now expect to be negative down somewhere in the mid-single digit range maybe 6% 7% negative.
Industrial up somewhere in the 6% to 7% with about half of that coming from acquisitions.
And specialized up mid teens on the strength that we have been talking about in automotive.
And that basically if you roll all that together would get you back to around a 5% to 5.5% revenue growth at the mid-point of our guidance.
That's really very helpful.
Thank you very much and good luck.
We appreciate your participation and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Dave DeSonier.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's second quarter conference call.
Im Dave DeSonier the Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations and with me today are the following; Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Staff VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows; Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for the remainder of 2014; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning and thank you all for participating in our call.
Were very pleased with second performance in the majority of our operations and are seeing improved sales momentum in nearly all of our key businesses.
Same-location sales grew 4% during the quarter with strength in all of our residential markets Office Furniture Components and Automotive partially offset by lower volume in Store Fixtures and Commercial Vehicle Products.
Excluding the weak performance in Store Fixtures and CVP growth during the second quarter was strong with sales up 10%.
From a reported GAAP earnings perspective as announced on July 14 we recognized a $108 million or $0.65 per share non-cash charge for the complete write-off of the goodwill associated with the Store Fixtures Group.
Excluding this charge second quarter earnings per share were $0.48 a 9% increase versus continuing operations earnings per share of $0.44 in the second quarter last year.
This increase is primarily due to sales growth reduced share count and a lower adjusted tax rate.
Second quarter adjusted EBIT improved slightly versus second quarter last year with the benefit from broad-based sales growth largely offset by weak performance in Store Fixtures and the non-recurrence of prior-year gains from asset sales.
Adjusted EBIT margin for the quarter was 10.1%.
As we announced last week we have engaged an investment banker to help explore strategic alternatives for the Store Fixtures business including the possible divestiture of that unit.
In a very positive long-term development on July 1 we jointly announced with Tempur Sealy the purchase of their three U.S.
innerspring component production facilities.
In conjunction with this purchase we also expanded and extended our supply relationship and became the exclusive long-term provider in the U.S.
and Canada of wire-based innersprings for Tempur Sealy and boxsprings for Sealy.
We are very pleased to have completed this transaction and we look forward to the expanded long-term strategic partnership.
The additional production should enhance economies of scale benefit from our vertical integration in steel rod and wire and allow manufacturing optimization across a broad asset base.
We expect this agreement to add approximately 2% to sales and be neutral to EPS over the first year as we execute our integration plan.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long-term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
So far for the three-year period that will end on December 31 2014 weve generated TSR of 20% per year on average which places us just below the midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 over that same time frame.
Ill now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Matt? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Well as expected operating cash flow returned to strong positive territory in the second quarter and grew to $103 million up 4% versus the same quarter last year.
We ended the quarter with working capital at 12.5% of annualized sales consistent with the second quarter of 2013 and notably better than our 15% target.
Based upon our current annual forecast and our normal seasonality we expect to again generate operating cash of over $350 million for the full year.
Dividends should require about $170 million of cash in 2014 and capital expenditures approximately $100 million.
Our depreciation and amortization expense should total about $120 million.
We continue to make investments to support growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong and for efficiency improvement and maintenance.
As volumes improve we expect capital expenditure levels to increase but longer-term they will likely remain at or below total depreciation and amortization.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that were efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exists.
Returns should continue to improve as we expand EBIT margins while controlling invested capital.
In May we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share.
As such 2014 marks our 43rd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterdays closing price of $32.87 the current yield is 3.7% which is the fourth highest among the 54 companies that comprise the S&amp;P 500s Dividend Aristocrats.
We repurchased 2.3 million shares of our stock in the second quarter at an average price of $33.33 and issued 700 000 shares.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established however we currently expect to buy back between 5 million and 7 million shares in 2014 and issue approximately 2 million shares through employee benefit plans.
Our financial base remains strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
With the reduction in shareholders equity from the non-cash impairment charge along with increased uses of cash during the quarter for the acquisition of the three Sealy innerspring plans that Dave mentioned earlier and for share repurchase purposes we ended June with net debt to net capital at 35.6%.
Given the normal seasonality of our business and our anticipated strong cash generation we fully expect to end the year with net debt levels back near the low-end of our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We expect full-year sales growth to continue to accelerate.
Based upon our current forecast we are narrowing our guidance to $3.88 billion to $3.98 billion in sales for the full year versus guidance of $3.85 billion to $4.05 billion which would be up 4% to 6% versus 2013.
This revised guidance reflects softer-than-previously anticipated demand in Store Fixtures and CVP but continued strength in most of our other major markets.
Sales guidance also includes approximately $40 million of growth expected in the back half of the year from the acquisition of the three Sealy plants which closed on June 30.
With anticipated ongoing strength in many of our key markets and an expectation for EBIT margins to continue improving we made no change to our earnings per share guidance despite narrowing the sales range.
We continue to expect 2014 adjusted earnings per share of $1.70 to $1.85 which would represent another year of record adjusted earnings from continuing operations.
This compares to adjusted continuing operations EPS of $1.54 last year.
Ill now turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Matt and good morning.
As Dave mentioned most of our businesses performed extremely well in the second quarter.
In the Residential Furnishings segment same-location sales increased 9% with each of the major businesses growing during the quarter.
In U.S.
spring component dollar sales increased 4%.
Innerspring unit volume was down 3% however growth in the Comfort Core premium innerspring category continued with those higher-priced and higher-margin units up 48% during the quarter.
Boxspring unit volume was essentially flat.
Sales grew 8% in International spring primarily from market share gains and increased Comfort Core sales in Europe.
In Furniture Components sales increased 7% in the second quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 4% and motion hardware unit volume was up 14%.
Adjustable bed units grew 35% in the quarter.
New adjustable bed programs have begun to ramp up and should continue to drive significant volume growth in the back half of the year.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin for the quarter increased versus second quarter of 2013 primarily from higher sales and favorable product mix partially offset by the non-reoccurrence of last years gain from a building sale.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales decreased 24% in the second quarter.
Store Fixture sales declined significantly due to the non-recurrence of major retailer programs from second quarter 2013 and unanticipated weak overall market demand.
Volume in Office Furniture Components grew 8% during the quarter largely from new programs that we have been awarded and gradually improving market demand.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin adjusted to exclude the goodwill impairment charge decreased versus the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower sales.
In the Industrial Materials segment second quarter same-location sales decreased 4% primarily from lower unit volume in wire and industrial tube.
EBIT and EBIT margin for the segment decreased during the quarter.
Metal margins in rod and wire continue to be under pressure as market conditions did not allow us to fully recover higher costs.
EBIT was also impacted by lower unit volume in wire and industrial tubing and the non-reoccurrence of a prior year gain from equipment sales.
A dumping case brought earlier this year by major U.S.
steel rod producers has begun to have a stabilizing effect on the domestic rod market.
Our Aerospace business which resides in this segment continues to perform very well domestically and earnings should further benefit as we fully integrate our European acquisitions.
In the Specialized Products segment same-location sales grew 10% in the second quarter.
Automotive sales increased 21% from a combination of expanded content participation in new vehicle platforms and demand strength in each of the major geographic markets.
Same-location sales also increased 3% in machinery.
These combined improvements were partially offset by a 22% sales decrease in Commercial Vehicle Products versus a strong prior-year comparison in that business.
The segments EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter primarily from the higher sales.
With those comments Ill turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Karl.
As we look ahead at the balance of 2014 and beyond we continue to be very encouraged by the opportunities we are seeing in many of our markets.
Enhancing our portfolio of businesses by identifying opportunities to grow competitively advantaged positions while reducing our exposure to businesses that dont provide long-term strategic value remains a top priority.
We believe these actions are keys to our long-term success and consistent achievement of our top third TSR goal.
And with those comments Ill turn the call back to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer any questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate as we usually do we request that you ask only one question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions youre welcome to re-enter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
Kevin we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions here.
Dave you mentioned some broad-based growth which you havent seen in some time but when you back out the $40 million from the Sealy spring business the revenue guidance seems a little less optimistic than those comments would suggest can you help reconcile those two things it is mainly just the Fixtures and CVP business thats causing the variance there? Thats correct Josh.
Even if you back out the imputed $40 million in the back half were seeing growth that we havent seen in a long time and its extraordinarily encouraging.
All the rest of the business units within Leggett are experiencing strong upward bias in demand except for those two that we mentioned.
Great thank you.
And then maybe Susan this is for you I know you updated us on your guidance by segment at the midpoint if guidance is changed the segment guidance changed since we last spoke? Yes Josh.
From the midpoint I think your question is sales growth related but at the midpoint of our guidance which is 5% sales growth.
For Residential that would be somewhere in that 8% to 9% growth range and that includes 3% growth from the acquisition.
Commercial would be down in the mid-to-high teens again on weakness in Store Fixtures.
Industrial would be up around 3% with that basically being the growth were getting from the acquisitions that were completed last year in Aerospace.
And Specialized up in the 10% to 11% range.
And if you aggregate all that that should get to about 5% midpoint growth.
You can decide if you want to be high or low in our 4% to 6% range but thats the midpoint.
Great thats helpful.
And then if I can just sneak one more and I think maybe for Karl you had some nice growth in adjustable foundations and I know you had some nice program wins helping that business how much of that growth was selling given the new wins and looking past that how do you see growth in the business over the next quarter or so? Good morning Josh.
You are right there are two major customer wins.
That growth was phased in as the quarter progressed trying to be fully in place by Memorial Day.
So you should see a greater rate of growth going forward than even the 35% that we experienced in the second quarter.
I will also say that our legacy businesses those customers they continue to grow as well too.
So its a combination of the strength of the historic customer base and these new big customer wins.
Our adjustable bed people have really done a good job of executing on these programs.
Great thanks.
Ill hop back in the queue and I know Ill see at least some of you on Monday.
Thanks.
We look forward to Josh.
Good morning and nice to see the volume gains here.
I was wondering after that comment if we can jump right into CVP and Store Fixtures Im curious on a couple of things.
One where are they valued on the balance sheet? And then can you give us some frame of reference for current run rate of sales for each business and EBITDA? Ill take the latter part of that John.
Not sure that were going to give you the valuation from a balance sheet perspective but Ill give you the trends and the best way to think about those two businesses is our current expectation for Store Fixtures is that the sales for full-year 2014 will be about $80 million less than they were in 13 which gives us a run rate of say $185 million.
CVP it looks like full-year sales will be off about $13 million for a run rate of about $113 million.
Going forward from a model perspective assume that - backup.
Second quarter F&amp;D was off $34 million CVP was off $9 million.
Third quarter our current forecast show Store Fixtures off another $19 million and CVP off another $1 million.
So CVP is now anniversarying that real strength that we experienced in the first half of last year that youll recall.
Store Fixtures is a bit of a challenge for us from the standpoint that we were pretty optimistic when we were on this call in April in that most of the Store Fixtures volume as you know is shipped in the third quarter and those are based on orders that are taken as the second quarter progresses.
Those orders didnt take place so thats caused this weakness.
So its been a step function change in demand expectations since our April call.
I want to make it clear though we do not believe were losing market share that many of the brick and mortar retailers are continuing to struggle with their investments in brick and mortar versus their e-commerce investments.
And weakness in this business isnt a testimony to Leggett or our people.
We have outstanding people that are trying to find every opportunity as they possibly can the market is just depressed.
And John this is a relative to the first part of your question were going to respectfully decline to give out that detail at this time.
Okay.
Any comment around the profitability of those businesses and then as a follow-up curious or would love more color on Residential Furniture in particular Motion being up so strong.
But it looks like your overall Components were up 7% as well any wins there or do you think thats in line with market or any color there? Thank you.
John your questions are longer than my answers.
And thats a challenge.
The first part of F&amp;D and CVP profitability Store Fixtures was not profitable in the second quarter its expected to be profitable in the third quarter and as you know the fourth quarter is always a challenge.
So our current forecast would show that we will lose money in the fourth quarter as we always do.
CVP was profitable in the second quarter should be marginally profitable in the third.
And the outlook there is better.
We think we found bottom in that business.
Weve done a lot of tactical activities to improve the margins at this lower demand level.
So were optimistic on CVP going forward.
As it relates to the Residential businesses boy Dave said it there is good demand across all the businesses the trends are positive from a bedding units perspective youll remember Perry Davis mentioned on the April call that the April trend was soft.
It was.
Units were off about 13% remember we had one less shipping day in April this year because of the Easter holiday move.
May units were down this is innerspring units were down about 2% but June up 4%.
The Comfort Core trend those units were up 62% in June.
So we feel like that there is a lot of momentum in those businesses.
The Furniture Hardware business for their units to be up 14% I dont believe the furniture industry in this country is up as strong us our sales results show were gaining share and the motion market is very very strong.
So the fact that were heavy weighted to motion lesser weighted to stationery stationery is important but not as important as motion is a good thing.
Carpet underlay there has been real strength in recovery and top line and bottom line of carpet underlay.
Those businesses Geo Components we saw strength significantly improving margins there.
Things are good in the residential markets and we expect them to continue.
Great.
Thanks for that color.
I think your answer is longer than my question by the way.
Good morning David David Susan and Karl and Matt thank you for taking my questions and most of my questions have now been addressed.
I guess the one that Im confused about is the adjusted tax rate change in guidance.
If I remember right I think last call the tax rate guidance for the balance of the year was around 29% or 29.5% if I remember right and now it seems to be that full-year tax rate on an adjusted basis is 27% so can you tell us whats happened there and why? Yeah.
This is Matt.
Good question.
There is not a lot of magic dust there it really reflects where the earnings are coming from now as the year continues to progress.
For example as you hear and read about automotive doing particularly well thats our most global footprint.
In general earnings generated outside of the United States tend to be at a bit lower tax effective tax rate than they do here domestically.
So thats just one example.
But the grand scheme of it is that the mix and match of the earnings and where they are coming from is now driving our best estimate for tax rate for the full year to be a tad lower than the 29% we talked about 90 days ago and 27% is our best estimate as we sit here today.
I see.
And for the out years Matt what should we use on that? Budd another good question.
Typically weve used about 30% as our working assumption to begin most of these recent years.
I would say there is a bias slightly down from that as we see the lay of the land today but it would be something around 29% to 30% if we had to tee up our best guess right now for 2015 but well sure refine that as we get closer to the end of this year and looking with better clarity into 2015.
Okay.
So Im using 29.5% and that sounds like its a reasonable number on that? And my last question goes to the Store Fixtures group you have engaged an outside banker to look at that what is the time frame on that when does -- I dont know how I call patience but when do you think that gets done? Budd its going to be dependent upon the overall interest that we stir up in that particular business.
I believe that its likely to take six to nine months if I had to venture a guess.
Well go through this year David before we know --.
You have - now the Board has not made a resolution to declare that as disc-ops right so thats going to continue to be reported in operating results? Whats going to happen Budd is Im going to encourage the Board to resolve the approval of divestiture of that business.
And once that happens then of course the accounting classification will change.
That is likely to happen at our upcoming Board meeting here in a couple of weeks.
Once that resolution is made assuming that it is then we do have a Gantt chart of activity and I think Im being fairly conservative when I give you that time frame.
Okay but that time frame then we have to - well have to reclassify that for our modeling purposes? Yeah.
Thats right Budd.
Okay thank you David.
Good luck on the balance of this quarter and the rest of the year.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
Lot of ground has been covered.
Maybe expand a little on the transaction with Tempur Sealy what factors do you think pushed them over the edge and decide to exit innerspring and are there other opportunities significant number of other opportunities for other bedding furniture companies that might want to outsource components to you? Dan this is Karl.
The conversations with Tempur Sealy have been or lets call it Sealy have been - its been a long process.
We first started talking to their management teams in 1960.
So many of these relationships in these conversations take place over a number of years and outcomes develop as circumstances change.
I dont want to speak for Tempur Sealy.
On their conference call yesterday they talked about the rate of speed of innovation and certainly I think that they respect how innovative our people are and the capability of our machinery.
So I would think that the triggering mechanism was simply that.
The bedding industry demands rapid-fire product innovation and frankly our people are very very good at that augmented by some very capable machinery as I said.
As regards to other opportunities were always talking to people we are in conversations today on some small what we call the verticalizations in Europe they are small well see.
Its a small world.
We have the same capability outside this country as we do in this country.
So were hopeful but certainly nothing is imminent nothing to announce.
Okay very helpful.
And maybe just lastly expand a little bit on or updated us on pressure in the wire rod pricing you said it was starting to ease a bit given the legislative changes maybe just update us on what youre seeing in that market? Wed be happy to.
Dan on a year-on-year basis the rod price dropped very slightly about 40 basis points while scrap costs increased somewhat slightly but meaningful but at 240 basis points.
At the same time weve experienced increased cost as it relates to energy and transportation logistics costs.
So unlike in a historical situation if we had a move in raw material were darn good at passing through selling price cost changes.
It was difficult this time because of the influx of significant amounts of dumped rod from China both high and low carbon and you remember on the April we talked about the impact that that had starting say last September or October so its compressed those margins.
There was an anti-dumping countervailing duty filing in January of this year.
Thats going through the process.
There was a significant amount of material that was on order.
We believe that that is -- all hit this country late May.
So those inventory stockpiles are being worked through but were no longer -- the industry is no longer under the threat of those dumped materials.
So we feel like that well start to see some recovery in the back half and that margin squeeze will be mitigated.
And Ill squeeze one more in.
Cash flow improved but receivables and DSO still up a little bit.
Just talk about what are the main levers that gave you confidence in the ability to still hit or exceed the $350 million for the full year? Yeah Dan this is Matt.
We certainly feel very good about that.
Our DSO metric for example in the second quarter came down to 52 but we certainly see that.
As seasonality and collection activity unfolds that will see some improvement between now and the end of the year.
Our inventories continue to trend down over the last two quarters.
Were now at 69 days but that also has some potential to ratchet downward.
And our payables continues its ascension on purpose and smartly and so you start at least those for APs the working capital equation together and we feel really good about where we think in 2014 well end the year in terms of working capital investment in the company.
Certainly all of our modeling for the back half of the year is giving us lots of comfort that $350 million plus will be what our operating cash flow well generate and a big piece of that is what happens in working capital.
And as a reminder last year we ended the year at $417 million and we were very similar in the run rate as to where we sit today in that regard a tad behind that but again for good reason because some of the growth opportunities happening in the company right now that were not prevailing a year ago.
Very good.
Thank you again.
the sales would have been just phenomenal without the two underperforming units.
And we know where you were headed with those.
But my question more in terms of how the management team and the management team and the Board think about it? Are you starting to change how you look at your portfolio of businesses such that maybe avoiding some of these businesses that we know for example Fixtures has struggled for some time about taking strategic actions before you get into a situation like it is now maybe businesses that are doing well but dont have the growth profile margin profile of others.
I guess my question is is there more of an aggressive portfolio approach that would be applied after these two businesses are addressed? Yeah.
Keith this is Dave.
Relatively speaking the short answer would be yes.
I believe and I know the rest of the team believes that we are being significantly more diligent upfront before we invest capital in new business units that we add to the portfolio.
Also we are being -- weve been way too patient way too long with some underperforming businesses and not that were calloused; its just that we recognize the value to the shareholder base by improving the overall efficiency of the portfolio.
So bad on us for being too patient in the past for some businesses but I do believe that were significantly more diligent in identifying these strategic value of existing businesses as well as prospective businesses.
One quick follow-up.
On the adjustable bed number of 35% I think I heard you correctly you believe that growth is going to accelerate in the near term is that due to just more placements or just the products not fully in the retail channel where is that coming from? Yeah Keith this is Karl.
Its really the latter.
The floors werent fully placed through all of the second quarter so we are in place as the third quarter starts going into the very important Labor Day holiday so thats really what our thinking was.
Those numbers are probably -- we dont have adjustable bed growth numbers on this calendar year basis but this appears to be well above the industry.
Do you think the industry though is still seeing adjustable attach rates go up and dependent of your share gain here? Yes.
All right thank you.
Crespi Hardt</strong> Good morning.
Other than on capital gains side are there any tax savings from this recent write-off? Herb this is Matt.
Not significant.
Crespi Hardt</strong> The second question is on the Aerospace you made I believe four acquisitions now any more on the offing? Herb we are looking at some other small businesses that could be complementary.
I think you know that the component and sub-assembly businesses are relatively fragmented around the world but yeah there are some others that were taking a look at.
Crespi Hardt</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
A question on comfort cores theres some nice growth there and I think Karl mentioned in June up 62% on top of some already robust growth were there any new program wins there is this growth primarily coming just from sell-through? Josh primarily from sell-through.
The industry is moving towards that comfort core category.
Theres certainly some small gains but it really is the industry growing to a consumer preference.
The growth of hybrids certainly have accelerated and augmented that.
And I know that growth in comfort core its been robust in the U.S.
for some time it seems like you are also starting to see a pickup now in comfort cores in Europe how far behind is Europe versus the U.S.
in terms of this growing trend towards either hybrids or the use of more comfort cores? Actually its -- the reverse is true.
There is significantly larger percentage of total sales of comfort core pocketed coil type products in Europe than there are in the United States.
So its really the growth in Europe it has been market share wins and an improving economy and a healthier comfort core mix but the comfort core product has always been significantly more popular in Europe.
The U.S.
is kind of late to the party.
Thats why we expect again augmented by the hybrid product that we expect comfort core growth will continue to be significant.
To put it in numbers at the end of the second quarter comfort core was about 17% of our total unit sales in the United States.
I dont off of the top of the head know what that number is in Europe but its probably two times that so we would expect continued growth in the U.S.
Hey Josh this is Dave.
One other thought I know weve mention it to you and some of the other colleagues but Leggett enjoys a very nice advantage because of our ownership of [Speidel] [ph] and Speidel I believe is the undisputed leader in producing equipment that then subsequently wraps those coils at the speeds and with the quality consistency that all of our customers need.
Thats been very helpful in Leggetts participation of this overall movement towards pocketed coils.
Thank you for that extra color just last on -- another question on the guidance just looking at the slide deck page 11 there is a category called Other last quarter I think it was called higher tax rate and Other there was about $0.06 variance between what you had this quarter $0.02 in that category and a loss of $0.04 in the last quarter guidance whats the variance there is it mainly just the tax rate? The tax rate is coming down.
We last time said 29% as an average for the year.
Now closer to 27% and otherwise Josh this is just kind of the catchall bucket go from last year to what the midpoint of the guidance is obviously at this point.
Its our best guess of whats going to happen.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for that.
And good luck.
Well just say thank you and well talk to you again next quarter.
Bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's Third Quarter Conference Call.
With me this morning are the following: Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Vice President of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; Matt Flanagan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for the remainder of the year.
And finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
Jack Crusa who is Senior Vice President of the company and President of the Specialized Products segment is also joining us this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
For the last 2 quarters we've seen strong broad-based sales growth across the bulk of the company.
Sales growth within our continuing operations has improved as the year has progressed from 2% in the first quarter to 9% in the second quarter to 14% in the third quarter.
Importantly nearly all of our key businesses are seeing positive sales momentum.
Same-location sales from continuing operations grew 9% during the third quarter with strength in all of our residential businesses automotive and machinery partially offset by lower volume in Commercial Vehicle Products.
On August 5 the Board of Directors authorized management to proceed with activities necessary to divest the Store Fixtures business or portions of that business.
All of the criteria for discontinued operations have been met and we are now classifying that business as a discontinued operation.
Third quarter adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $0.51 up 31% versus the adjusted $0.39 we earned in the prior year.
This increase is primarily due to sales growth a lower adjusted tax rate and reduced share count.
From a reported GAAP earnings perspective as announced on August 19 we recognized a $39.8 million pretax or $0.17 per share accrual for the settlement of the U.S.
direct purchaser class portion of the polyurethane foam antitrust claims filed against the company and numerous other defendants.
This charge reduced third quarter earnings from continuing operations by $0.14 per share and earnings from discontinued operations by $0.03 per share.
In the third quarter last year earnings benefited from an acquisition-related bargain purchase gain of $0.06 per share.
Third quarter adjusted EBIT increased and adjusted EBIT margin improved to 10.7% reflecting the strong sales growth.
A major component of our strategy since 2007 has been the optimization of our portfolio of businesses.
This year we are making meaningful incremental investments in our already strong businesses.
Examples of this include the acquisition of the 3 Sealy spring plants that we announced on July 1 investments in machinery to support the very significant growth we're seeing in Comfort Core innersprings planned expansions in China to support rapid growth for our automotive business and a small acquisition in the third quarter of a German-based designer of motion furniture hardware where we also remain committed to improving or exiting businesses that consistently underperform our margin and return expectations.
As we announced in July we have engaged an investment banker to help with the possible divestiture of the Store Fixtures business and are currently reviewing proposals from prospective buyers.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling 3-year basis and our target is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
So far for the 3-year period that will end on December 31 of 2014 we have generated TSR of 22% per year on average which places us above the midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 but shy of our top third goal.
I'll now turn the call over to Karl Glassman who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
As Dave mentioned most of our businesses performed extremely well in the third quarter.
In the Residential Furnishings segment third quarter total sales increased 19%.
Same-location sales increased 11% with each of the major business units growing.
Excluding acquisitions U.S.
Spring component dollar sales increased 12%.
Innerspring unit volume grew 9% with the Comfort Core premium category up 85% during the quarter.
Boxspring unit volume increased 2%.
Sales grew 10% in International Spring primarily from market share gains and increased Comfort Core sales in Europe.
Furniture components sales increased 7% in the third quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 9% and motion hardware unit volume increased 6%.
Adjustable Bed units grew 76% in the quarter from a combination of new programs that were fully ramped up by the end of the quarter and strength in our historic customer programs.
Sales also increased meaningfully in fabric converting geo components and carpet underlay.
Third quarter segment EBIT was negatively impacted by $32 million of the foam litigation settlement.
Excluding this charge adjusted EBIT and EBIT margin increased versus third quarter of 2013 primarily from higher sales and a $2 million insurance gain related to a facility that was impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales increased 2% in the third quarter.
With the move of Store Fixtures into discontinued operations the segment is now comprised entirely of our work furniture business which was formerly named Office Furniture Components.
Sales grew in the quarter although at a slower rate than it was experienced in the first half of the year largely from timing of programs and normal industry demand variation.
EBIT was essentially flat and EBIT margin decreased slightly.
Segment EBIT margin continues to be below our target level due to a number of factors including underutilized capacity and operational challenges with a Chinese joint venture.
With industry demands still depressed from lower business spending and last year's added contraction in government spending our plants continue to operate well below of optimal utilization levels.
While our cost reductions have been implemented over the past few years we are working to identify more opportunities to improve efficiency.
In addition our business development activities are focused on identifying opportunities to improve our sales mix through higher-valued products.
In the Industrial Materials segment third quarter same-location sales increased 7% primarily from higher unit volume from our rod mill and wire operations.
EBIT increase and EBIT margin was essentially flat with the prior year.
The dumping case brought in early 2014 by major U.S.
steel rod producers has continued to advance through the process and final determination is set for late fourth quarter or early first quarter.
Our aerospace business which resided in the Industrial Materials segment continues to perform very well domestically and earnings should further benefit as we fully integrate our European acquisitions.
In the Specialized Products segment same-location sales grew 13% in the third quarter.
Automotive sales increased 19% from a combination of expanded content participation in new vehicle platforms and demand strength in each of the major geographic markets.
Same-location sales increased 13% in machinery.
These combined improvements were partially offset by a 9% sales decrease in Commercial Vehicle Products.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter primarily from higher sales partially offset by a $3 million litigation accrual.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Thanks Karl and good morning everyone.
Operating cash flow was once again seasonally strong in the third quarter and grew to $132 million which is up 14% versus the third quarter of last year.
We ended the quarter with working capital at an unusually low 9.7% of annualized sales.
The accrual from the foam litigation settlement caused a sizable increase in current liabilities.
Excluding this accrual working capital was 10.7% of annualized sales still very notably better than our target of 15%.
Based upon our current annual forecast and our normal seasonality we expect to again generate operating cash of over $350 million for the full year.
Dividends should require about $170 million of cash and capital expenditures should approximate $100 million.
As Dave mentioned we continue to make investments to support growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong and for efficiency improvement in maintenance.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we're efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exist.
Returns should continue to improve as we expand EBIT margins while controlling invested capital.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend by $0.01 to $0.31 per share.
As a result 2014 marks our 43rd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $35.40 the current yield is 3.5% which is one of the highest among the 54 companies that comprise the S&amp;P 500 dividend aristocrats.
We repurchased 800 000 shares of our stock in the third quarter at an average price of $34.62 and issued 1.2 million shares largely for the employee stock option exercises.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established.
However by year-end we currently expect to have bought back approximately 5 million shares in 2014 and to have issued approximately 3 million shares to employee benefit plans.
Accordingly share repurchases and issuances in the fourth quarter may be relatively modest since target levels of both activities have already nearly been attained.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital of 34.8% a modest decrease versus last quarter and comfortably within our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
Given our sales growth and strong year-to-date performance we expect to again post record full year adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations.
As we announced yesterday we are raising the low-end of our prior guidance by $0.05 and now expect adjusted full year earnings per share of $1.75 to $1.85.
This revised guidance includes operating results from discontinued operations but excludes the $0.65 per share noncash impairment charge that was recognized in the second quarter and the $0.17 per share foam litigation settlement that was accrued here in the third quarter.
Prior full year sales guidance has been adjusted to exclude Store Fixtures sales of approximately $185 million.
Sales from continuing operations are still now expected to be $3.7 billion to $3.8 billion for the year.
This represents a 6% to 9% increase versus continuing operations in 2013.
This full year guidance implies fourth quarter sales from continuing operations of $871 million to $971 million representing a range of 1% to 13% growth versus fourth quarter 2013.
We expect fourth quarter earnings per share of $0.39 to $0.49 versus an adjusted $0.35 last year.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Matt.
As we look ahead to the balance up 2014 and beyond we continue to be very encouraged by the opportunities we are seeing in many of our markets.
Enhancing our portfolio of businesses by identifying opportunities to grow competitively advantaged positions while reducing our exposure to businesses that don't provide long-term strategic value remains a top priority.
We believe these actions are keys to our long-term success and consistent achievement of our top third TSR goal.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to you Dave.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer any question.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask your one best question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions please re-enter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
David we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
The first on the sales guidance the variance is $100 million.
So pretty wide considering there's essentially 2 months left in the year.
What's behind that? What pieces of the business are maybe more volatile than others right now to cause the wide variance in the sales guidance? Josh to start with the range of the guidance as we've said before we basically develop our current quarter and full year forecast and then build a range around that as we see appropriate and hopefully we've allowed for a necessary amount of conservatism with that.
You might keep in mind that in the fourth quarter of last year we did see a little bit of acceleration so where second -- or third quarter last year grew 1.5% or so restated for continuing ops.
Fourth quarter was actually up closer to 6% so our comps get a little bit more difficult.
That speaks at least marginally to the lower part of the guidance range.
And obviously we've had nice momentum in several of our businesses.
So we feel pretty good about I think the strength that we're seeing.
Dave or Karl is there anything you want to add? The other part of Josh's question had to do with which businesses may have higher volatility and quite honestly with the businesses that we have in the portfolio now there isn't a significant difference among business units relative to volatility.
Seasonality also has been somewhat improved with the move of Store Fixtures to discontinued operations.
Karl anything to add? Yes.
The only thing that I'd add the Commercial Vehicle Products continues be an area that's difficult to forecast just because of the fleet nature of that but the residential businesses the auto is strong continues to be strong and we're optimistic.
We admit that that guidance is wide but we expect to be within that range and I would expect that we would be in the midpoint or the upper end of it.
But we'll see.
Okay great.
And then just a question on the adjustable base is -- grew nicely and I realize much of that comes from recent product wins but can you also speak to the organic demand trends out there if you're seeing any meaningful uptick in demand patterns that would lead you to believe that attachment rates are increasing? Josh again this is Karl.
I know that you participated in the conference call last night of Select Comfort.
They mentioned that their flex bed or their adjustable base program has grown significantly.
I think they're pleased with their attachment rates.
We have 100% of that business so we're the beneficiary by their focus growth.
We continue to see growth in both OEM manufacturer programs and retail programs.
So the category very much is being positioned to the consumer by a number of manufacturers and retailers as a lifestyle product.
The category grows and we expect it to continue to grow.
And the EBIT on those bases Karl is from what I understand maybe not as good as the statement core but getting better.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
Yes that as we ramp up that volume that it's been a challenge for us.
Our people deserve a tremendous credit for getting that much product out of our facilities and our distribution infrastructure.
As time passes we'll get better at that but the margins are below the company average but it is very very good business.
And I heard over -- in parts of September there were some supply issues with some of the bases.
Not sure if that was Leggett bases or not.
But did you experience anything like that in September? We're very pleased with the fact that we kept up with demand during September.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Comfort Core's numbers are just fabulous Karl and maybe put us and give us a little color on what size it is today and what's the duration of that kind of comparison and how much of it is either sell-in or sell-through and maybe put some color around that 85% unit growth.
Budd it's -- Comfort Core now is about 17% of our organic business.
So I'm not including the 3 Sealy component plants.
The Tempur Sealy I would have to tell you what their mix of Comfort Core is but it continues to grow as a category.
We expect that it will continue to grow.
It was about 11% of total sales a year or so ago but I don't know that exact point in time but it continues to expand.
And as you know dollars go with it.
We have no expectation of a slow-down.
We continue to invest significant capital dollars.
We believe that we own the most efficient Comfort Core productivity from a machinery perspective in the world and we're very proud of that.
So as that category grows we'll grow with it and our profitability will be enhanced.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that was just -- if I can -- one more area of that.
What is the implication of that then to the open core and what's the cannibalization against the other parts of the business? Yes there is some cannibalization but that's a good trade for us.
And to give better answer to the question you asked earlier if -- what's the capability of that category? Comfort Core in Europe is about 50% of total mattress cores.
We expect that it may grow to that level.
Certainly the growth of hybrid in this country in Canada in particular has helped that.
So we'll take that cannibalization all day.
And Budd this is Dave.
The application of Comfort Core in furniture cushions really is -- and that has gained some momentum and that doesn't have any cannibalization for us involved.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We didn't have marshalls units before in the seating? No we had some marshalls units in the seating but nothing like it has happened in the last few months.
Budd what's happening is there was marshalls in the deck of upholstered seating but there is a growing application of the product in the cushion itself as a replacement for foam because of the durability and resilience characteristics the lack of set that a Comfort Core provides versus foam.
So that is all growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I've seen marshalls inside units cushions for well while I was in the business so a long time but...
Not to the extent that they're in place today.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the Comfort Core.
If you took 17% weighting in the top 85% if that number is in your innerspring which I think you put at plus 9% it would imply a pretty significant negative number.
But if there's some of that going in the furniture then maybe not as negative.
Can you help me with all that Karl? No I don't have all that math but your assumptions are correct.
And John that's the reason -- one of the reasons I made my comment.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Since we have Jack on the call I'm curious on the automotive side.
Just a couple of things: number one what your visibility is I don't know 1 year 2 years 3 years out to that business.
You've had sizable numbers now for several quarters.
Maybe some kind of guide to what the spread might be in your rate of sales versus say global auto production? Yes John.
A couple of quarters ago Karl said that our growth rate would exceed the industry by about 10 points and still feel real good about that.
And from a visibility standpoint most of the orders that we book today don't start production for 18 to 24 months.
So probably outward visibility in automotive business is as good as we got anywhere in the company.
And so what we forecast out for the next 2 to 3 years there are some years that it will be up a little and some that it will be down a little from that average depending on when new programs start.
But on average we feel good about the -- at least the next 3 or 4 years of enduring 10 point above industry growth rates.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Hey Jack are there sort of pricing contracts on that volume that you know is coming? And any comment on margin as it relates to the automotive business going forward versus where it's been? There are contractual price adjustment obligations in most of those programs for at least for the first 2 or 3 years and we do build that into our estimates.
But we have -- I think we do a really good job within that business unit of using the tools Six Sigma Continuous Improvement to drive cost down.
We set targets every year and they've done a really good job of meeting those.
So the expectation is that we'll match the pricing adjustments with cost adjustments.
So relative to historical margins we don't anticipate that -- or we do anticipate that we'll be able to maintain those historical margins in automotive going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could sneak one more quick one for Karl is there any way in the adjustables to break out what are the program wins versus an organic growing number in adjustables? John yes there's a way to break that out.
We have that data and I'm not going to give it to you.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is there's been a lot of talk in the media regarding weakness in Europe and I'm curious as to what you see? Herb this is Karl.
We're very pleased.
Our European business tends to be heavy weighted to auto.
There's been significant growth in European auto year-to-date.
That continues.
Certainly continued in the third quarter.
The second largest part of Leggett's business in Europe is bedding.
Units were up 3%.
Dollars up much greater than that because we're dealing with that same Comfort Core growth.
So Europe as we speak continues to perform extremely well in both of those 2 key product categories.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other question is since you're not in the top third on the TSR what is the difference in percent in terms of what's received in the bonus pool? The TSR program if we're at midpoint of the S&amp;P 500 it pays out about 75% of the target payout.
And then if you're below the 50 percentile it decreases 2% for every 1% of ranking.
If you're above 50% it's geared more strongly to encourage that but it's a 4% gain in payout for every 1% of ranking.
Herb does that make sense? Did you follow that? Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Yes I got it.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on cash flow.
Obviously you've done a tremendous job in terms of working capital management.
You're down well below off the long-term target.
Talk about as we look out to '15 and beyond the potential to bring working capital down further as a percentage of revenue or should we expect that to maybe trend a little bit higher? And is the 15% just too conservative as we look out? Dan this is Matt.
I'll jump in first.
It's a good question.
Certainly a point of conversation we've had routinely.
It will be -- first of all we're very proud of how well the operating teams have done to drive that working capital performance to the level that you saw again reflected here in the third quarter.
And again it's all 3 big pieces of working capital that we really pay such close attention to: Receivables inventories and then on the liabilities side the payables.
As Store Fixtures moves to discontinued status the working capital profile of the company will change a bit and probably -- and will require less working capital as typically been on average use in that business unit.
So that will naturally also cause us to revisit I think that 15% target that we've had for quite some time.
And again a lot of detailed activities in each one of those asset and liability categories that are both operational in nature as well as at the corporate level things we're trying to do to assist our various business units.
Karl I guess I'd hand it to you for whatever else you would add to that focus.
No it's -- I agree with what Matt said.
It continues to be an area of significant focus.
I don't know how low that number can go.
Mix of businesses changes that pretty significantly.
Store Fixtures isn't as working capital efficient as the other businesses so it's a high area of focus.
Yes and I think that having a critical element in our overall bonus program has really assisted -- I know I'm repeating what was said earlier Matt but all of the people have given a very high priority on reining in inventories and receivables and expanding payables where practical and we'll continue to do that.
15% maybe too conservative for the product mix that we currently have.
And if so we'll adjust that down appropriately.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful and maybe just moving down to cash flow statement still targeting $100 million CapEx this year.
Just talk about I know you're not looking to give guidance yet for '15 but directionally the types of projects that you're looking out at over the next 12 months and whether that's a reasonable number for next year or you think that can move higher or lower? Yes I expect that number to be a larger number in 2015 because of the investment in our automotive programs as Jack spoke to that we're adding capacity.
So that's one big area.
The other is there's continued investment in Comfort Core and especially with the acquisition of those 3 Sealy component plants we need to invest in the capability and capacity of those machines.
The third area as we continue to invest in efficiency and quality improvements in our steel mill that facility in Sterling performs extremely well but it is one that's pretty capital-intensive.
So I don't have a number for you for 2015 but the bias is certainly up from that $100 million that we're forecasting in '14.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
And lastly just maybe talk a little bit about the acquisition pipeline.
If there's anything -- obviously you can't divulge until it's there but whether it will be more active and maybe some of the areas that you're more focused on.
Dan this is -- it's Dave.
It's about what it's been as far as activity for the last few quarters several interesting potentials that we're looking at and doing some preliminary diligence on.
I know I've mentioned somewhat cryptically earlier in a previous conference call that some of those were foreign and what I had in mind of course was that German-based acquisition we recently did.
And indeed some of the other businesses that we are looking at right now fall outside of North America.
But it hasnt gotten a lot frothier but there are several targets in there that we're looking at as we speak.
Research Division</strong> Secondly typically there's a lag I mean I'm going back too long between housing starts and your residential business.
Is that part of what you're seeing now? I mean that's somewhat of a macro question but it would seem like over time that's been the trend that housing starts start to pick up and then you start to see some increase in volume.
Is that true to form I mean? Or is there something else going on relative to the residential side? Allen this is Karl.
You are correct.
There is a lag.
The lag is shortest in our corporate underlay business.
That's why you've seen some strength there.
There are some market share gains there as well.
But our best guess of the lag is a year.
So as those housing statistics continue to gradually improve that theoretically and most probably the strength in our -- first our second quarter then third quarter this year is based on the housing numbers that we started to see improve mid-last year.
So if that theory holds that this -- the continued growth that we see and the results that have been published in the last few days should bode well for 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other is on the auto side.
Is it that you're getting more content? I'm just trying to ascertain what it is about the auto business.
Is it more content? Is it just more cars? I'm just trying to understand what it is that's driving that business at this point if you can differentiate between the 2.
Yes Allen this is Jack.
It is a combination of content and when we would really talk about content we would look at a lumbar support mechanism that might be a 2-way manual which could moved to a 2-way power which could move to a 4-way power with massage.
And we see that migration in the market to higher and higher specifications.
In addition we are growing our motor cable and actuator business very well.
And the beauty of that is that in those markets we're a fairly small player so we see a lot of runway.
So in Asia as that market grows production we will follow.
In the more mature markets it truly is an improving content and an expansion in some of those product categories like motors and cables and actuators.
One thing that's also been very helpful is the marketing efforts by the OEMs to use many of the comfort features which Leggett provides as a standard now in competing with their peer OEM.
Where a particular maybe a 4-way lumbar in the past was an upcharge it's now part of a standard package which they use to compete one against the other.
So that's been [indiscernible].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Judy Merrick on for Keith Hughes.
And I was just wondering if you -- just a follow-up on an earlier question on residential.
In the innerspring units you mentioned last quarter it was kind of uneven month to month.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you saw kind of organically in that to get to your 9% kind of aside from Comfort Core? The difference in this quarter.
Yes Judy this is Karl.
The numbers that I'm going to give you this the sequence of sales change during the third quarter by month but it will include Comfort Core okay? And I do want to make clear that all of the Comfort Core statistics that we're giving you that 85% growth is all bedding.
So the commentary on furniture is aside from that growth.
But in July units were up 9%; August up 6%; and September up 12%.
So there is the 9% in aggregate.
Probably the next natural question is what are we experiencing in October to-date? On purely organic it looks like sales will be up about 3% in units.
It will be greater than that in dollars because of the Comfort Core mix.
The reason -- the first week of October was pretty darn soft actually.
And then what we experienced to be a little bit more forthcoming is we were really surprised at the strength of our bedding sales post-Labor Day.
Usually there is a little bit of a cliff the week after Labor Day.
The follow-through post-Labor Day was really really strong.
And then there was a little step function back the first week of October.
And then where we've seen 5% growth rate those next 2 weeks.
So today yes I would expect October to come in at about 3%.
Just another question on auto.
Looking at the incremental margins there if I try to back out CVP and machinery it looks like the business already teens or better.
Where do you think that goes from here? I would just -- I don't have any reason to believe that it's going to change significantly up or down.
Most of the new programs have been won with consistent quoting philosophies.
And we do really I think we do a really good job of delivering more functionality generally at a lower cost and at a lighter weight.
And all of those things are just really darn important to the auto industry and investing in innovation to drive that.
So that requires a return on investment that I mean you would expect.
So I expect that we will continue to be consistent in the range that we've been experiencing.
And Josh not that everything that we sell through the automotive group is patented but a large percentage of it indeed is protected by intellectual property and makes it somewhat unique.
It doesn't mean it can't be substituted for but that's part of that upfront cost that Jack is implying there.
Okay.
And then Karl just a point of clarification you said in Europe 50% I think is the spring sold there Comfort and that compares to the U.S.
which is 17%.
Is that right? Yes.
Yes directionally Josh.
It's -- the macro Europe number is approximately 50%.
Just as a point of clarity.
In the U.S.
that 17% is a percentage of Leggett's total volume historically from an organic standpoint.
So you have to take the Tempur Sealy mix and the Simmons mix on top of that.
Both of those would index to a higher percentage of Comfort Core than the rest of the industry.
So I don't know what the total U.S.
market is.
It's nowhere near that 50% in Europe.
Okay great.
And then just last could you update us on the wire rod pricing where we are now and what the expectations are for margins going forward? Yes yes Josh.
On the pricing side it's been relatively flat so far this year.
What's helped us is that scrap costs have reduced -- you remember that we've spoken in the past about the spread or the margin squeeze that we started to experience in November most acute in December of last year continued to be an issue in January and February.
Most of that pricing pressure brought on by the dumping of Chinese-produced primarily low-carbon rods.
That has been mitigated to a great degree so the spreads have recovered.
So that is a year-on-year benefit that we'll experience in 4Q and first Q of next year.
Okay.
So rod prices are stable whereas before they were being depressed because of the dumping that's no longer taking place.
At the same time scrap prices are going a little bit lower so the spread is getting better.
Is that right? Yes that's correct.
To be more exact is the selling price should have inflated at the end of the fourth quarter and the early part of the first quarter this year because of scrap inflation.
And that pricing inflation did not take place because of the dumping.
But now that the scrap is normalized that spread has improved without a significant move in top line pricing.
Okay.
And is there an expectation that with the dumped rod now being cleared all that inventory gone that rod prices might actually increase.
So the spread would widen even further? Josh probably not.
It's somewhat dependent on what happens with scrap.
And with scrap pulling back slightly that there's not a real opportunity to increase selling price.
So that correlation exists.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me try to go on John's question a little bit differently Karl.
I know you won't give us the numbers on the program versus continuing business in adjustable.
But can you rank the importance perhaps between programs and the continuing business just which is more important in that top 76%? Every order is important.
The historic volume while it grew significantly did not grow at that 75% rate.
So it's heavy weighted to bifurcate the way that you asked the question it's the rolling on of the new year-on-year programs.
And those new programs were really falling in place by the 1st of July so that we won't anniversary that until July of next year and -- but I still believe because of the growth in the category on both the new programs and an expectation of continued growth in the historic programs that we'll see significant probably double-digit growth in the category after we anniversary those new programs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on a couple of other issues the Chinese joint venture gave you some operational challenges.
How are you -- how is that progressing now? It continues to be a management challenge in that that joint venture partner has too much control of that particular facility and we continue to try to work through that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And any idea of the time frame as to when that might get resolved? I would have told you last quarter next quarter.
Everything moves slowly in China.
We continue to be optimistic but I can't put a date on it.
We -- I want to tell you that it's -- we think it's soon but we've thought it's soon for way too long.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the French acquisition the acquisition of the aerospace business in France I think that had some issues that had to get resolved as well.
How are you doing on the management of that and the progress there? Budd very very well that we now have anniversary-ed the acquisition day that things are progressing.
Our quality systems are in place.
The management teams are embracing some structural changes.
We're very pleased with the progression of that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally for me CVP has been an issue.
I thought it was improving.
Increasing sales 9% brought me up a little bit.
Is -- Am I wrong in my view or is it profitable? What does it say about it? Budd this is Jack.
It is improving relatively.
Some of the -- well a majority of that sales decline represents a shift in the business model.
You may recall that we talked about Ford moving their production from Ohio to Kansas City.
For some period of time they didn't have vehicles available.
And in the Kansas City model we are not an exclusive Ford-directed upfitter with a free program that goes to the dealer.
So those dynamics caused some of the dealers to order vans without an interior and then use a local distributor perhaps.
And given that it's not exclusive we hadn't expected and budgeted for Kansas City to share the volume of the Transit Ford Transit with 2 other providers that are there in Kansas City.
So we've been driving that business to adjust to an expected 20% to 25% decrease in sales to be profitable at that level.
This year we will be profitable but it will be low single digits in that group.
And then next year we expect that to normalize and move up.
We'll just say thank you for your participation and we'll talk to you again in January.
Bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt.
Thank you Sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's fourth quarter conference call.
I am Dave DeSonier and with me this morning are the following; Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; Matt Flanagan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2015.
And finally the Group will answer any questions that you have.
Perry Davis who is Senior Vice President of the Company and President of the Residential Furnishing segment is also joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our expressed permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled Forward-Looking Statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
2014 was a record year and we're pleased to have ended on a very strong note.
Full year sales from continuing operations grew 9% from a combination of strong organic growth in many of our major businesses and acquisitions.
Fourth quarter sales grew 11% with same location sales up 6% and acquisitions adding 5%.
While demand in the majority of our markets improved in 2014 we also benefitted from the continued shift in bedding to Comfort Core springs new adjustable bed programs that ramped up during the year and ongoing content gains and new program awards and automotive.
Importantly nearly all of our businesses are seeing positive sales momentum as we begin 2015.
Full year adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.78 up 19% versus the adjusted $1.50 we earned in 2013.
Full year earnings largely benefited from higher sales.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations grew to $0.41 up from an adjusted $0.38 per share in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Earnings in the current quarter benefited from sales growth and lower LIFO expense but this was partially offset by a higher adjusted tax rate and higher than expected stock compensation expense that resulted in large part from the significant increase in Leggett share price versus the market since late October.
Matt will discuss this further in his comments.
Our adjusted EBIT and EBIT margin improved for both the fourth quarter and full year largely due to strong sales growth.
We ended the year with adjusted EBIT margin at 10.2% up 60 basis points over the full year 2013.
From a reported GAAP earnings perspective the fourth quarters in both years were impacted by large unusual items.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we recognized an additional $0.21 per share litigation accrual.
This charge reduced fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations by $0.09 per share and earnings from discontinued operations by $0.12 per share.
By far the largest portion of the accrual is for the foam antitrust cases.
We believe the accrual is sufficient to resolve all of the pending foam antitrust cases.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we recognized a $67 million or $0.31 per share non-cash charge related to the goodwill and intangible assets of our commercial vehicle products business.
A major component of our strategy since 2007 has been the optimization of our portfolio of businesses by increasing investments in businesses that posses strong competitive advantage and reducing our exposure to businesses and markets that are less attractive.
In 2014 we made good progress on both fronts.
We required three Tempur Sealy innerspring plants invested in machinery to support the significant growth of comfort core innerspring expanded our operations in China to support rapid growth of our automotive business and acquired a small German-based designer of motion furniture components.
In early November we also completed the divestiture of the majority of our store fixtures operations and continue to pursue the sale of the two remaining facilities in that business.
The divestiture resulted in a $0.03 per share loss that was recognized in discontinued operations during the fourth quarter.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one third of S&amp;P500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the three-year period that ended on December 31 2014 we generated compound annual TSR of 28% per year which placed us within the top quarter of the S&amp;P500.
Our stock price increased 38% during the year from about $31 to $43 with much of the increase occurring in the fourth quarter.
Assuming dividends are reinvested 2014 TSR was 43% which ranks in the top 7% of the S&amp;P500.
I'll now turn the call over to Karl who will provide some additional segment comments.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Most of our businesses continue to perform extremely well in the fourth quarter and we ended the year very strong.
In the Residential Furnishing segment fourth quarter total sales increased 21%.
Same-location sales increased 12% with each of the major businesses growing.
Excluding acquisitions U.S.
Spring component dollars increased 18%.
Innerspring unit volume grew 13% with the Comfort Core premium category up 59% during the quarter.
Boxspring unit volume increased 9%.
Sales grew 4% in International Spring primarily from market share gains and increased Comfort Core sales in Europe.
Excluding acquisitions furniture components sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter.
Volume in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 8% and motion hardware unit volume increased 14%.
Adjustable Bed units grew 127% in the quarter from a combination of new programs and strength in ongoing customer programs.
Sales also increased meaningfully in fabric converting geo components and carpet underlay.
Fourth quarter segment EBIT was negatively impacted by a $22 million litigation accrual.
Excluding this charge adjusted EBIT increase and EBIT margin was essentially flat with fourth quarter of 2013.
The benefit from higher sales during the quarter was partially offset by increased stock compensation expense of $10 million.
Full year total sales in the segment grew 13% with same location sales up 9%.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased 27% and adjusted EBIT margins improved 110 basis points versus 2013 ending 2014 at 9.7%.
In the Commercial Fixturing &amp; Components segment same-location sales increased 15% in the fourth quarter.
Sales grew in the quarter from improved market demand in our work furniture business.
EBIT increased slightly with the benefit from higher sales largely offset by higher stock compensation expense.
For the full year total sales in the segment grew 7%.
EBIT for the year increased 21% and EBIT margin improved.
Segment margins continues to be below our target level due to a number of factors including underutilized capacity and operational challenges with a Chinese joint venture.
With industry demands still depressed from lower business and government spending our plans continue to operate well below optimal utilization levels.
While our cost reductions have been implemented over the past few years we are working to identify more opportunities to improve efficiency.
In addition our business development activities are focused on identifying opportunities to improve our sales mix through higher-valued products.
In the Industrial Materials segment fourth quarter same-location sales increased 5% primarily from higher unit volume within our wire operations that was largely driven by strong bedding demand.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased with a benefit from higher sales and other smaller factors partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $3 million.
8 Full year total sales in the segment increased 3% primarily from acquisitions.
Same-location sales were down slightly.
EBIT and EBIT margins for the year decreased primarily from reduced metal margins and weather related costs and inefficiencies early in the year.
In the Specialized Products segment same-location sales grew 5% in the fourth quarter.
Automotive sales increased 13% versus a strong fourth quarter of 2013 from a combination of expanded content participation in new vehicle platforms and demand strength in North America and Asia.
This growth was partially offset by an 18% sales decrease in Commercial Vehicle Products.
Machinery sales were essentially flat during the quarter.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin increased versus 2013 primarily due to the non-reoccurrence of last years CVP impairment charge.
Operationally EBIT and EBIT margin increased in the second quarter -- in the current quarter with a benefit from higher sales partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $4 million.
For the full year total sales in this segment grew 9%.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased 26% and adjusted EBIT margins improved a 180 basis points versus 2013 ending 2014 at 13.6%.
I'll now turn the call back over to Matt who will discuss some of the additional financial details along with our outlook for 2015.
Thanks Karl and good morning everyone.
Well as you've already heard fourth quarter earnings were impacted by an unusually high accrual related to our stock-based incentive compensation plans which in total represented $80 million or $0.08 per share.
Approximately two-thirds of this cost was due to the significant increase in our relative TSR performance late in the year as our share price increased from approximately$35 to $43 during the fourth quarter.
The remainder of the higher cost was driven by recent strong growth in operating margin improvement in many of our businesses.
In accordance with GAAP we record our incentive compensation accruals each quarter to reflect the related performance metrics.
For the TSR-based incentive plan we measure our TSR performance over three-year periods compared to an 320 member peer group.
For the three-year measurement period that ended in 2014 our relative TSR through the end of September was at roughly the midpoint of the peer group.
As a result we had accrued for our two and three quarter year assuming an estimated payout of approximately 71% of the incentive target.
Our fourth quarter increase in share price and relative TSR moved us into the top third of the peer group and caused payout percentage to more than double.
Consequently all of the incremental cost for the entire three-year period occurred and was duly recognized in the fourth quarter.
A significant adjustment was also required for the three-year period that will conclude in 2015.
At the end of December we were delivering top TSR performance for that measurement period as well.
In 2014 our stock compensation expense for all programs totaled $48 million nearly half of which was recognized in the fourth quarter.
Our forecast for 2015 anticipates total cost of approximately $44 million at the current share price and assuming our relative TSR does not change.
If our TSR moves into a lower performance level in relation to the peer group then we will reduce our accruals for open measurement periods to reflect the corresponding lower payouts estimates.
Now on to a few other topics.
Operating cash flow was once again seasonally strong in the fourth quarter at $166 million.
For the full year we generated operating cash $382 million.
We ended the year with working capital at an usually low 7.9% of annualized sales.
The third and fourth quarter litigation accruals caused a sizeable increase in current liabilities by year end.
Excluding this accrual working capital was 10.3% of annualized sales.
In November we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share and 2014 marked our 43rd consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterdays closing price of $45.07 our current yield is 2.8% which is one of the highest dividend yields among the 54 companies that comprise the S&amp;P500's dividend aristocrats.
We repurchased 700 000 shares of our stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $41.14 and issued one million sales largely for employee option exercises.
For the year we repurchased 5.4 million shares at an average price of $33.76 and issued 3.9 million shares.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We entered the year with net debt and net capital at 31.5% which is comfortably within our longstanding targeted range of 30% to 40%.
In 2015 we again expect strong sales growth which should lead to another year of record earnings per share from continuing operations.
As we announced yesterday we expect 2015 earnings from continued operations to be between a $1.90 and $2.10 per share.
With improving demand market share gains and recent acquisitions sales from continued operations are expected to be $3.9 billion to $4.1 billion.
This range represents a 3% to 8% increase versus our $3.78 billion of sales from continued operations in 2014.
Based upon this guidance range we currently expect a full year EBIT margin between 10.7% and 11.2%.
We expect to again generate operating cash flow of approximately $350 million in 2015.
Dividend should require about $170 million of cash and capital expenditure should approximate $120 million per year.
We continue to make investments to support growth in business and product lines where sales are strong and for efficiency improvement and maintenance.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we're efficiently utilizing our asset base and invest in capital dollars for the highest return potential exist.
Consistent with our stated priorities for the use of excess cash flow we will prudently buy back our stock bearing in mind our level of cash generation other potential opportunities to strategically grow the company and the overall outlook for the general economy.
We have a standing authorization from the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year; however no specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established.
We currently expect to issue between two million and three million shares in 2015 primarily from employee stock option exercises and repurchase an amount that at least offsets shares issued.
With those comments I'll turn it back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Matt.
I would like to close my prepared comments this morning by extending a very sincere thank you to the thousands of dedicated employee partners who have collectively contributed to Leggett's record performance in 2014 and have helped us to position the company for strong performance in 2015 and beyond.
I would also like to sincerely thank our many customers for trusting us with their business and allowing us to assist them as they work to achieve their respective long-term goals.
Dave Ill turn the call back to you.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We appreciate your attention and we will be glad to answer any questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask only your one best question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to reenter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
Christine we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everybody.
This is actually Bobby filling in for Budd.
Thank you for taking my questions and congrats on the strong revenue quarter.
Thanks Bobby.
First off on the innerspring units up 13% can you please give us a sense of how that trended during the quarter and maybe what you see so far in that segment or that business unit year to date? Bobby this is Perry Davis.
Yes.
I can give you some color around that and during the quarter in October we were up roughly 7%.
November similarly about 7% and then in December we saw a really strong surge with Innerspring shipments up about 24%.
Thank you.
And then is there a little color on how January has trended so far? Yes.
So far in January through basically the end of last week for the period we are up year on year about 16.6%.
Now would caution for some of that because you recall in 2014 we faced some underlying weather issues that probably dampened shipment somewhat but overall still we're seeing strong unit volumes as we progress through the quarter.
Perfect.
Appreciate the color.
And lastly on the Chinese joint venture in the commercial segment gave you some operational challenges again.
Can you talk about how that has progressed versus last quarter and what the outlook looks like for working through those challenges? Bobby this is Karl.
It continues to be a challenge for us.
We were in a complicated Chinese legal situation with that joint venture partner that's distasteful to all of us.
So we're continuing to make progress.
The margins are not quite as bad as they once were but the business is losing money as we speak.
So we're doing everything we can within our power in a tough environment to remediate those issues.
Thank you.
And best of luck going forward.
Thank you Bobby.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research LLC.
Please proceed with your question.
All right.
Good morning everyone thanks for taking my questions.
Could you provide us an update on what scrap costs are doing and where pricing is and the spread between those two right now? Good.
Josh this is Karl.
Scrap is a little bit of a challenge for us and our outlook has changed pretty dramatically in the last 30 days.
The scrap traded up about $5 from December to early January and now the expectation for February scrap prices is down about $30 a ton which ballpark is 10%.
What's driving that forecast of scrap deflation is significant availability of U.S.
scrap.
Iron ore costs they are falling pretty dramatically around the world and then currency exchange rates.
The impact of that is probably more will be more significant on the flat products because of availability of both Russian and Chinese flat steel products against scrap is driving that currency exchange issues also into the flat steel products.
From a wire rod perspective there is less availability of high carbon rod around the world that is of quality enough to utilize in our products or our customers or competitors products.
The low carbon is somewhat protected now because of commerce filing or finding of guilt of antidumping claims by the U.S.
wire rod producers specifically the low carbon.
They've levied duties effective mid-December of between 100% and 200% depending on the importer of those products but rod will probably deflate some because of the correlation to scrap.
Now the impact on Leggett is there may be depending on how scrap actually does trade some pricing pressure on some of our products there'll probably be a lag of certain 30 to 60 no really 60 to 90 days which will pressure selling prices pressure margin dollars but actually should have a positive impact on margin percentage.
And for those of you that are trying to quarterize our guidance this is probably a bit of a headwind to the first quarter because we again if scrap falls off we will have to revalue our rod or bill it our rod our wire inventories and our flat product inventories so that reevaluation will be a headwind to our EBIT and the respective benefit or the LIFO benefit based on GAAP accounting we won't book that benefit until each one of the quarters and based on a year in 2015 forecast.
So the pain is upfront.
The remedy is spread equally amongst the remaining quarters of the year.
Okay thanks for that color Karl and so just overall for the year would you anticipate to see margin improvement in the industrial segment? Yes I would expect so.
Okay and just you talked a little bit about the flat steel can you remind us how much you buy annually in flat steel and the potential against either savings I'm imagining you might realize there? About 400 000 tons josh that's changed pretty significantly because of our Store Fixtures business consumed a lot of flat products that is no longer part of us.
Okay I see and then maybe for Susan one question for you with respect to the revenue guidance just wondering if you could provide us at the midpoint what it implies for each of the segments? Thanks.
Yeah sure Josh and this is admittedly qualitative that it will give you some framework to think about.
In Residential I would assume something in the mid-to-high single-digit revenue growth.
For Commercial closer to mid single-digit and Industrial low single-digit and Specialized high single-digit.
All of that collectively decide where you want to be with each of the segments but the midpoint of our revenue guidance which are just short of 6%.
Okay great I appreciate the color thanks a lot I'll hop back in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Moore with CJS Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
This is [Robert Magic] [ph] in for Dan Moore.
Innerspring volumes picked up materially in 2014.
Do you see this as being the front end of a longer-term upswing in demand for mattresses and innersprings? And on the flip side do you see that spike as creating somewhat of a tough comp for growth in 2015? Well Robert I think as the year goes along this is Perry Davis we will see the comps become more difficult.
We obviously had a lot of challenges as I mentioned earlier last year in the first quarter particularly with me and the major selling weakens basically a washout.
But as the year progressed we saw those unit volumes continue to expand and by the end of the year again we were at a run rate that was extremely high.
And if you go back and you look at the statistics that ISPA put out in October they were showing 7.5% innerspring picked up year-on-year.
We were around 7%.
Go to November they showed a smaller little over 3%.
We were at 7% again and then like I said as the quarter ended we had a terrific "period" with heavy unit shipments 24% up year-on-year.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line is Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
On the Commercial business strong revenue growth in the quarter just if you give us any qualitative statements on what you're hearing from your customers on store excuse me on office furniture there in terms of order pace picking up what they are expecting for the year and just kind of any sort of outlook that will be great? Keith this is Karl.
It certainly was a good fourth quarter.
That is not an indicator of the industry.
We are definitely gaining some share.
We're positioning ourselves very well in Europe which was an area that we werent geographically strong in the past.
Domestically there was uptick from like I said new programs.
The bit more forecast is 4% growth this year.
I would expect us to probably double that so we'll see you know you see what the public report from a demand perspective it varies by each one of those customers depending on where they are in the product chain.
Okay and real I'll just sneak one and real quick here on the Comfort Core another great quarter on Comfort Core when you start hitting the big numbers that you're putting up the last couple of quarters in Comfort Core are there more customers to go to or is that naturally just going to slow down? It will naturally slow down somewhat as we get later in the year Keith but we have seen just a week ago in the Las Vegas market numerous new introductions in the Comfort Core category that continue to drive growth.
And if you look at all of last year compared to the prior year I mean we're talking 50% growth 2014 over 2013.
So will we be 50% again this year? I doubt it but we continue to see huge shifts and not only at the higher price points but we'll begin to see it in more of the midrange product and that's basically where the Vegas market was focused this time with new introductions was at those medium to medium upper high price points.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congratulations to the team on a great year.
My questions are as follows: if we could talk about cash flow and I'm particularly interested in the forecast for 2015 the puts and takes there and maybe you could touch on among others the legal settlement dollars to go out? And then perhaps Karl on working capital which has been so tightly managed in 2014? Thanks.
Yeah John this is Matt.
I'll jump in and take that one.
If you take the midpoint of our guidance for the net earnings contribution that's a pretty straightforward number something in the neighborhood of 280 million this year.
Still we have about 140 million shares out.
Our D&amp;A this coming year should be about 120 million.
The working capital here is a key piece of what does move around based upon what's happening in those various categories and operations has done a superb job in the last several years of freeing up a lot of capital in that regard.
As you've heard what you adjust for the years end accruals relative to the litigation we were trading at about 10% working capital level of investment we would anticipate that that would be about the level of investment this coming year as sales continue to grow which therefore means we would use some cash and working capital and that sort of gearing in 2015.
And then specifically relative to the accruals that we have taken on the litigation we would anticipate that most of that activity would take place in 2015 but of course that's one again hard to predict.
You throw all that together and we continue to feel very good that about $350 million with a hope to do better than that should be the working operating cash flow assumption you should have in your models.
So Matt roughly is there a range or guess on the litigation amount? Hard to guess that.
We now -- we'll say this that we'll first of all due to confidentiality considerations we rarely ever comment on any pending litigation as you might imagine.
And during the past few months we've had additional developments that occurred in that litigation to help us come up with the estimate that obviously we book now here in the fourth quarter as Dave mentioned in his comments.
And we believe that is sufficient for resolution of these issues.
Don't know for sure but that's certainly our best estimate at this time.
So relative to win would that cash go out the door? We just don't know.
We would -- it's carried as a current liability.
That's how GAAP require us to record it which implies that within 12 months that is likely to occur and that's where you will find it on our balance sheet.
John I suspect that a meaningful majority of it will be here in 2015 with some trail into early 2016.
Great.
Thank you.
And then if I could just may be ask you to comment as you look at '15 versus '14 and this is you know a complicated question I guess but more you simplify the better.
What in general you think raw material changes made due to your P&amp;L and currency.
What due to your P&amp;L the headwinds and tailwinds.
Thanks.
John the raw material is really the steel issue that I spoke of earlier.
If graph does trade down in February like the market expects there will be some impact on our pricing but it should be a positive again from a margin percentage perspective.
It's very difficult to forecast steel cost into the back half of the year right now but all-in-all I would expect that they will end the year somewhat and possibly significantly lower than they ended 2014.
As it relates to currency that from a transactional perspective we do a pretty darn good job of matching manufacturing and manufacturing cost in the geography of consumption; and then augment that by a pretty rigorous hedging program.
Our finance folks and operations folks worked really well together to adequately hedge ourselves.
From a translational perspective we did an analysis just the other day on currency exchange rates that are current so just two days ago.
And the impact on automotive which is our most internationally diverse business is about $25 million in top line and about $2.5 million from an EBIT perspective.
If you multiply that by two is probably too aggressive for the rest of the company just because of Auto being like I said the most geographically dispersed.
So we'll see those rates literally change every day every minute but currency is a bit of the headwind.
And John I'd just add relative to currency that just in the fourth quarter as a frame of reference sales were negative about $9 million relative to that translation aspect on the U.S.
dollar and EBIT very modest impact south of it obviously.
But $9 million was the top line headwind in the fourth quarter company-wide.
Great.
Thanks for that color.
I'll get back in queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness Crespi Hardt.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I was curious if you could give us operating rates the lowest and highest of course the divisions in the company.
Herb you mean capacity utilizations? Yes.
You have those.
I've got them here too Karl if you don't have in hand.
Highest; Herb is always going to be the steel mill.
Though it's near 100% it wasn't light in the fourth quarter of last year as we did some process improvements and took some outages to implement some new systems.
After that it would be Adjustable Beds in our U.S.
Spring operations today where volume is so good automotive would follow that.
There is a little bit around the globe but utilization rates are high.
From the lowest perspective it would be our commercial vehicle products business.
After that it would be our work furniture business where we made comment that we're underutilized the rest would be somewhere in between all of that.
And U.S.
Spring is of course the upper end of that Herb.
And I know you've heard Karl and Terry say in the past that we're busily building new higher speed more efficient equipment to put into our U.S.
Spring business to accommodate that demand.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Herb.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks again.
Just to make sure I understand what's going on in the residential segment on the margin side.
The adjusted margins were down 10 basis points despite a nice step up in revenue.
I realized some of that's the acquisition revenue for Sealy but is that all -- the relatively flat margins is that just due to the stock-based compensation or is there something else in there? Yes Josh that is.
I think we expanded in our comments that there's about $10 million of that stock comp that hit the segment.
If not for that charge the margins would have expanded pretty nicely.
I see okay.
Thanks for that.
And then you've talked a little bit about capacity additions in several of your businesses how should we think about contribution margins for 2015? Its a good question Josh.
And I think the discussion that just went through relative to were our utilization levels are higher helps to set the backdrop for that.
We should be comfortable in that 25% to 35% range that we've talked about for a long time but much of the growth that we're getting in 2015 is coming in those businesses that are already very busy until we're making incremental investments to support that growth.
And therefore it would be reasonable to assume that we might be in the lower half of the historical range versus the higher half.
Still good at incrementals and good businesses that we're very happy to have the growth occur.
Yeah.
Thanks for that Susan.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Now we'll just say thank you for your participation and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
One additional comment I apologize to interrupt.
But investors often ask us what separates Leggett from other public companies? And it's the -- the areas of business that we play in are our product but when you step back for just a second and think about 2014 Adjustable Beds in the third quarter were up 75%.
They were up 127% in the fourth quarter Comfort Core up 75% in the third quarter 59% in the fourth quarter.
That's our people.
So the thing that separates Leggett truly is our people.
It's the experts that we have in accounting the experts that we have in our logistics that make this happen in a very very difficult environment.
So I just wanted to stop for a second and echo Dave's prepared comments that our people had a great year and every company has people.
They don't have our people so that's the point of differentiation.
So I personally wanted to thank our people for doing an outstanding job.
Thats all Dave.
Thanks.
And with that we'll close.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations.
Thank you sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's first quarter conference call.
I'm Dave DeSonier and with me today are the following; Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO and Susan McCoy our VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for our call this morning is as follows; Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 201; and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
Jack Crusa who is Senior Vice President of the company and President of the Specialized Products and Industrial Materials Segments is also joining us this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information on this call including non-GAAP reconciliation.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
Yesterday we reported record first quarter results from continuing operations and are very pleased to have maintained the strong performance with which we ended 2014.
Sales increased 10% in the first quarter from a combination of strong unit volume growth and acquisitions.
Currency translation impacts and raw material-related price decreases offset a portion of these gains.
We continued to benefit from the shift in bedding to Comfort Core springs new adjustable bed programs that ramped up last year and ongoing content gains and new program awards in automotive.
Importantly nearly all of our businesses experienced volume growth in the first quarter.
Earnings per share from continuing operations were also a first quarter record at $0.50 per share up 32% from the $0.38 per share we earned in the first quarter of 2014.
Earnings benefited from strong unit volume growth pricing discipline and operational improvements in certain businesses partially offset by a $6-million impairment charge associated with our industrial steel tubing operation.
EBIT increased 30% and EBIT margin improved to 11.6% up 180 basis points over first quarter last year.
We completed one acquisition during the first quarter which is a European private label manufacturer of high-end upholstered furniture for office commercial and other settings.
This business is complementary to our existing North American private label operation and allows us to support our work furniture customers as they expand globally.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on rolling three-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the three-year period that will end on December 31 2015 we have so far generated compound annual TSR of 28% per year which places us in the top 34% of the S&amp;P 500.
Now before Karl comments on the individual segments performance for the quarter I'd like to take a minute to discuss the change in our segment structure that occurred during the first quarter.
Because of the recent divestiture of the majority of the store fixtures business along with the retirement of Joe Downes who was the President of the Industrial Materials Segment our management organizational structure and all related internal reporting changed during the first quarter.
The adjustable bed and fashion bed businesses were moved from residential furnishings to commercial products.
The aerospace business was moved from industrial materials to specialized products.
And the spiel machinery operation which produces wire-forming equipment primarily for Leggett's internal use was moved from specialized products to residential furnishings.
Perry Davis continues as President of Residential Furnishings.
Dennis Park continues as President of Commercial Products.
Jack Crusa is now President of both Specialized Products and Industrial Materials.
We revised the prior-year financial data for each of the segments to allow for comparison with ongoing results.
These revisions only affect segment information.
There have been no changes to previously reported consolidated financial statements.
You will find all of these details including an overview of the revised segment structure on our website and in the 8-K that we filed on April 16th.
And now I'll turn the call over to Karl Glassman.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Most of our businesses continue to perform extremely well during the first quarter and all four segments posted volume growth.
In the residential furnishings segment first quarter total sales increased 18%.
Same location sales increased 10% from strong unit volume growth partially offset by currency translation impacts.
Excluding acquisitions U.S.
spring component dollar sales increased 14%.
Innerspring unit volume grew 15% with Comfort Core up 66% during the quarter.
Box spring unit volume increased 8%.
Sales decreased 3% in international spring with strong volume growth of 11% more than offset by currency translation impacts.
Excluding acquisitions furniture component sales increased 4% in the first quarter sales in our seating and sofa sleeper businesses grew 2% and motion hardware unit volume increased 14%.
Sales also increased in fabric converting geo components and carpet cushion.
First quarter segment EBIT increased with the benefit from higher sales and pricing discipline partially offset by the non-reoccurrence of last year's $4 million building gain.
EBIT margin in the quarter also reflected the impact of higher adjustable bed pass-through sales and acquired innerspring facilities both of which have lower than segment average margins.
In the commercial product segment first quarter total sales increased 21% including the work furniture acquisition that Dave mentioned earlier.
Same location sales increased 17% primarily from continued strong demand in adjustable bed.
Unit volume in that business increased 87% during the first quarter.
Fashion bed sales grew 7%.
Work furniture same location sales were essentially flat with 3% volume growth offset by currency translation impact.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased modestly in the first quarter due to higher sales.
We're rapidly expanding production capacity in our adjustable bed business to support continued strong demand in that category.
Work furniture margins improved slightly versus the prior year but continue to be well below target levels due to underutilized capacity and poor performance in our Chinese joint venture operation.
In the industrial materials segment first quarter sales increased 6% primarily from higher unit volume within our drawn wire operations driven by strong bedding demand partially offset by steel-related price decreases.
EBIT was flat and EBIT margin decreased slightly with the benefit from higher unit volume offset by a $6-million impairment charge related to the steel tubing business.
In the specialized product segment first quarter sales grew 6%.
Automotive sales increased 8% with very strong volume growth of approximately 15% partially offset by currency translation impact.
Modest volume growth in aerospace was more than offset by currency translation for a slight sales decrease in the quarter.
Machinery sales were up 5% and CVP sales declined slightly.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin grew primarily due to higher volume and operational improvements in several parts of the segment including aerospace where we continue to benefit from integration of the European operations that we acquired in 2013.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some of the additional financial details along with our outlook for 2015.
Thank you Karl and good morning everyone.
Consistent with our normal seasonality and our internal forecast operating cash flow in the first quarter was $32 million.
Cash flow increased $52 million versus the first quarter of last year due to higher earnings and a smaller increase in working capital primarily in accounts receivable.
Adjusted working capital as a percentage of sales was 10.1% at the end of the first quarter.
Excluding the litigation accruals that we recorded in 2014 which are included in current liabilities working capital was a more seasonally normal 12.3% of annualized sales.
In February we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share and extended our record of consecutive annual dividend increases to 44 years at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $42.47 per share the current yield is 2.9% one of the highest dividend yields among the 52 companies that comprise the S&amp;P 500 dividend aristocrats.
We repurchased 1.5 million shares of our stock in the first quarter at an average price of $44.53 and issued 1.5 million shares largely for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital at 35.3% comfortably within our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
For the full-year 2015 we again expect strong unit volume growth which should lead to another year of record earnings per share from continuing operations.
As we announced yesterday we're raising the low end of our prior guidance and now anticipate 2015 earnings from continuing operations of $1.95 to $2.10 per share.
Our expectation for sales is unchanged at $3.9 billion to $4.1 billion.
This range represents a 3% to 8% increase versus our reported $3.78 billion of sales in 2014.
As was the case in the first quarter we expect full-year volume growth and acquisitions to be partially offset by currency translation impact and raw material-related price decreases.
Based upon this guidance range we currently expect a full-year EBIT margin between 11% and 11.5% which would be our highest EBIT margin level since the year 2000.
We expect operating cash to exceed $350 million in 2015.
Dividends should require about $170 million of cash and capital expenditures should approximate $120 million.
We continue to make investments to support growth in businesses and product lines where sales are strong and for efficiency improvement and maintenance.
Our incentive plans emphasize returns on capital which include net fixed assets and working capital.
This emphasis we believe helps ensure that we're efficiently utilizing our asset base and investing capital dollars where the highest return potential exists.
As has been our practice after funding dividends and capital expenditures remaining cash flow will be prioritized toward competitively advantaged acquisitions.
Potential acquisitions must meet stringent strategic and financial criteria.
Should no acquisitions come to fruition and if excess cash flow is available we have a standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established.
However we currently expect to repurchase between 3 million and 5 million shares in 2015 and issue approximately 3 million shares primarily for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Matt.
It truly was an exceptional quarter and a great start to what we believe will be a very noteworthy year.
Now because we know that many of our employees themselves shareholders listen diligently to these conference calls I want to sincerely thank them for their continued efforts.
This shoutout is for you and the commitment to with which you go about executing your respective duties.
All of you are very important elements in the makeup of this global enterprise.
Thank you all very very much.
I'll now turn the call back over to David DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask one question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to reenter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
Jesse we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
This is Bobby filling in for Budd.
Thank you for taking my questions and congratulations on another strong quarter.
First off on the innerspring unit growth of 15% can you please give us a little sense of how that trended during the quarter and maybe what you guys are seeing so far in that business unit quarter to date here in the second quarter? What I'm going to give you is organic growth only and it's on a same number of sales day basis okay.
So it's as pure as the driven snow.
January units were up 21%; February units were up 25%; March units up 3%.
The interesting thing is through the first three weeks again organic-only same number of days of sales units are up 19%.
So what we're experiencing is the producer's start of their line conversions as they position their floors for Memorial Day.
Okay.
And was the comparison for March last year something notable in there to cause it to decelerate from February to March? Yes you'll remember that from an ISPA reported perspective January and February units last year were negative slightly flat.
We saw a spike because of the weather-related issues so the comps became more difficult in March.
The comps for April actually aren't particularly easy so we're really heartened by this 19%.
Again it's only three weeks but it's feeling pretty darn good.
And then lastly Karl in your comments you called out adding capacity to the adjustable base business.
Can you maybe give a sense or a little bit additional color on how that expansion's going and maybe what time frame until the capacity is added all the way? Yes we historically have produced adjustable beds almost exclusively in North America and in a large facility in Georgetown Kentucky that has been well exceeding its theoretic maximum capacity for quite some time.
So what we did is we greenfielded a facility in the first quarter in Juarez Mexico that's adjacent to our current automotive facility.
Derisking the start-up of that operation the automotive people have operated a very nice very successful facility for a number of years.
So they're managing the production of that product and then shipping it across the border to El Paso where the adjustable bed folks take possession.
So the facility is in production.
It's ahead of its pro forma.
We also have started a relatively small facility here in Joplin; it's more associated with initial production of new product runs.
So it's allowing us to run all of our R&amp;D launches into a production environment before we put them into the two larger manufacturing facilities which historically we've had to do that in Georgetown.
So we feel good.
It's pressured margins a little bit in the first quarter but with the significant growth of adjustables which we expect to continue that it was a prudent move and probably a little bit past due.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Just on the $6 million impairment charge in the industrial segment for steel tubing could you go over that a little bit? Yes I think I'll start.
Matt you might want to comment too.
But Josh good morning this is Dave.
What we effectively did was took a look at the fair value of that business and went through very normal accounting protocol and determined that there was a significant portion of that $6 million associated with standard goodwill impairment.
What it also does Josh is more closely aligns the value on our books to the likely proceeds that we will get from disposition of that business.
Matt can you -- Yes Josh a little specificity.
The goodwill piece of the $6 million number was about $4 million of it and you will find it in our held for sale on our balance sheet as you see it reported.
Okay.
So excluding that margins in that business would have been around 12.5%.
Is that the right way to think about the run rate for the business in terms of margins? Josh your percentage looks a little different than ours because you're calculating that just on the external sales and not on the total sales.
I think we still believe there's some room for the margins there to improve.
Okay.
So adjusting for that what's a better margin run rate to look at for that business? Or what would this quarter have looked like excluding that? It'd be around 7%s as we look at it.
And for the full year with everything that's going on something in that ballpark would probably be a reasonable place to think about its margins.
And then Susan just given the new reporting structure can you give us the guidance at the midpoint what the guidance implies for each segment? Yes for margins for residential I would think something in the 9 to 10 range.
For commercial and industrial both probably in that 6 to 7 range and for specialized somewhere in the mid-teens.
Relative to sales growth and again this is on segments total sales for residential mid-single-digit order of magnitude growth.
Commercial pipings industrial down low single digit but remember there's some commodity impact that's happening there and then in specialized mid to high single digits.
As you would have noticed going through the slides both residential and specialized have some currency headwinds and who knows what's going to happen between now and the end of the year but we would expect those likely to continue.
And then just one more if I could.
Just Karl on scrap costs and wire rod pricing and the spread between the two could you give us an update there please.
Sure Josh.
Scrap deflated every month through the first quarter.
Into April we saw about a $7-a-ton decrease which is the least decrease of the previous months.
We think that we're nearing bottom.
It's hard to know.
At current scrap prices it gets to the point where it's just not profitable for folks to collect scrap but scrap is as you know correlated to iron ore prices and iron ore is under pressure.
So it will be interesting.
We're pretty confident that we're near bottom.
The -- because of the normal lag that we've spoken to both on an inflationary and a deflationary cycle we've said in an inflationary environment expect a 60-day lag and deflationary environment expect about a 90-day lag.
The spreads in the first quarter were actually better than they were in the fourth quarter of last year but those spreads or metal margin will compress a little bit in the second quarter.
Now as we transfer product into the rest of the segment from a rod to wire perspective and then into components we would expect some expansion of those margins because of the lag at that level.
So it gets complicated.
Long answer but we think we're near bottom in scrap pricing pressures.
Okay.
So some compression in 2Q but then expansion you're saying in 3Q 4Q.
That's what we would expect.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes another question on industrial.
You discussed the higher unit volume 11% in the numbers.
Is that all owing to the strength you're seeing in bedding or are there other drivers to that number? It's primarily bedding-related.
There's some strength in some adjacent markets but it's primarily bedding.
Automotive is one example of a much much smaller positive impact.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dan Moore with CJS Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
This is Robert Magic filling in for Dan Moore.
In residential furnishings 10% growth in same location sales was exceptionally strong.
What were the key drivers there and remind us was weather a factor last year? Every business unit in residential grew as we stated there was significant growth in our bedding components significant growth in home furniture.
We saw growth in our carpet cushion businesses in our industrial fabrics and geo.
So that's all of it.
There was pretty significant growth across the segment and we expect that to continue.
And operating cash flow improved significantly year over year this quarter.
Do you see upside to your full-year $350 million estimate? Robert this is Matt.
You may notice that at the beginning of the year we said cash flow would be approximately $350 million for the full year.
We've now modified that just a bit to express it as that we fully expect it to exceed $350 million.
Working capital continues to be the number that is most difficult to pin down.
As you know we feel really good about our earnings outlook and D&amp;A is pretty readily discernible.
So yes I think we feel really good about $350 million-plus as the right metric to bear in mind as we sit here today.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
These growth rates are so good I'm not sure I'm following the same company I have for the last 25 years.
I had two unrelated questions.
One if you could help me with the math on a pure flow-through EBIT margin excluding acquisition revenue et cetera how that looked in the quarter.
And secondly if you could give us some thoughts around the acquisition size profit margins how it fits in synergy opportunities et cetera.
Thank you.
John I'll take a shot at the first question and when you have time and for others that are listening in the slide deck we posted to the website there's a sales and EBIT bridge for the quarter that we include and it's on slide number 4.
But basically what that shows you is it breaks down the sales change is that there was about $73 million of incremental sales in the quarter that was related to volume gain.
That was offset by currency and raw materials so that our same location sales change was a little bit less than that.
EBIT increased by a fairly notable amount on that volume improvement.
We do think that we're hitting our long-term expressed 25% to 35% incremental margin on that -- on the volume that we're getting.
And in addition there's some other things that are helping EBIT in the quarter as we've mentioned including some pricing discipline operational improvements in some important areas.
And all of that collectively is helping our aggregate flow-through EBIT benefit.
And then John as it relates to the acquisition I assume that you mean the transaction related to the three Sealy component plants last July.
What's happening there is the volumes are very good.
And from an EBIT perspective what we're experiencing is exactly what we told you at the time of the acquisition in that it's barely accretive that it's going to take us some time to get some more efficient more productive manufacturing capacity in place.
It's taken us a little longer than we expected because the volumes are greater than we expected.
The macro market is just pretty darn strong so we feel good about the progress.
We will get some uplift as Sealy is just now starting to ship their new product line.
So every time there's a product launch and we're able to replace the older less efficient product with newer more efficiently produced product it will help us incrementally.
So we continue to be very optimistic.
We've internalized really 30 days after the acquisition those additional wire tons which have been beneficial to industrial things are going well.
Actually that was my third question and I appreciate you answering that.
I was actually asking about the European private label business you just bought.
Yes let me take a stab at that and Karl might want to flesh it out a little bit.
But I think you know John the first quarter only had about I think $4 million or so worth of revenue and for the full year that's closer to $47 million or $48 million pro forma.
And the margins there the pro forma margin is higher than what we have experienced recently in the segment but certainly below our overall corporate target.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness.
Please proceed with your question.
I have a couple questions.
One is I'm just wondering what the earnings would have been had you done that $50-million share buyback.
I knew that question was coming Matt.
I ask Matt that question often Herb.
I'm not suggesting you do it now but way back then.
Yes.
I see very -- in fact no restructuring charges which would imply you're in pretty good shape across the board.
First of all is that true? And secondly with the European private label business will there be some charges? Yes we're in very good shape quite honestly.
A lot of the heavy lifting has already been done.
The operating men and women have done a yeoman's job I think Herb of having to deal with a lot of those restructuring costs.
It doesn't mean that we won't periodically have the odd amount that we'll call out but the significant vast majority of restructuring costs have already been done.
And Karl do you want to comment on the European aspect of that? No there won't be any charges related to the European acquisition at all.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question is coming from the line of Allen Zwickler with First Manhattan.
Please proceed with your question.
I remember when it used to be just us talking and then John and Budd would maybe throw in a question to say they were there but it was just us.
But anyway I certainly also wish you had bought back stock when the stock was a couple of dollars a share but that's all right.
Anyway one quick question and then a little longer.
One is it certainly looks like you must be gaining some market share in the U.S.
and so I just wondered whether that was a function of pricing.
And the second question just moreover is capacity because what you've mentioned a couple times on the call and back a few years ago you certainly took down the CapEx because you were -- at that [indiscernible] you had more capacity than you needed.
Where are you now if we were playing baseball in a nine-inning game? Before Karl addresses market share and capacity I do think it's prudent to thank you for what has really been decades of following our company and knowing our company so thank you for that.
Now Karl do you want to take market share? Yes.
Allen yes we're picking up market share in the United States and every geography in the world that we participate.
It is not predicated on price; it's predicated on product development and innovation.
That's part of the reason for our margin expansion.
So yes I appreciate the fact that you're noticing that we're picking up share but I assure you it's not on price.
As it relates to capacity that we used to speak in terms of $400 million of available capacity.
That shrunk significantly.
We're as we said out of capacity from an adjustable perspective.
We're adding capacity from an automotive perspective every day.
We're nearing full capacity on most of our innerspring categories in the United States.
Ballpark we're probably within the $200 million area of available capacity but it's very specific to businesses.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes on the work furniture volumes there up 3% that was a little below what I was assuming just given the strong big win numbers and some of the numbers reported by the office furniture companies.
Anything noteworthy there? Josh it's disappointing to us as well.
That business as you know is inherently choppy from a quarter-to-quarter basis.
We believe -- the big win numbers for the year forecasted industry to grow at 5%; we believe that we'll grow greater than that rate excluding the acquisition.
It was just a little bit softer in the first quarter.
We continue to gain share with new programs.
The first quarter in my opinion was a bit of an outlier.
And just a question on the slide deck under the residential key points you mentioned that EBIT was impacted from higher adjustable bed pass-through sales.
Is that just referring to floor display models going out to the retailers? No Josh.
What happens is the product is produced in the commercial segment and then it is shipped to the residential segment for certain customers primarily bedding manufacturers.
There's two large manufacturers that are customers.
We ship those products just in time.
So the residential guys are really on the fulfillment end so they have very little incremental margin.
They're just handling the product so the sales are recorded in the residential and the profitability is in commercial.
I see okay.
So that's why that was listed in the residential slide instead of the commercial slide? Exactly.
That is correct.
The bucket that the sales were reported in.
Okay.
And then just the Comfort Core is now as a percentage of your total innerspring what's it look like today? The end of the first quarter it was 26%.
I believe it will be pretty significantly higher than that at the end of the second quarter because as I said the manufactures are just now shipping their new product launches that are very heavy weighted to Comfort Core though we expect continued outside growth.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Switching back to commercial now with the new reporting structure can you give us an idea of the rank order of those three businesses just in terms of size of the unit? Boy if we look in terms of total sales adjustable would now be the largest.
Work furniture would be next and consumer products or fashion beds if we want to call it that is the smallest.
Karl what's your view now of adjustables and their penetration rate in the mattress industry? Is there any way to get a good number on that? Keith no and it's a heavily debated number.
The penetration at premium price points is very high.
I think that there's some large manufacturers at certain price points that are probably at a 50% attach rate; when we move into the promotional price point there's almost no attach rate.
So aggregate everything together we're probably in a 10% area but that's a heavily debated number.
It just depends on what sector or segment of the market that you look at.
I'm absolutely convinced we will see outsized growth being double digit once we normalize.
You know that we'll annualize our program wins at the end of this second quarter but even past that I expect double-digit growth.
And it's still coming at the high end.
Is that your projection? Not exclusively but primarily.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
So maybe Dave you could walk us through the European private label business you bought tell us the acquisition criteria that I know you employ and how that's layered on this business.
And then what the plan is what you bring to the table.
Is it revenue growth opportunities is it margin both etcetera? Thank you.
Yes.
Excuse me John.
As Matt mentioned in his commentary our acquisition criteria are significantly more stringent than they've ever been in the past and so we're looking at a lot of businesses that we decide to pass on for various reasons strategic or otherwise.
But this particular acquisition being a private label manufacturer is one that I and Karl and Matt and many of us in the company have been strong proponents of especially due to the fact that our current North American private label business does so well performs a very very good service for some of our key customers and makes a very fair return for our shareholders.
Many of our North American customers have an interest in expanding globally and so it was either a matter of acquisition or greenfielding another business similar to our genesis business here in the United States.
And then synergistically some of [indiscernible] customers and other European customers of ours are interested in growing their market here in North America and doing so through private label initiatives and asked us to consider that.
So it was very fortuitous of -- the individual that -- and his sister that were the owners of this business are very young people very energetic and enthusiastic and we believe we've got an outstanding group of people associated with this acquisition.
But it passed all of the screens that we use for strategic and financial return on invested capital et cetera and simultaneously met two of those long-term strategic goals both here in North America and in other parts of the world associated with private label growth.
The only thing that I would add Dave is that being Polish-based it's in an area and a region of Poland that is low cost high quality.
We're very very comfortable as are our European customers with the quality standards out of that facility.
And as you know that there is a lot of global move of European manufacturers in North America and vice versa.
So that consistency as Dave said between the two markets is important.
We're very very comfortable putting our name on the Trio Line building very proud to do so.
And any sense of what the revenue growth rate has been for this business and what that might go to? Or is it a margin expansion story more so than a revenue growth story? Thank you.
John it's combination of those.
The past revenue growth as a percentage has been almost ex-- it's extraordinary.
It's good.
On the other hand as it gets bigger I know you've heard me say this before the bigger you get the harder it is to continue to compound.
But we're expecting substantial growth substantial top line and simultaneously there are some synergies here as well as some new business that is going to be priced a little bit differently than what we've done in the past which will also enhance the margins.
So I know that's sort of a mealy mouthed answer to your question but it's really a combination of continued meaningful growth rate and relatively straightforward margin enhancement.
Thank you.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional concluding comments.
We'll just say thank you for your attention and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Dave DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's second quarter conference call.
With me this morning are the following; Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows.
Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release.
Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights.
Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2015.
Finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
Dennis Park who is Senior VP of the company and President of the Commercial Products segment is also joining us this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed or recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thank you Dave.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
Yesterday we reported record second quarter results from continuing operations and are very pleased to have extended our string of strong quarterly results that began in the second quarter of last year.
Sales increased 4% in the quarter.
Higher unit volume and acquisitions added 9% to year-over-year sales growth.
These gains were partially offset by raw-material-related price decreases and currency translation impact which combined reduced sales by 5%.
We continue to benefit from the shift in bedding to comfort core springs new adjustable bed programs that ramped up last year and ongoing content gains and new program awards in automotive.
Importantly nearly all of our businesses experienced volume growth in the quarter versus strong prior-year comparisons with sales having grown 9% in the second quarter of last year.
Earnings per share from continuing operations were also a second quarter record at $0.53 per share up 10% from the $0.48 per share we earned in the second quarter of 2014.
Earnings benefited primarily from higher unit volumes and pricing discipline partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.
EBIT increased 17% and EBIT margin improved to 12% up 130 basis points over second quarter last year.
This was the highest quarterly margin that we've achieved in 15 years and reflects the improvements that we have made to our business portfolio and cost structure as well as the strong market positions of our current businesses.
Since the recession in 2009 we have spoken about the earnings leverage from incremental volume produced utilizing excess capacity.
With market share gains and higher market demand our capacity utilization has increased.
The margin improvement that we have realized over the past few years reflects in part that higher utilization.
We still have available capacity to accommodate additional volume in many of our businesses but there's less today than just a few quarters ago.
In certain of our businesses and product lines we have little to no capacity left and we're investing meaningful capital dollars to support continued growth.
In automotive we're expanding capacity to support new programs that will begin production in 2016 and later years.
In bedding we're investing rapidly in equipment that we build in our own Swiss operation to support the tremendous growth in comfort core which we expect to continue for the next few years.
In Adjustable Bed which operated a single large location just a year ago we're adding new locations to broaden our geographic scope and expect to be operating four facilities in North America by the end of this year.
We're very pleased to be making these investments since they are directly associated with our expectation for continued meaningful growth in some of our strongest-performing businesses.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the three-year period ended on December 31 2015 we have so far generated compound annual TSR of 31% per year which places us in the top 20% of the S&amp;P 500.
Now I will turn the call over to Karl Glassman.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Most of our businesses continued to perform extremely well during the second quarter.
In the Residential Furnishings segment second quarter total sales increased 10%.
Same-location sales increased 3% with 7% unit volume growth partially offset by raw-material-related price decreases and currency translation impact.
Sales trends for the major businesses and product categories excluding acquisitions deflation and currency were as follows.
U.S.
Spring component dollar sales increased 15%.
Innerspring unit volume grew 17% with comfort core up 71% during the quarter.
Box spring unit volume increased 7%.
International Spring sales grew 6%.
Furniture component sales increased 2% with sales in the seating and sofa sleeper businesses up 6% and motion hardware unit volume up 2%.
Sales also increased in Fabric Converting and Geo Components while volume was down slightly in Carpet Cushion.
Segment EBIT increased slightly in the quarter but EBIT margin declined with the benefit from higher unit volume largely offset by other factors including increased performance-based compensation expense.
EBIT margin also reflects the impact of higher Adjustable Bed pass-through sales and acquired facilities both of which have lower-than-segment average margins.
In the Commercial Product segment second quarter total sales increased 28%.
Same-location sales increased 18% primarily from continued strong demand in Adjustable Bed.
Unit volume in that business increased 81% during the quarter.
Fashion Bed sales grew 12%.
Work Furniture same-location sales decreased 5% in the second quarter reflecting currency translation impact lower volume in our Chinese operation and a less favorable product mix.
Unit volume in North America was up slightly.
In early March we acquired a European private-label manufacturer of high-end upholstered furniture for office commercial and other settings.
This business is complementary to our North American private-label operation and allows us to support our Work Furniture customers as they expand globally.
This acquisition added 10% to the segment's sales growth during the second quarter.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin increased in the second quarter primarily due to higher sales.
As Dave mentioned we're rapidly expanding production capacity in our Adjustable Bed business to support continued strong demand in that category.
In the Industrial Materials segment second quarter sales decreased 9% entirely from steel-related price reductions.
Unit volumes were roughly flat with growth in Drawn Wire driven by strong bedding demand offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill.
A soft softer steel market and scheduled equipment upgrades at the rod mill resulted in fewer trade shipments as was expected during versus the second quarter of last year.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased significantly during the quarter primarily due to cost reductions and pricing disciplines.
In the Specialized Product segment second quarter sales were flat with an approximate 5% volume improvement offset by currency translation impact.
Excluding currency changes Automotive sales increased 11% Aerospace sales grew 10% and Machinery sales were up 13% during the quarter.
These sales gains were partially offset by very soft demand in CVP with second quarter volume in that business down 20% largely due to an industry change related to marketing programs for four commercial vehicles.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin grew slightly with the benefit from higher volume largely offset by increased performance-based compensation expense and several smaller factors.
I will now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan who will discuss some additional financial details along with our outlook for the full year.
Thanks Karl and good morning everyone.
Consistent with our normal seasonality and our internal forecast operating cash flow in the second quarter was $95 million down slightly from the same quarter last year.
For the six months of the year operating cash flow increased $44 million or 52% to $127 million due to higher earnings and a smaller increase in working capital which was primarily related to accounts receivable.
Adjusted working capital as a percentage of sales was 9.9% at the end of the second quarter.
Excluding the foam litigation accruals which are included in current liabilities working capital was a more seasonally normal 11.6% of annualized sales.
In May we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share.
2015 marks our 44th consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $50.22 the current yield is 2.5%.
We repurchased 1.2 million shares of our stock in the second quarter at an average price of $48.04 and issued 200 000 shares largely for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital at 36% comfortably within our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We also monitor debt to EBITDA which is another typical financial metric and at the end of the second quarter debt was 1.9 times our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA.
For the full year 2015 we continue to expect strong unit volume growth and margin improvement which should lead to another year of record earnings per share from continuing operations.
As we announced yesterday we increased our guidance and now anticipate 2015 earnings from continuing operations of $2 to $2.15 per share.
Our prior EPS range was $1.95 to $2.10.
We also increased the low-end of our prior sales guidance and now expect full year sales of $3.95 billion to $4.1 billion.
This revised sales range represents a 4% to 8% increase over 2014 and includes an approximate 5% impact from raw-material-related price deflation and currency translation.
Based upon this guidance we now anticipate a full year EBIT margin between 11.3% and 11.6% which would be our highest EBIT margin level since the year 2000.
We again expect operating cash flow to exceed $350 million in 2015.
Dividend should require about $170 million of cash and capital expenditures should approximate $120 million for the year.
As has been our practice after funding dividends and capital expenditures remaining cash flow will be prioritized toward competitively advantaged acquisitions.
Potential acquisitions must meet stringent strategic and financial criteria.
Should no acquisitions come to fruition and if excess cash flow is available we have a standing authorization from the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established.
However we currently expect to repurchase between 3 million and 5 million shares in 2015 and issue approximately 2.5 million shares primarily for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Matt.
As I mentioned last quarter we believe 2015 will be a very noteworthy year and the second quarter results certainly support that belief.
Our teams are finding ways to gain market share and content and improve efficiencies by critically controlling throughput quality and cost.
We're listening carefully to our customers and are dedicated to developing and manufacturing what they need while delivering when and where they need it.
We continue to be excited about the benefits our shareholders have recently experienced and those that lie ahead.
Thanks to all for participating in our discussion today and I will now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask only one question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to reenter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
Jessi we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
First question on the steel deflation where are you in the cycle of that? Your guidance would imply that things are about to get better but any details of what you think is coming in the future would help.
Our forecast has changed a little bit in the last 30 days.
30 days we would've told you that based on about a $15 a ton inflation in scrap from April through May that we would see continued price reinflation.
In the market there was a $15 to $25 a ton increase in wire and rod announced for June 1 and then another $25 for July 1.
And actually from a market perspective there's probably $40 of those increases were obtained.
Now the current forecast based on some softening prices in iron ore which is highly correlated to scrap or I should say vice versa scrap is highly correlated to iron ore pricing -- that we expect some scrap deflation in August probably in the range of $15 a ton.
So I thought we were at bottom of deflationary cycle; starting to see some recovery.
That doesn't look to be the case.
All that commentary was on long products.
On flat products we believe that we will see another maybe 10% deflation during the third quarter as compared to second quarter though we're uncertain.
Okay.
If we see the deflation in scrap on both sides will we see some of those increases come down or will there be a spread there for you to maintain for a period of time? Once we stabilize the spread will be enhanced.
Once we reinflate there will be a little bit of a lag in our ability then to pass through.
There's always an ability to retain deflation on the downside and then a little bit of slowness in recovery on the upside.
But if there is a period of steady-state we will see a reinflation of our spread at the raw material level.
Now I will complement our people.
They've done a wonderful job at the wire and the component level of holding on to that pricing and showing really significant pricing discipline.
Second question shifting to adjustables.
I think you had said you have four facilities now or you will have four facilities in the future.
Just an update on capacity there.
We currently have three facilities two of which have been added since the first of the year.
The fourth facility that is mentioned in the release will be online by the fourth quarter and all four units will be fully operational by year-end.
The driver for filling up that capacity; is that going to be primarily new customer wins for your adjustable products or will it just be growth of the existing base? Combination of both but we're continuing to see new customers come on board in 2015.
We have just recently signed two major programs in the last 60 days so it's really being driven by both.
Your new program wins are they coming at the higher end of your price spectrum or the lower end of your price spectrum? I would say that again both but probably would see a little more on the lower end from a price standpoint because we're seeing an increase there in terms of the attachment rate on the more middle price point programs.
When you say low middle can you kind of translate that roughly to a retail price point in round numbers? Well the primary activity continues to be in that $1699 price point so if you went down to that next level it would be growth in that $1200 to $1400 price level.
The next question is coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a question Karl on the innerspring unit growth the 17% that's the highest I can find in my model so great quarter there.
Can you give a little sense of how that trended during the quarter and maybe what you guys are seeing so far in the business or here in the third quarter? Josh I would be happy to.
April we were up 22%; May was up 14%; June was up 15% so that is an aggregation of the 17%.
To date through the first three shipping weeks of July we're up 9%.
We feel good about those trends.
We continue to pick up some market share and fortunately the market demand is very robust.
You had mentioned some market share gains.
Just how do you feel about the underlying consumer right now? Certainly speaks to maybe some greater confidence on there.
Was that what you see? Yes Josh as we've spoke in the past bedding is primarily driven by a competent consumer.
So job formations wage inflation all of those things because of the replacement nature of the product while all of those macroeconomic statistics are choppy they are all trending in the right direction.
So it is highly correlated to consumer confidence somewhat assisted by housing moves.
Our next question is coming from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Perhaps just if you could update us on where estimated penetration is of comfort core is today and how high you expect that or you think that can go over the next several years.
At the end of the first quarter it was 25% of our total U.S.
mattress unit sales.
At the end of the second quarter it was 28%.
I believe we will be at a 30% or greater run rate by the end of the year.
I certainly think that the market has capacity for the mid-30%s as a core itself but there is also upward demand in toppers using micro coils as a replacement for foams.
It gives the consumer the benefit of reduced body impression.
So we're not near the end of the growth potential for that category.
And given the expectations of your capacity builds across multiple lines should we expect a flattening or perhaps modest step back in margins over the next few quarters or will that capacity build be entirely in the CapEx line? The product is a high-margin product; significantly higher margin than the product that it replaces.
The margin in dollars and as a percentage are better than the product that it replaces.
But to your point we're adding capacity.
I don't see the margin profile changing in that business there's just too much demand.
The machines come online very very quickly.
Our people are wonderfully talented at innovation around that category that allows us and the mattress manufacturer and the retailer to differentiate themselves.
So we feel very good about the margin profiles as they exist today and expect long-term expansion.
And other fixed costs that aren't depreciation are more -- are absorbed over a broader base which certainly helps maintain or improve that margin as Karl said.
Lastly and I will jump out.
You continue to take share in auto obviously but just talk more generally about the trends you are seeing.
We're seeing sort of into the summer months very mixed trends by geography.
Any data points or observations you can provide would be very helpful.
Dan it's important I wouldn't say that we're gaining share because our shares are large.
What we're gaining is content within each vehicle.
It's not that we're selling into more OEMs or more platforms; it's just those platforms are more robust from a content perspective.
Demand is good.
North American demand continues to be strong.
Read a study last night that the average passenger vehicle is on the road in North America for 11.5 years which begs replacement.
So the demand trends are expected to continue to be strong.
We're seeing some recovery in Europe which is a good thing; year-on-year growth.
There certainly is a little bit of a step back in China but that has been primarily in passenger cars.
The SUV demand continues to grow.
We have significantly more demand in each SUV than we do in the passenger car side of things.
So the Chinese growth is choppy but it still is growing at a faster rate than any of the other large geographies.
Our next question is coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess the question I would like to just parse on is to parse out the difference between currency impact and pricing impact.
And not only for this quarter but Karl you talked a little bit about steel.
It has had an impact in other areas too.
Can you give us a feel of where that is going to happen; what your crystal ball tells you about going forward? And also maybe the impact on the LIFO for the year as well? In the second quarter you might remember in the first quarter currency and price combined to about a 3% impact.
That was much larger currency at that point than price probably a 2-1 split.
In this most recent quarter currency still is about a 2% hit prices starting to approach 3%.
Going forward we said for the full year we think we've got a combined impact that is about 5% of a downdraft on sales.
That suggests that we will have a little bit more combined effect in the third quarter which lines up with expectations relative to price adjustments that are indexed that will kick in in the third quarter.
So that 3-2 split in the second quarter while we probably will see a similar effect on currency assuming that both the euro and Canadian dollars don't move much pricing will be somewhat more negative in the third quarter.
Okay.
And for the year then LIFO or is that -- any change in your thoughts on that? We're still forecasting $20 million for the full year based on what we know right now.
Okay.
And what about price givebacks? That's the last side of that.
Your customers are aware of what's going on in pricing as well.
Budd at this point we think that there will be some price givebacks that impact us to Susan's point in the third quarter.
I believe we will be through that in the fourth quarter and it's so sensitive as you said to what happens from a raw material perspective.
At this point we don't know if we're going to see a bottoming out in 4Q or start to see some reinflation.
If we see reinflation we will announce price increases pretty quickly.
Those were very important elements of our thought process Budd as we came forward with a revised and upward EPS forecast.
Certainly as Karl said crystal ball isn't clear on some of those elements but those are our best judgments.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question is coming from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
I would like to delve into the CapEx.
It's great you are growing that's a high-class problem.
You mentioned some areas where capacity gets tight.
So CapEx just kind of curious -- and maybe this is more a 2016 question than 2015 -- but how we see CapEx relative to say D&amp;A over the next 18 24 months.
John D&amp;A should be in the $113 million $114 million range.
At this point while it's early I would expect capital spending in 2016 to be in that $120 million range again.
We're continuing to be fortunate enough to continue to get new automotive awards that allow us to reinvest in those long-term programs.
As I said earlier in the answer to Dan I don't believe we're near the end of the cycle from a comfort core expansion perspective.
The category of adjustable beds to Dennis's point the category is growing 30% independent of program wins.
So we're really bullish.
As long as the economy stays strong we're ready and willing to invest.
There is about a $30 million annual call on just maintenance capital so that's a given.
It's hard to forecast but we love those investments.
Our people do a great job of getting a return on that.
Then as a follow-up to that and then one additional you've talked in the past about having several hundred million dollars of excess capacity.
I'm wondering if you could sort of update us today where that number sits and sort of what areas it's in.
And then secondly just on the Sealy plants you bought here again high-class problem volumes are good.
But you probably haven't been able to address the consolidation or margins on those or update me on where you are on that process in light of those strong volumes? Thank you.
You broke all of DeSonier's rules.
From an available capacity perspective as you know as you made reference we used to talk in terms of $400 million.
Today we believe that number is south of $200 million probably in the range of $150 million.
We're going to update that analysis internally.
The areas of available capacity at this point are primarily in places like Work Furniture.
There is a little bit available capacity in some of our International Spring.
I assure you there's capacity in Brazil today.
Some available capacity in our home furniture components business.
We'll always have some capacity there because there's always a trade-off between Asian demand and North American demand.
Those would be the biggest areas.
CVP is a place that there's a lot of capacity; some of that we're taking offline now.
So the answer to the Sealy plants is we have been fortunate in that the demand has been greater than the pro forma that our people developed and we just anniversaried the acquisition of those component facilities.
The growth of unit demand and then their switch to comfort core has put us in a position where we're continuing to run the vast majority of those assets.
We just don't know.
We expect that demand will continue to hold.
We're ahead of our financial pro forma pretty significantly.
Our people are doing a great job of executing in a demand environment where we're so pushed for capacity that we probably push some of our people to their elastic limit so we need to continue to bring on capacity.
But we're pleased with that acquisition.
But back to the point of my prepared remarks it is dilutive to Residential margins as we originally forecasted.
John we're anticipating at least two of those consolidations and there will be a one-time cost associated with consolidation when we get to that point but we've have built into our forecast as well.
Our next question is coming from the line of Herb Hardt with Moness Crespi Hardt.
Please proceed with your question.
I would also add my congratulations for a great quarter you folks.
And the question is about Aerospace.
You haven't spoken much about it lately.
If you could give us an update particularly in Europe where I believe a lot of the facilities are now? We don't speak a lot about it.
It's relatively small but boy are we pleased.
Our people are doing a great job of executing on what was a challenged acquisition in France.
As you will remember it wasn't performing well.
They are really doing a great job.
The throughput through that facility has increased significantly.
The business is well-managed.
It is significantly exceeding all the pro formas that we developed at the time of acquisition.
There is a facility in the UK that performs very very well.
It also exceeds all our pro formas.
We're pleased with Aerospace and expect that we will continue to be.
Thanks again for the opportunity to speak about that.
It is well-managed well-executed business.
Herb while there isn't anything at all imminent as I think you know we continue to see that as a growth opportunity through niche-type acquisitions.
So we continue to look at opportunities to add to the facilities that we currently have.
Our next question is coming from the line of Josh Borstein with Longbow.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a follow-up on the microcoils that you touched upon.
Is that included in comfort cores? Yes.
What inning are you in this conversion of those toppers from foam to microcoils? Is this something relatively new? Probably the first inning.
You will see more product developed and placed in lines at the January Las Vegas furniture market.
More mature in Europe than it is in North America.
And so this would be in addition to the comfort coils that are in the center of the bed.
How much additional content might this add to a typical bed? The average unit selling price of one of those toppers is in the range of $60 to $80 depending on the number of coils and the height of the coils so it is a great opportunity for us.
And to your point it's all share gains.
We're replacing a combination of viscoelastic or latex and in some cases just standard polyurethane foams little bit of fiber.
So even in the case where that topper goes in there there will still be -- likely be some sort of comfort product viscoelastic or latex on top of it but significantly less of it Josh.
And then just in Work Furniture could you break out the Chinese operation? Just trying to get a sense for the underlying trends you are seeing in office furniture right now.
Yes Josh this is Dennis.
Are you speaking about the year-over-year comparisons as it relates to the Chinese operation? Right.
So the Chinese operation that is included in your office furniture segment right? Yes we have an operation in China and that is one as we have previously reported that we're dealing with some issues there that we feel that we're close to finally getting our hands around.
But it has been an ongoing issue from us and has to do with operating control of the business.
Apart from that business Dennis can speak to what he feels is a reasonably decent volume in our North American traditional seating business which is the case.
That's correct.
And really looking at the second quarter our unit growth in the U.S.-based operations was very much in line with the BIFMA numbers.
We feel very good about current number of projects that we have.
That's been an area of focus for the team.
Our actual project list is 2 times larger than it was just two years ago and we're experiencing a much higher hit ratio on those projects because they are directly aligned with customer programs.
As opposed to us developing programs and then taking that to the customer base we're actually engaging them sooner in the process and so it has given us a much higher hit ratio.
Okay great.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
Just for seating in general is that a category that you guys are seeing growing this year at all? My sense maybe is seating hasn't been as strong this year as it has been in years past.
It is growing not quite at the level as other parts of the business but definitely seeing overall unit growth and expect that to continue.
Our next question is coming from the line of Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess just kind of a cleanup question for me in terms of some of the other issues that have been hanging fire for a while there.
You took some charges for some legal expenses and there were still a few items left on that I think.
Can you talk a little bit about what the cash impact has been and maybe if there's anything left to clean up on that in terms of those foam lawsuits? Budd as you recall that total accrual as of the end of last year was about $89 million.
Through the second quarter end we had spent about or had unleashed about $20 million of that.
Between now and 12 months from now we will have basically cut loose all of that.
But if you just look in calendar 2015 we think we will probably have another $30 million to $40 million of that accrual that is already on the books paid out is our best guess right now.
And as we sit here today we certainly feel very good about the appropriateness of that accrual level and where it stands and don't anticipate needing to bolster it anymore.
Albeit we all know things change but that's certainly what we feel like today confidently.
Are all those suits now settled Karl? Is everything done on that particular issue? No they are not all settled.
The big ones are in settle mode and just putting final closure on those but we have several smaller ones that are still trending along and in discussions but I would not call them settled yet.
Again the magnitude of those exposures is much more modest than the big cases that we've described as direct and indirect.
Our next question is coming from the line of Fred Speece with Speece Thorson Capital Group.
Please proceed with your question.
I think we can all remember when you put out the $2 number and we finally got there.
Your yield is 2.5% today and it was at almost 9% once so congratulations on the five years.
Has there been any structural change in the company because it is different than it was five years ago -- that would cause you to change the metrics that got you to the $2 number? I obviously didn't expect the economy to do what it did when I made that statement and it was basic algebra.
I thought it might take us to $4.2 billion to get back to $2 and so we were able to get there a little bit earlier on revenue.
But there has been such fundamental change in the portfolio mix over the last few years and in that process we have become -- I know you have read and have heard us say this we've become a lot more definitive on how we spend our capital our shareholders' capital.
And going forward we still have a couple of businesses they are not significant problems at this point but a couple of businesses such as the mechanical tubing and the CVP portion of our business that are likely to find their way to somebody else's ownership.
But going forward we intend to use the same techniques that we have used in the last seven or eight years to grow.
We may grow a little quicker than we had anticipated as things pick up but our margins will continue to go up.
Don't know what the end-all there in margins is.
I think it would be very difficult to get to 14% because of the mix of businesses but certainly we have line of sight through 13%.
So we have got outstanding people running each of our business units.
We're stronger today than we have been in really 15 or 20 years and I think the operating and strategic protocol that we put together will serve us well for the next several years.
Thank you.
It appears there are no additional questions at this time.
So I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional concluding comments.
We will just say thank you.
We appreciate your attention and we will talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host David DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's third quarter conference call.
I'm Dave DeSonier.
And with me today are the following; Dave Haffner our Board Chair and CEO; Karl Glassman who is President and Chief Operating Officer; Matt Flanigan our Executive Vice President and CFO; and Susan McCoy our VP of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Dave Haffner will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release; Karl Glassman will provide segment highlights; Matt Flanigan will discuss financial details address our outlook for the remainder of 2015 and provide some general framework for 2016; and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our call.
We continue to be extremely pleased with our performance this year and again reported strong quarterly results from continuing operations.
During the third quarter we achieved record levels of sales EBIT and earnings per share.
Sales from continuing operations were $1.01 billion and increased 1% over the prior year.
Higher unit volume and acquisitions added 7% to year-over-year sales growth.
These gains were largely offset by raw material-related price decreases and currency impact which combine to reduce sales by 6%.
We continue to benefit from the shift in bedding to Comfort Core springs strong growth of adjustable beds and ongoing content gains and new program awards in automotive.
Importantly nearly all of our businesses again experienced volume growth in the quarter versus strong prior-year comparisons with sales having grown 14% in the third quarter of last year.
Third quarter earnings per share were a record $0.67 up 31% from the $0.51 of adjusted EPS from continuing operations reported in the third quarter last year.
Earnings grew primarily from higher unit volume and pricing discipline.
EBIT increased 33% when compared to last year's adjusted EBIT and EBIT margin improved to 14% up 330 basis points over third quarter last year.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on rolling three-year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long-term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the three-year period that will end on December 31 2015 we have so far generated compound annual TSR of 23% per year which places us in the top-29% of the S&amp;P 500.
I'll now turn the call over to Karl.
Thank you Dave and good morning.
Operationally we again performed very well there in the third quarter.
Margins improved in all four segments and unit volumes grew in most of our major businesses.
However commodity deflation and currency impact continue to mask some of the sales growth.
In the Residential Furnishings segment third quarter total sales decreased 1%.
Same location sales decreased 2% with 5% unit volume growth more than offset by raw material-related price decreases and currency impact.
Sales trends for the major businesses and product categories excluding acquisitions deflation and currency were as follows: U.S.
Spring component dollar sales increased 7%.
Innerspring unit volume grew 4% with Comfort Core up 37% during the quarter.
Box spring unit volume increased 3%.
International Spring sales grew 6%.
Furniture component sales increased 8% with sales in the seating and sofa sleeper businesses up 15% and motion hardware unit volume up 6%.
Sales also increased in Fabric Converting and Geo Components while volume was down marginally in Carpet Cushion.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin increased in the quarter due to the non-reoccurrence of last year's foam litigation expense.
Excluding this prior year charge EBIT improved slightly with the benefit from higher unit volume largely offset by FIFO impact and several smaller factors.
EBIT margin in the segment is also affected by higher adjustable bed pass-through sales and lower-than-segment average margins.
In the Commercial Product segment third quarter total sales increased 26%.
Same-location sales grew 15% primarily from continued strong performance in our adjustable bed and fashion bed business.
Adjustable bed unit volume increased 55% during the quarter.
Work Furniture same-location sales were down slightly in the third quarter primarily from currency impact.
Unit volume in our North American Work Furniture business was up marginally.
In early March we acquired a European private-label manufacturer of high-end upholstered furniture for office commercial and other settings.
This business is complementary to our North American private-label operation and allows us to support our Work Furniture customers as they expand globally.
This acquisition added 11% to the segment sales growth during the third quarter.
The commercial product segment EBIT and EBIT margin increased in the third quarter primarily due to higher sales and improved operation efficiency.
In the Industrial Materials segment third quarter sales decreased 14% largely from steel-related price reductions.
Unit volume decreased slightly with growth in Drawn Wire more than offset by lower trade sales from our rod mill.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter primarily due to cost reductions.
In the Specialized Product segment third quarter sales increased 5% with an approximate 10% volume improvement partially offset by currency impact.
Excluding currency changes automotive sales increased 13% aerospace grew 3% machinery sales were up 8% and CVP grew 7%.
The segment's EBIT and EBIT margin also improved primarily reflecting higher unit volume in the non-reoccurrence of last year's litigation accrual.
I'll now turn the call over to Matt.
Thanks Karl and good morning everyone.
Operating cash flow in the third quarter was $130 million.
For the first nine months of 2015 operating cash flow was $257 million an increase of $41 million or 19% of the prior year primarily due to higher earnings.
Adjusted working capital as a percentage of sales was 9.4% at the end of the third quarter.
Excluding last year's foam litigation accruals some of which are still on our balance sheet and included in current liabilities working capital was a very low 10.5% of annualized sales.
In August we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.32 per share and 2015 marks our 44 consecutive annual dividend increase at a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
At yesterday's closing price of $44.64 our current yield is 2.9%.
We repurchased 900 000 shares of our stock in the third quarter at an average price of $45.61 and issued 200 000 shares largely for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the quarter with net debt to net capital at 36% comfortably within our long-standing targeted range of 30% to 40%.
We also monitor debt-to-EBITDA and at the end of the third quarter our debt was 1.7x our trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA.
Given our strong third quarter results we are raising our full year 2015 EPS guidance and now anticipate record earnings from continuing operations of $2.15 to $2.25 per share.
Our prior EPS range was $2 to $2.15.
With ongoing raw material-related price deflation and currency impact we are lowering sales guidance to a range $3.92 billion to $3.98 billion.
This revised sales range represents a 4% to 5% increase over 2014 and includes an approximate 5% negative impact from deflation and currency.
Based upon this guidance we now anticipate a full year EBIT margin between 11.9% and 12.3% which would be our highest level since 1999.
We expect operating cash flow to exceed $375 million in 2015.
Dividend should require about $170 million of cash and capital expenditures should approximate $110 million for the year.
As has been our practice after funding dividends and capital expenditures remaining cash flow will be prioritized towards competitively advantaged acquisitions.
Potential acquisitions must meet stringent strategic and financial criteria.
Should no acquisitions come to fruition and if excess cash flow is available we have a standing authorization from the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or timetable has been established.
However we currently expect to repurchase about 4 million shares in 2015 and issue approximately 2.2 million shares primarily for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
Regarding 2016's outlook sales growth excluding possible acquisitions or divestitures is expected to be in the mid-single digits next year.
We anticipate continued strong unit volume growth in many of our product categories but this will likely be partially offset by commodity related price deflation since steel prices have continued to decline throughout 2015.
Full year EBIT margin is expected to be roughly in line with 2015 as the margin benefit from higher unit volume next year is likely to be offset by the non-recurrence of the 2015 pricing lag.
This framework assumes that commodity prices will stabilize near current levels.
As is our typical practice we will issue formal 2016 sales and EPS guidance when we announce our fourth quarter results on February 1.
With those comments I'll now turn the call back over to Dave Haffner.
Thanks Matt.
Before I turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier for questions-and-answers and because this would be my last conference call I'd like to make a few personal comments.
I want to express my appreciation to all of the analysts portfolio managers external shareholders and other interested parties for your efforts to best understand Leggett and Platt and its various business units.
It's a great company and is in the best shape it's been in for many years.
To our customers I am forever grateful for the business with which you favor us.
Without you we would have no mission.
To our vendors I'd like to thank you for the long lasting commitment and support that you've provided to us.
And to our employee partners both past and present I want to sincerely thank all of you for everything you've done to make Leggett &amp; Platt the enterprise we all care so much about.
It's been an honor to be your coworker and your leader.
I will miss you.
Thanks to all for participating in the discussion today.
And I'll now turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer your questions.
In order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask only one question and then yield to the next participant.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to reenter the queue and we will answer those questions as well.
Kevin we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Keith Hughes from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
The question I had was on automotive another good quarter from automotive and the problems in China and things of that nature.
Could you just sort of state what your exposure there and what's your outlook for the automotive market is in the near term? Our exposure to automotive in China and Greater Asia is certainly is broad based.
We have large shares.
There is a lot of productive capacity that exists in China for components that are then shipped to North America and to Europe.
But we remain very very bullish on automotive in general and Automotive Asia that the current IHS expectation is that production in China will grow 1.3% this year and 4% next.
Global major market growth for next year is forecasted to be 2.8% and really if you run it out over the next three to four years it aggregates to an average of 3%.
So with our position from a market perspective our ability to sell our componentry into other applications in the vehicle and our continued content gains in seating we feel very very strong.
And as we said units were up 13% in the quarter and we expect that to continue.
And what is your percentage exposure in China for that domestic market of your automotive? I don't know off the top of my head.
It doesn't vary that much in China as compared to the other markets.
I just don't know.
Our next question is coming from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
This is Bobby actually filling in for Budd.
And I guess first off Dave congratulations on your strong success and your tenure there.
It's been great getting to work with you and more importantly getting to know you over the last 2.5 years here that I've been with Budd.
And then my question really is just kind of more of a high level question.
We've heard some commentary from other companies this earning season about industry growth and kind of demand taking a pause in September and October.
I mean I was just curious when you look at your end markets today versus maybe how you view them six months ago what's kind of change and what's kind of your outlook on end-market demand? Bobby if you look at it at a macro level that from a unit demand perspective it hasn't changed much.
We knew that we were up against some very very difficult comps in the back half of this year.
That continues.
We continue to be bullish.
Certainly we've had some impact from deflationary perspective but from a unit perspective we really feel good about our share in the market and the way the markets are positioned.
The consumer continues to be pretty confident.
The confidence statistics are a little choppy.
Housing same thing you know that we continue to see housing growth.
Again month to month might be a little choppy but the trends are positive in both ways.
So we feel pretty darn good as evidenced by the commentary from Matt on the kind of the first glance at 2016.
We're forecasting 5%-ish unit growth.
So things are good.
And maybe I could sneak one more.
And Karl can you give us a little detail on the innerspring breakout as you typically do on a monthly cadence? Again it softened a little bit purely from a comp perspective but in July units were up 11% August 3% September down about 1%.
And again September of last year was a very very strong month if you remember.
So from a ISPA reporting perspective they have not issued the report for September.
I suspect that they will after all the public companies release at the end of next week.
Their August number was I believe units was flattish and mattresses is up three-tenth of a percent so we exceeded their summary of market.
We expect to continue to do so in the future.
Our next question today is coming from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Congratulations on good quarter and David congratulations to you on your retirement.
It was pleasure working with over the years.
You're leaving the company in great shape.
I guess a few questions.
Let me on ask my one and get back in the queue I guess.
But you talked at least some preliminary terms about 2016 and mid-single digit growth.
I guess clarification.
Does that mid single-digits include the FX and deflation? And then secondly I guess just when do we anniversary easier compares with respect to the deflation in currency in which quarter of '16? David that's a forecast of 5% unit growth.
From a currency perspective we'll anniversary most of that by the end of this year.
From a deflationary perspective we will not anniversary it in calendar '16.
And you know the steel markets very very well.
Scrap rated off in October.
We expect that there will be some selling price deflation in the remainder the fourth quarter and from a component perspective into the first quarter of next year.
So from a comp perspective we'll be dealing with it virtually all of next year.
Our next question today is coming from John Baugh from Stifel.
My first question pertains to adjustables.
When do we start lapping some of the program gains there or maybe asking it in a different way any kind of sense of where comps if there were such a thing on adjustables are and where you expect them to go over the next four or some quarters? We have anniversaried the pick up of those programs.
Interestingly enough we actually did that July 1 so to experience that strong 55% unit growth in the third quarter is notable.
We believe based on industry statistics as you'll remember that ISPA published adjustable bed information for last year and forecasted the industry or indicated the industry was growing just over 30%.
We expect that growth going forward.
And we expect with our market leading position and our innovation that we'll continue to lead that market.
And on that product line I understand the pass-through so the residential that dilutes margin.
But when we think about the overall margin to that consolidated company is that a trade down in line with the average trade up? It would be just slightly aggregate everything together just slightly below the corporate average.
It is very very good business.
And then my last question quickly just elaborate a little bit.
I understand the price lag but maybe just talk us through the quarters this year and the benefits this year and kind of how that plays out into '16? Think in terms of about a 90-day lag.
So as steel has continued to deflate through the year really started in the fourth quarter of '14 that there is at the rod and wire level there is a shorter than 90-day lag.
At the component level it averages about 90 days.
So based on what we know today and forecasting steel pricing is a guess at this point but we expect that some time in first quarter of next year that everything will levelize.
I keep thinking that steel can't get any further deeper and scrap cost can't fall anymore and you heard what I said about October deflation.
But at some point you've read a lot of information out of China.
Even the Chinese admit that they're not making money in the steel industry.
It's a tough business right now.
If it wasn't for our connectivity to value-added products it would be challenging for us.
So it will all true-up we think sometime in the first or second quarter of next year John but I just frankly don't know.
So does that mean to be clear we have tailwinds still from this event Q1 Q2 but then we face kind of a year-over-year headwind in the back half of the year? Is that a right way to think about it? If pricing stabilizes in the fourth quarter we will actually kind of rectify to a means sometime at the end of the first quarter of next year but again I don't know that time.
Our next question is coming from Herb Hardt from Monness Crespi Hardt.
David I'll echo the comments of the others and thank you for all the great work and good luck on the next venture.
My question has to do with operating rates.
If you could give us some sense of either the company as a whole or by segment what level of capacity because with no acquisitions 5% unit volume that should totally get close to maximum capability? It varies as you know by segment.
If we aggregate everything together the way that we currently measure capacity utilization which is based on a seven-day week 24-hour day which probably isn't typical to most were about 65% where probably 80% is at max.
So in every quarter in the last five quarters our utilization rates have increased in every segment.
They have increased most probably in commercial as we picked up some volume but we're underutilized in commercials particularly Work Furniture but the trends are probably more positive there than any place else.
And then we have to start to separate the segments and that we're probably fully utilized in bedding components right now.
If you think in terms of the investment that we've made in Comfort Core but we're underutilized in some of the open coil products because there is switch out.
We don't expect to be utilized in those open core.
So it's variable.
The trend is positive in all the segments.
I don't feel a significant need to add capacity in most of our business units with the exception of automotive where we're dealing with significant growth rate and specifically comfort core as it relates to bedding.
Adjustables we've added a lot of capacity during the year.
I think that we're in really good shape there at the end of the quarter where now a forth facility coming online in Florida.
So we feel pretty good about things where we're positioned.
Herb 13 of the 17 units saw meaningful improvement in their capacity utilization.
Our next question is a follow-up from Keith Hughes from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Just turning back in to the adjustables.
Again fantastic numbers this quarter particularly given you've anniversaried the big program.
I guess my question is with the strong growth.
Is most of that being driven by new programs new customer wins or is that just positives from existing customers? Today Keith in the third quarter it was market growth that we're selling the right people.
At the same time the category is growing significantly.
And are you seeing your price point there? I mean your dollars are well ahead of units clearly in the numbers that you've given earlier.
As we go into '16 this trend seems to be continuing.
Do you think that will ever level out as some lower end items start to move up or will this price units just remain in place? I think that we'll continue to see growth at the premium price points.
The high end bedding business is very very strong but we'll also see some growth in adjustables at more promotional price points.
That's what we've seen in calendar 2015.
We think that the market is probably only 5% penetrated from an attachment rate of all mattresses produced but there's probably a 50% attachment rate currently at the ultra premium price points.
I know those producers expect that they don't grow that.
But the middle price points the promotional price points will probably never have an adjustable bed associated with them.
But the high price points we'll continue to see growth.
Virtually everything mattress sold above $599 is now adjustable-friendly giving the consumer much more choice.
That's a pretty significant change in the last 24 months.
But still most of your growth currently is being at the premium end is that correct? Yes.
At a rated growth it would probably be highest in the middle price points.
Our next question is coming from Daniel Moore with CJS Securities.
I wanted to just kind of revisit the guidance again for '16 -- not guidance but the initial framework.
I think you said that volumes will be up mid-single digits but again some headwind from input cost.
So does that indicate more of a low-single digit kind of overall revenue or how should we think about that? At this point Dan I would kind of look at the middle of our current 2015 guidance put 5% sales growth on top of it so we're assuming that steel levelizes.
So use 5% on top of the mid-point of our guidance that's the best we can do at this point.
That's good.
I wanted to make sure that the answer to the prior question I wasn't reading incorrectly.
That's fine.
I wanted to turn the attention to cash flow a little bit.
I think you said at least $375 million cash from ops and that includes some significant litigation so you're probably approaching $425 million $450 million in sort of adjusted.
As long as you're feeling generous and giving outlooks for '16 maybe talk a little bit about CapEx and working capital.
Is that a good run rate for cash generation when we think about '16? I think yes the answer to that question is yes so something north of $400 million.
We would certainly anticipate to be embodied in the guidance and the framework we just gave for 2016.
In terms of capital spending something maybe around a $120 million might be a good estimate but again we'll freshen that up as we get to February 1 when we provide our full year best guess at that point in time.
And in terms of working capital trends you shouldn't see anything any differently than what has been a very good management of those categories.
I will mention one thing that litigation accrual we've talked a lot about.
At the end of last year we had about $90 million approximately on our balance sheet.
By the end of this year we'll have about $40 million and they'll probably still be on our balance sheet.
So the timing of when that rolls off as a current liability is just a notable phenomenon if you will in our cash flow both this year and next year.
Said another way we expect the $40 million that again is approximately estimated to be on our balance sheet at the end of the year will be paid out in cash during the first half of 2016.
And then just longer term the margin growth and expansion we've seen really exceptional over the last couple of years 14% margin this quarter and up to 12% for the full year.
I know we're flat next year.
We've got some tough headwinds.
Just help us think about the operating leverage and where you think margins can go over the mid-term maybe the next two to three years? With the current businesses that we own 12.5% is probably a good number.
If we execute on a divestitures that we have queued up right now we should pick up about 50 basis points.
So we're sniffing 13% and we feel really pretty good about that so I don't think we need to give you guidance on February 1.
It seems like we just did that but yes that's our math 12% to 12.5% on what we own today.
Give them an inch they will take a mile.
What can I tell you? You're never going to get a thing if you don't ask for it Dan.
Our next question today is coming from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
You've got pretty strong cash flow characteristics.
You talked earlier about the acquisition queue and your stringent criteria.
I'm just wondering if there's anything that looks like it may soon clear that if there's anything imminent.
And how 2016 might shape up as an acquisition growth year? We expect that we will close on some relatively small but important acquisitions in the coming months.
In terms of sizeable there is nothing in the queue.
But I don't at all want to telegraph that -- we're always going through analysis.
We feel really good about the acquisition pipeline right now but there is nothing really in line.
We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
End of Q&amp;A We appreciate your attention and we'll talk to you again I guess February 1 February 2.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the Leggett &amp; Platt Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Dave DeSonier Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations for Leggett &amp; Platt.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for taking part in Leggett &amp; Platt's fourth quarter conference call.
I'm Dave DeSonier and with me today are the following; Karl Glassman who is President and CEO; Matt Flanigan our Executive VP and CFO; and Susan McCoy our Vice President of Investor Relations.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Karl will start with a summary of the major statements we made in yesterday's press release and provide segment highlights; Matt will discuss financial details and address our outlook for 2016 and finally the group will answer any questions that you have.
Perry Davis who is Senior Vice President of the Company and President of the Residential Furnishing segment is also joining us this morning to participate in Q&amp;A.
This conference is being recorded for Leggett &amp; Platt and is copyrighted material.
This call may not be transcribed recorded or broadcast without our express permission.
A replay is available from the IR portion of Leggett's website.
We posted to the IR portion of the website a set of PowerPoint slides that contain summary financial information along with segment details.
Those slides supplement the information we discuss on this call including non-GAAP reconciliations.
I need to remind you that remarks today concerning future expectations events objectives strategies trends or results constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results or events may differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements.
For a summary of these risk factors and additional information please refer to yesterday's press release and the section in our 10-K entitled forward-looking statements.
I'll now turn the call over to Karl Glassman.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our fourth quarter call.
As we reported yesterday we are extremely pleased with our 2015 results and expect continued strong performance in 2016.
For the full year 2015 we achieved record sales from continuing operations record EBIT and record earnings per share.
Sales grew 4% for the year to 3.92 billion higher unit volume of 6% and acquisitions 3% added 9% to sales growth.
These improvements were partially offset by raw material related price decreases and currency impact which combined to reduce sales by 5%.
The full year sales benefited from ongoing content gains and new program awards in automotive the continued shift in bedding to comfort core spring and strong growth in our adjustable beds.
Full year adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.34 up 31% from $1.78 in the prior year.
Earnings grew primarily from higher unit volume and pricing discipline.
Adjusted EBIT grew 31% and adjusted EBIT margin increased 270 basis points to 12.9%.
In the fourth quarter sales from continuing operations were $945 million down 1% from the prior year higher unit volume 3% and acquisitions 1% added 4% but were more than offset by raw material related price decreases and currency impact which combined to reduce sales by 5%.
Earnings performance was stronger than expected during the fourth quarter.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.64 compared to $0.41 in the same quarter last year for an increase of 56%.
Adjusted earnings grew primarily from pricing discipline higher unit volume and lower stock compensation expense.
Additional decreases in steel cost late in the year led to a larger than expected LIFO benefit in the fourth quarter.
While the LIFO impact is typically offset within the segments as the higher cost inventory flows through earnings that offset did not fully occur in the fourth quarter.
Because of the year end timing of the cost decreases that triggered the additional benefit part of the offsetting segment level impact will occur in early 2016.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBIT increased 44% and adjusted EBIT margin improved a 13.8% up 440 basis points over fourth quarter last year.
Late in the year we completed the divestitures of the steel tubing business the final store fixtures operation which had been reported in discontinued operations and a small part of the commercial vehicle products business.
Portfolio management will remain a strategic priority as we move forward.
Over the past few years we have enhanced our portfolio and improved our margins by growing our stronger performing businesses and by exiting businesses that struggled to consistently deliver acceptable margins in returns.
Now on to the segment details; for the full year margins improved in all four segments and unit volume grew in nearly all of our major businesses.
However commodity deflation and currency impact offset some of this full year sales growth.
For the fourth quarter margins improved in three of the four segments with commercial product segment margins flat with last year.
Volume growth continued in many of our businesses but the offsetting impact from commodity deflation and currency also continued throughout the quarter.
In the residential furnishing segment fourth quarter sales decreased 3% with unit volume growth more than offset by raw material related price decreases and currency impacts.
Sales trends for the major businesses and product categories excluding deflation in currency were as follows: US Spring component dollar sales increased 4% Inner Spring unit volume grew 3% with Comfort Core up 55% during the quarter Box Spring unit volume increased 7%.
International Spring sales grew 10% Furniture component sales were down slightly with sales in the seating and sofa sleeper business up 4% and motion hardware unit volume down 1%.
Volume also grew in Geo Components and decreased in Carpet Cushion.
Segment EBIT and EBIT margin increased in the quarter from significantly lower foam litigation expense.
Excluding these charges EBIT and EBIT margin improved primarily from pricing discipline higher unit volume and lower stock compensation expense.
For the full year total sales in the segment grew 5%.
Higher unit volume and acquisitions increased sales by 10% but were partially offset by the commodity deflation and currency impact.
US Inner Spring units grew 8% with Comfort Core units up 51% for the full year.
We expect strong growth in this category to continue from our introduction of new Comfort Core products and our customers growing use of these components in their product lines.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased 11% and EBIT margin improved 50 basis points to 10.2% primarily from higher unit volume and pricing discipline.
In the commercial product segment fourth quarter total sales increased 10% primarily from an acquisition completed early in the year.
Same location sales were down slightly with unit volume growth and adjustable bed and fashion bed more than offset by lower volume and work furniture and currency impact.
Our acquisition in this segment was a European private label manufacturer of high-end upholstered furniture for office commercial and other settings.
This business is complementary to our North American private label operation and allows us to support our work furniture customers as they expand globally.
The segments EBIT increased slightly during the quarter and EBIT margin was flat with the prior year.
For the full year total sales in the segment grew 21% with same location sales up 12%.
Strong performance in our adjustable bed and fashion bed businesses drove the majority of the same location sales growth.
Adjustable bed units grew 51% for the full year.
The segments EBIT increased 37% and EBIT margin improved 80 basis points to 6.8% primarily from higher sales and improved operational efficiency.
In the industrial materials segment fourth quarter sales were down 16% from steel related price decreases at lower unit volume and drawn wire and steel tubing.
EBIT and EBIT margin increased during the quarter with cost improvements partially offset by a $3 million loss on the divestiture of the steel tubing business.
For the full year total sales in this segment decreased 5% with higher unit volume and drawn wire more than offset by steel related price reductions and lower trade sales from our Rod mill.
The segments EBIT for the year increased 17% and EBIT margin improved 120 basis points to 6.5% as cost improvements more than offset an impairment charge of $6 million and divestiture loss of $3 million related to the steel tubing business.
In the specialized product segment fourth quarter sales increased 7% with a 12% volume improvement partially offset by currency impact.
Excluding currency changes automotive sales increased 14% machinery sales grew 15% and commercial vehicle product sales were up 11% aerospace sales were down slightly in the quarter.
The segments increase in EBIT margin improved 250 basis points primarily from higher volumes.
Full year total sales in the segment grew 4% with a 9% volume increase partially offset by currency impact.
Strong performance in our automotive and machinery businesses drove the majority of the sales growth.
Excluding the currency changes automotive sales grew 13% for the full year.
The segments EBIT increased 24% and EBIT margin improved 260 basis points to 16.3% primarily from higher sales.
I will now turn the call over to Matt Flanigan.
Thanks Karl and good morning everyone.
In 2015 we generated operating cash flow of $359 million after paying 82 million to settle foam litigation.
Full year cash flow came in slightly below our prior forecast due to the timing of the litigation payments with a major part of those occurring just before year end.
The substantial majority of these cases have now been settled and paid.
We ended the year with adjusted working capital as a percentage of sales of 9.5%.
In November we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share and yesterdays closing price of $41.58 the current yield is 3.1% which is one of the highest dividend yields among the 50 companies that comprise the S&amp;P 500 Dividend Aristocrats.
We repurchased 700 000 shares of our stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $44.36 and issued 200 000 shares largely for employee benefit plans and option exercises.
For the full year we repurchased 4.3 million shares at an average price of $45.72 and issued 2.2 million shares.
Our financial base remains very strong and this gives us considerable flexibility when making capital and investment decisions.
We ended the year with net debt-to-net capital at 34.5% comfortably within our long standing targeted range of 30% to 40% we also debt-to-EBITDA.
At year end our debt was 1.5 times our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA.
We assess our overall performance by comparing our total shareholder return to that of peer companies on a rolling three year basis.
Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&amp;P 500 over the long term which we believe will require an average TSR of 12% to 15% per year.
For the three year period that just ended on December 31 2015 we met our goal of producing top third TSR.
We generated compound annual TSR of 20% per year over these past three years significantly better than the S&amp;P 500 15% annual TSR for the same time period.
Before we discuss our 2016 guidance details it may be helpful to remind everyone of the major macro drivers for our business.
Consumer confidence is the primary indicator that we monitor since it most significantly influences demand for bedding and furniture.
Total housing turnover also affects demand in these businesses but to a lesser degree than consumer confidence.
Broadly favorable trends and these two indicators should result in positive market conditions for at least half of our revenue base.
Across our diversified businesses we have no direct exposure to the oil industry; however lower energy prices have historically been positive for demand in our residential markets with consumers having more discretionary income available to spend on larger ticket purchases.
Lower fuel prices also typically support SUV and large vehicle demand which is beneficial to our automotive business.
Geographically our largest exposure by far is the US followed by Northern Europe.
We produce in China but the majority of our product is exported in either component form or in our customers finished product for consumption in North America or Europe.
Chinese consumption patterns impact only about 3% Leggetts total sales.
Our automotive business is the only part of our portfolio that is meaningfully exposed to domestic Chinese demand with about 20% of its revenue base remaining in that market.
While Chinese auto production slowed in 2015 the market still grew 3% or roughly in line with growth in both North America and Europe.
As Karl mentioned earlier our automotive business grew its unit volume by 13% in 2015.
Current automotive industry forecast anticipate production in the major markets to grow by approximately 4% in 2016.
We expect to continue outperforming global auto production by at least 10 percentage points for the foreseeable future based upon content gains and new programs that weve been awarded.
With this collective backdrop for 2016 we once again expect sales growth which should lead to another year of strong margins and earnings per share.
Sales from continued operations are expected to be 3.9 billion to 4.1 billion or flat to 5% higher than in 2015.
Unit volume growth should be in the middle to high single-digits with continued strong demand in many of our product categories and improvement expected in the majority of our end markets.
As partial offsets to the volume growth sales guidance includes a 2% to 3% reduction from commodity deflation and a 2% decrease from the steel tubing divestiture completed in late December.
We expect 2016 earnings per share of $2.30 to $2.50.
Bridging from 2015 strong performance this guidance assumes that unit volume growth will generate typical 25% to 30% incremental margins but that benefit is expected to be largely offset by the non-recurrence of the 2015 pricing lag.
Based upon this guidance we currently expect a full year EBIT margin between 12.7% and 13% roughly in line with our 2015 performance.
Our guidance assumes that commodity prices primarily steel stabilize near current levels.
We expect to generate operating cash of approximately $450 million in 2016.
Dividend should require about $175 million of cash and capital expenditures should approximate a $130 million for the year.
Our target range for dividend pay-out is 50% to 60% of earnings.
Actual pay-out has been higher in recent years and as a result dividend growth has been modest at about 3% per year.
With our strong earnings growth in 2015 we are now comfortably within our targeted pay-out range.
This gives us greater flexibility to consider future dividend growth that more closely aligns with our EPS growth.
As has been our practice after funding capital expenditures and dividends remaining cash flow will be prioritized towards competitively advantaged acquisitions.
Potential acquisitions must meet stringent strategic and financial criteria.
Should no acquisitions come to fruition and if excess cash flow is available we have a standing authorization from the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year.
No specific repurchase commitment or time table has been established; however we currently expect to repurchase 4 million to 5 million shares in 2016 and issue approximately 2 million shares primarily for employee benefit plans.
With those comments Ill turn the call back over to Dave DeSonier.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We thank you for your attention and we will be glad to answer your question.
[Operator Instructions].
Kevin we are ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] our first question toady is coming from Daniel Moore from CJS Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you for the color regarding the LIFO benefit and maybe is it possible to quantify the unusual margin benefit that you did experience in Q4 and how much of that you might if commodity costs stabilizes might be a reversal in to Q1 and early 2016? Yeah its a good question Dan.
The way that I would encourage you to think about it is that in the fourth quarter we recognized $15 million more in LIFO benefit than we anticipated at the end of the third quarter.
That was caused by the steel deflation that took place in November and December.
Because of the timing of that deflation heading very late in the year and in fact in the back half of the quarter a meaningful part of that $15 million increase in LIFO was not offset during the quarter and in fact will carry over into the early part of 2016 with a lot of that being in the first quarter.
As you know commodity moves impact LIFO pretty quickly and it takes a little bit more time to work through the segments.
We have to have usually a quarter maybe a little bit more than that for those higher cost materials to roll through and for us to get to a point where we can actually revalue our inventories and neither of those things fully happened in the fourth quarter so a part of it would have been offset but not all of it and that will carry over into the first quarter.
A quick follow-up in terms of the revenue guide the zero to 5% any sense of how you expect that growth to play out over the year.
Is H1 likely to be a little bit softer given the commodity cost inflation just wanted to get a sense of how you see that layering in over the year.
We will have some variation in the quarter because of the year-over-year deflation.
I know weve already said this but we expect our unit volume growth to be strong again in 2016.
Were looking at mid to high-single digit unit volume growth.
We do expect deflation to offset part of that and we now also have the impact from the divestiture.
When you look at our current full year guidance out flat to 5% and compare that to the framework that we put out there in October whats changed is basically the divestiture impact and maybe a little bit more deflation.
Otherwise were basically in line with what we thought at the end of October.
So taking that through the quarters I would encourage you first to decide where you want to be in that full year flat to 5% range and then in the first quarter subtract 300 basis points from that full year growth rate in the second quarter subtract the 100 basis points and in the third and fourth quarters add 200 basis points each.
So at the midpoint of the guidance range which would be about 2% to 3% growth in the first quarter wed be looking at sales that were flat to down 1% in the second quarter wed be looking at sales that would be up 1% to 2% and in each of the third and fourth quarters we should be in that 4% to 5% up range.
You didnt specifically ask about margins but Ill go ahead and throw that in here too.
Qualitatively in the first half of 2016 we should be ahead of 15 EBIT margins in both the first and second quarter.
Third and fourth quarters in 15 obviously we had very strong margin performance in both of those quarters.
We will likely be below those margin levels in the back half of the year with a full year margin essentially flat which is what we already said.
And Ill just reiterate that LIFO overhang if you will or the FIFO impact in this segment will most significantly impact our first quarter with the bulk of that being in our residential segment with a little bit more in industrial.
And next question today is coming from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
My question really reflects just basically adjustables and I know the adjustables were up 7% in the quarter may be Karl if you could go and give us a little bit of the color on the cadence during the quarter or what was going on with adjustables and maybe what the outlook is for that in 2016? The adjustable business had a wonderful year we said we are up 51% in units.
We expect significant growth in 2016.
We believe the markets growing in excess of 30% so things are good.
What happened in the fourth quarter as you know we have a very large customer who did a wonderful job of giving color on their third quarter call forecasting fourth quarter saying that they were going through an ERP implementation? That implementation they said pulled some volume forward in the third quarter which we experienced and softened fourth quarter.
The volume or our demand strengthened as the quarter went on.
So as I said we remained very very bullish on the category.
Our next question today is coming from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on a good quarter and again thanks for all the details and the colors its very helpful.
Karl wonder if I could just talk at a high level some of the manufacturers have announced a shift in product life cycle in bedding to three years from two years and it appears to be good for them.
But just trying to ascertain whether its good for a key supplier like yourself? Perry do you want to --.
Yeah this is Perry Davis.
I can tell you that those life cycle [changes are dramatic] [ph] both for the manufacturers and for the retailers and I believe that this will be received positively.
The every two year refresh is almost a constant cycle of change for the manufacturers and with the amount of floor samples and sampling and product testing and everything that goes with that as well as changes retailers as far as [indiscernible] some advertising I think it will be received positively and looked upon as an adequate time spend for any new product launch to be placed in to the market.
Yeah David the fact that there would be an expectation of more substantive innovation at each launch which is good for us as you know that we really are the driver of industry innovation in the bedding industry.
So I agree with Perry I see this as a good thing.
And just as an add-on if you could just go back to Budds question talk about the cadence within the quarter that would be helpful.
David I could address that unit shipments in the quarter if you look by period so in October shipments were off about 5% in November up around 11 and about 3% up in December.
And for the quarter it was up about 3%.
Now if you go back and you look at the ISPA numbers for that period and we dont have the December numbers yet obviously but in October ISPA reported a negative 2% and then a positive 5 in November.
And David I want to take an opportunity to let all the listeners know that ISPA has made a decision that we believe is very wise and thats the elimination of monthly reporting.
There are some irregularities in monthly the timing of holidays the pre-shipped and pre-build to holidays.
We only gave monthly quarter then we started it sometime ago because ISPA had.
We are going to discontinue that because we think that it just isnt sensible for anyone to make investment decisions on what happens from a month-to-month basis.
So we are happy to give you the color as Perry just did with the fourth quarter but we just dont think its prudent to do that in the future.
Our next question today is coming from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Question is on the furniture work it was down 2% in the quarter.
Just a commentary on trends there I know you did fairly well in the seating but some negative offsets.
Keith this is Perry.
There are negative offsets with some deflationary pressures.
I did a quick check of 2016 obviously were early in the game here but during the first three weeks of this year on a per day basis our furniture mechanism shipments are slightly up just under 2% but it was slightly down in the fourth quarter on furniture hardware units of about 1% and then further offset by deflationary pressures.
Are the manufacturers are they saying it is kind of a flattish demand I guess we average it out is that what they are expecting for this year or --.
Theres some noise in the numbers.
If you go back a year ago with the port strikes and the shutdowns of the port there was actually a lot of business that we picked up incrementally last year because we have a domestic presence that would not necessarily repeat this year.
So given the fact that our unit shipments are as strong as they are to start off the year that says something I think given the year-on-year comps and what happened with all the port issue last year.
Final question adjustable I know you answered Budds questions earlier.
But youve had several launches at the Las Vegas show.
In this quarter were there the new customers playing a meaningful role in terms of the shipment.
In the fourth quarter Keith.
Fourth quarter yes.
There was continued -- I wouldnt say some much new customer theres been some good retail placement but the industry continues to grow.
That we feel that we are the largest producer in the category and the quarter was good absent the ERP noise and we expect that to continue.
So we believe that we are well positioned.
Our next question today is coming from John Baugh from Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
I was curious of the office furniture segment.
I saw the 5% I believe same location decline.
Could you speak maybe more specifically to the trends in the quarter? What you are seeing may be in end markets there or a specific customer their performance and then maybe the outlook for 16 in the segment.
Thank you.
The majority of our organic softness in the quarter was really outside the US which is thus most impacted by the currency issues and there were some mixed issues a little bit of softness in some domestic finish furniture.
But from an industry perspective this is forecasting 2016 growth in the 5% to 6% range.
We feel thats appropriate and we feel like we should grow at that rate from an organic perspective.
Remember that we wont comp the European acquisition until April.
So first quarter should grow to little greater growth than that.
And may be just a quick follow-up any thoughts about how aggressive or non-aggressive you may be towards the acquisitions this coming year.
You have even more free cash flow to deal with.
Thank you.
Ive got to give a shout out to our M&amp;A team.
They had a fantastic year in 2015 and to close the European business that was - that acquisition was really strategic and then to conclude divestitures to get us completely out of the stores fixtures business which will declare victory on that one to sell part of CVP and then on Christmas Eve to get the steel tubing divestitures done.
All the while they were looking at a number of acquisitions doing very deep dives and now in 2016 continuing to look at some additional divestiture work and look at acquisitions.
But I will say and we will be acquisitive as a matter of fact I have every expectation that well close a small aerospace acquisition later this month but its small.
Our current stated growth target is 4% to 5% or really two times expectation of GDP growth.
When we look at our strategic planned forecast for the next three years so 16 17 and 18 were looking today at a greater than 7% CAGR so three times our expectation of GDP.
So we feel really good about where we are positioned from an organic perspective.
So that allows us to be very systemic in our analysis of acquisition.
So youre right well throw up a lot of cash how we apply that cash well go through the normal usage.
Well continue to invest in organic growth.
You see CapEx forecast for the first time a little bit above depreciation and amortization thats an investment that we see in automotive and continued growth in US and European Comfort Core capability.
We dont talk about Europe much; Europeans bring out a fantastic quarter in this year and is sold out.
So long winded answer but we will continue to be acquisitive but we have the luxury of continuing to be disciplined.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question today is coming from Herb Hardt from Monness Crespi Hardt.
Please proceed with your question.
I have two questions actually one is Aerospace was down and is that sort of a timing issue on shipments or something because its been a pretty good growth area for you? Herb the fourth quarter was a little bit of soft showed a little bit of softness and we believe that there was a little bit of inventory true-up at the end of the year.
Weve seen pretty significant strength of recovery in January.
The aerospace industry is always a little bit choppy but our people have just done a tremendous job of execution in Aerospace.
That French business that we bought a year and a half or two years ago now has performed well well above any of our expectations.
So we continue to remain very very bullish and expect from time to time therell be a little bit of softness.
The other question regards residential and the consumer.
If you look at results in the last four or five months the high-end people like [Tiffany] have had problems the toy industry the apparel industry its pretty mixed all over the place and Im just curious as to how you see this year playing out other that auto which youve already [slashed]? Herb this is Perry Davis.
We went through a number of years as youll recall where there was a real bifurcation in the market and there was a lot of low end product being sold also at the high end but not much in the middle.
That seems to be where our business suffered during those years.
Right now and with the product introductions we recently saw at Las Vegas we think theres room for growth at both the mid and high end part of the market.
Were seeing average unit retail prices introductions there some real strong introductions and we believe that while the low end part of the business will remain we think theres more upside in the mid to upper end price points.
Weighing on a little bit to Perrys comment the Las Vegas market that concluded last week in my opinion was the strongest showing that Leggetts had at any bedding furniture market.
The placement of product Comfort Core primarily but the addition of Comfort Core around the perimeter of mattresses and in the comfort layer shows us that we will have significant bedding growth content gains.
The industry association is forecasting 4% unit growth.
Our expectation is well exceed that.
So we remain very very bullish on the domestic bedding industry and to be repetitive on the European betting industry where we saw 28% unit growth last year.
And next question today is coming from Allen Zwickler from First Manhattan.
Two questions thats totally unrelated; one in the auto side to what extent or what percentage had to be there? Okay either to what extent or to what percentage would you say that your auto business is designed in to a particular vehicle versus ordering year-by-year depending on the style if you understand where Im going.
Allen all of our auto business other than a little bit of cable business is specifically designed in to programs that are awarded a long time in advance.
Our automotive team did a great job last year of landing awards that will primarily start to ship the end of 2017 and be fully ramped 2018 and 19.
So we are designed in to programs that have very long tenures.
And Allen this is Matt.
Id just add that thats why theres such good competence in our ability to say we will grow 10 percentage points better than the market over the next several years because of that visibility on those programs.
Well thats what I was getting at because 10% in the auto business is a nose bleed.
And secondly and I didnt look at the slides on the website I apologize.
But just if we were to look at operating profits versus operating profits from 15 to 16 and we get rid of what is a typical for Leggett with noise.
What would you say your growth is expected to be based on the projection that you made? Our operating earnings growth would pretty much be synchronized with the adjusted EPS growth year-over-year.
So this past year as you all know our EBITDA for example was about 600 million and it will be up low to mid-single digits based upon all sorts of things that might occur obviously there in 2016 is a base line expectation.
Okay so all else being equal thats what we should expect.
I mean if one was to project out what your growth is if you know what Im saying X what were a lot of items.
Theres nothing in the [dial] thats changed very much as usual is that correct? That is correct.
So youre saying youre going to grow may be a couple of percent year-over-year on the operating line before theres any changes in the tax rate or interest expense or anything like that that we should be aware of.
Nothing dramatic.
Our expected tax rate this year as you know and they are on the slide I know youll have a change to reference those.
Okay I apologize then.
Ill look at it.
29% is our expected tax rate this year thats a little bit higher than it has been at previous year.
But we hope there is a bias to bring that down well see.
But the big answer to your question is no we dont expect any significantly dramatic changes in some of those operating earnings aspects this year.
But its [reversed].
Our next question today is coming from Daniel Moore from CJS Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
I know you touched on auto quite a bit but just curious you mentioned the 4% projection in global growth is that consistent with what youre seeing in the market place kind of on the ground.
Obviously youre taking a ton of share but how much confidence do you have in that projection based on what youre hearing from customers.
Dan at this point we feel pretty confident that that 4% is IHS data for major market growth which is really significant growth appreciation the 14 to 15.
To break it down North America at 4% and Greater China at almost 7% we have confidence in that data.
I know that theres too early in the year to say that we see anything different and again its important that there are content gains within the vehicle but market share gains arent really that available to us and that we believe that we touch about 85% of the vehicles produced in the major markets in the world.
So we have really good visibility.
Thats very helpful.
I misspoke on content versus share but thanks for your color.
Weve reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
Id like to turn floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you for your participation.
We do appreciate it and well talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude todays teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful.
We thank you for your participation today.