Good day and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager of DuPont Fabros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this call -- conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued last night which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
As noted in last night's press release we continued to deliver solid quarterly financial results which Mark will discuss later in the call.
Since leasing is our primary focus and catalyst for growth I would like to begin with the leasing update.
Since the beginning of the first quarter to date we have executed 5 leases totaling 6.7 megawatts of critical load.
We have signed 3 leases within the third quarter totaling 5 megawatts.
One lease is for 570 kilowatts in Phase I of New Jersey and is with a new social media tenant.
The second lease is for 540 kilowatts in Phase I of ACC6 and is with an existing Internet tenant.
The third is a pre-lease for 3.9 megawatts.
This pre-lease is with an existing tenant in our Chicago facility.
To date we have pre-leased 71% of Phase II of Chicago expect to achieve a 12% unlevered return.
We have no secured debt on the facility.
Currently Chicago is the market that is leasing up the fastest.
Our data center provides tenants who need to be in the Midwest with an optimal and scalable solution to their requirements while being able to serve a vast geographical area.
Subsequent to the third quarter we signed 2 leases at New Jersey totaling 1.7 megawatts.
1 lease is for 1 140 kilowatts and is with a new cloud hosting tenant.
The second lease is for 570 kilowatts that is with a new financial services tenant.
These new leases bring New Jersey to 34% leased; ACC6 8% leased; Chicago Phase II 71% pre-leased; and Santa Clara remains at 13% leased.
Since the beginning of the year we have executed 13 new leases totaling 23.6 megawatts of available critical load with an average lease term of 7.9 years.
To date we have leased more megawatts in 2011 than we did in all of 2010.
Our sales and leasing teams have been working diligently to establish new relationships with perspective tenants particularly in New Jersey and Santa Clara area.
We continue to nurture and expand upon existing relationships in Ashburn and Chicago.
We're tracking reasonable demand in each of these market as evidenced by the amount of tours and interest by perspective tenants.
On October 1 we delivered SC1 in Santa Clara.
The majority of the available data center states in this market is within SC1.
Tenants are drawn to Santa Clara because of the reduced power cost Silicon Valley Power provides when compared to the surrounding areas.
We remain confident with the demand in this market and believe in the long run we're in excellent position to capitalize on it.
Due to some recent activity within Santa Clara market we're seeing slightly lower rents within the range of 10% to 12% unlevered return in Santa Clara.
We have no secured debt on this facility.
Back to Northern Virginia we delivered ACC6 on September 1.
Ashburn Corporate Campus allows for tenants within the existing building to organically grow into the newly delivered building.
We can do this without duplicating any personnel enabling cost savings for our tenants.
We're seeing our current tenants demand grow and we are also seeing new tenants come to the market.
We expect to achieve a 15% unlevered return on this asset.
Wholesale data center outsourcing remains a logical and cost effective solution from those companies.
Having just-in-time inventory enables a company to better plan for their data center requirements.
It also optimizes the company's available capital.
We look to provide our tenants with the most reliable scalable and cost efficient computing environment in the industry.
We believe there is sufficient demand in all 4 markets to absorb our inventory.
We have an outstanding track record of leasing available space and we're confident in our ability to lease the space we have.
Our year-end leasing targets remain obtainable but we are focused on our 100% lease up target.
We continue to expect to fully lease up New Jersey by the end of 2012 and both Santa Clara and ACC6 within 18 months of opening.
In summary we continue to make good progress -- leasing our biggest -- leasing is our biggest opportunity to produce cash flow and realize value.
This continues to be everyone's relentless focus.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 3 main topics today: our third quarter results; balance sheet update; and the 2011 guidance update.
As for our third quarter results for 2011 the company's FFO was $0.44 per share compared to $0.37 per share in the third quarter of 2010 an increase of 19%.
The result is primarily from increased operating income from new lease commencements.
Quarterly revenues were $73.8 million our highest ever.
This increase of $13.5 million 22% over the third quarter of 2010.
Leases commenced Q3 towards the end of the quarter and we already have commenced 2 leases in Q4 so you will see additional revenue growth in Q4.
FFO was $0.37 per share in the third quarter compared to $0.28 per share for the third quarter of 2010 an increase of 32%.
AFFO continues to increase faster sequentially than FFO to ramp periods on new leases burn-off.
AFFO was up $6.1 million or 25% quarter-over-quarter sequentially.
Cash rents and lower interest expense drove these increases.
Year-to-date revenues increased 21% from $177 million to $213 million.
FFO per share for the same period increased 24%.
The only remaining development currently in progress is Chicago Phase II.
We anticipate using our cash on hand and a portion of the hundred million revolving line of credit to fund this development through completion.
As of today there are no borrowings against the line.
As for our cash CapEx development spend for the remainder of the year we plan to spend approximately $55 million in Q4.
Total spend for the year will be approximately $370 million.
We continue to closely watch the capital markets relating to our next capital event.
We will not start another development until leasing catches up.
$75 million capital raised discussed in the last call remains an option but not a requirement.
As of today we may wait to raise additional capital into early 2012.
At this point we would use the majority of any such proceeds to simply pay down the expected line of credit balance we used to complete our Chicago development with any remainder for general corporate purposes.
We will continue to keep our leverage low and expect to improve on key debt covenants.
In summary our balance sheet is in great shape.
Our FFO guidance range for the fourth quarter of 2011 is $0.35 to $0.37 per share.
As noted in our press release FFO's projected to dip $0.08 per share sequentially.
This results from an additional interest expensed to stop capitalization of interest on both ACC6 and SC1 toward the end of the third quarter.
Our full-year FFO guidance midpoint remains unchanged at $1.60 per share which represents a 20% increase over 2010.
Details of our 2011 guidance can be found on Page 15 of our press release.
We will provide our 2012 revenue and FFO guidance on the year-end earnings call which will take place in early February.
In September Moody's raised our corporate and senior unsecured bond credit ratings from Ba2 to Ba1 and raised our preferreds from Ba3 to Ba2.
Key components for us achieving investment grade remains diversification both geographically and tenant concentration.
This will happen over time and remains a strategic goal for us.
We believe our solid balance sheet and financial condition give us great flexibility which will enable us to continue to grow the company in a prudent and consistent way for the benefit of our shareholders.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Before we open up for questions let me offer a few final comments.
Last week it was announced that the company co-founder Lammot du Pont stepped down as Executive Chairman.
He will remain as Chairman of the company's Board of Directors.
We are grateful for his leadership and all that he's contributed for DFT and look forward to his continued involvement as our Chairman.
Our focus remains on leasing as we believe it's the key to the -- to increasing shareholder value.
We continue to see demands in all of our markets.
Which we believe can absorb our current inventory.
We will complete Phase II of Chicago on time and on budget and we'll be deliberate in starting any new development.
We know we have a lot of work in front of us but are confident in our ability to lease our available inventory within the timelines provided.
With that we'll be happy to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll first go to Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on a couple things as it relates to sort of lease up demand and timing.
I noticed in your prepared remarks and in the press release you characterized demand as reasonable in all of your markets rather than previous quarters you've talked about it as being good.
I'm curious if that's a purposeful downgrade in terms of the demand outlook or feeling condition today.
And maybe just some commentary as to why you think ACC6 and Santa Clara even though they're only recently opened why the pace at those assets seems to be a little bit slower maybe at the margin relative to at least the interim targets you laid out for year-end? As far as -- I want to first address -- yes I am worried little bit about the macro-world environment.
In that sense we wanted to change it to reasonable.
Data centers are still probably one sector in real estate that's frankly growing at a -- one of the sectors that's fastest growing because the demand is generally driven by the Internet.
I want to be tempered because I'm worried about the world around us.
As it relates to Santa Clara and Northern Virginia I think they're 2 different markets.
Northern Virginia continues to be our best market.
Leasing has always been lumpy and will continue to be lumpy but we are working on a handful of very large deals for ACC6 and probably 2 handfuls of smaller deals on ACC6.
So I have 0 concerns with ACC6 as it relates to leasing.
In Santa Clara we did lower slightly our rental assumptions because like I've said before there are a couple of private players on the market that I felt had done deals that we wouldn't want to do.
I wanted to be tempered with our rental rates in that market.
Our year -- our fully leased up targets which is 18 months from opening are still achievable in that market.
Now ACC6 will probably be faster than our original targets meaning our fully-leased targets.
Research Division</strong> And just -- if you could just characterize the demand similar to the way you did on ACC6 you said a handful of larger deals 2 handles of smaller deals maybe just a similar type of color around SC1.
SC1 I would say there are a handful of smaller deals and 1 or 2 like 2 megawatt-type deals that we're looking at.
So it's not -- we believe that ACC6 will outperform our 100% lease up targets and Santa Clara will perform as we expected.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up the -- so sort of given this context that we're all immediately focused on the lease up of these developed and recently completed assets.
But just -- maybe just give us a little bit more of a strategic view of DFT 2 to 3 years out from now.
Mark touched on not launching new development until you're further along in the leasing.
Just trying to get some context in terms of [indiscernible] to you.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> And then really your plan for the company beyond the lease up of these 4 assets.
Well I think our long-term is extremely bullish because don't forget I've always maintained the Phase I of these assets is the most difficult phases to lease up.
Once the Phase I has leased up our Phase II generally have an embedded tenant base that have more -- that have a organic growth and more demand built up -- pent-up demand because the Phase IIs are there.
It just so happens just like Chicago right now we're delivering the Phase IIs are currently 71% pre-leased.
Now in 3 year's time we'll have Phase IIs of 3 other assets at least to be developed.
Now depending on pre-leasing I'm generally much more bullish on the Phase IIs than I am on the Phase Is.
But once the Phase Is are committed or we feel pretty much close to committed we'll develop the Phase IIs of these assets which will have a -- typically a faster lease uptake and less risk involved.
Then next up Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a question just in terms of how you think the lease up pace will likely materialize into actual occupancy? Because if you look at the expectations for next year to get New Jersey done by the end of the year in terms of leased and I guess you kind of have the same expectations for SC1 and ACC6 as well.
How do you think that -- do you think there is likely to be more of a delay in terms of taking occupancy versus leased rates similar to what you have at CH1 with the tenant that -- the 20% of the space but isn't going to be in until kind of Q3 or Q4 of next year and then early 2013? I think it typically will be similar to CH1 in that when we lease up a space typically the tenants take about 1 year to absorb -- 1 year to sometimes 18 months to absorb the space they have.
Now depending on accounting we may straight line that GAAP income the first we will straighten the line -- that GAAP income on these commencements.
But typically they have a ramp of about a year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I mean there's a ramp of a year and you've got a significant amount of leasing that you're expecting to get done in both Q4 of this year through the 4 quarters of next year.
If I kind of compare that to what you've got in terms of your Q4 '11 expectations of a midpoint of $0.36 a share -- $0.35 to $0.37 annualized at somewhere call it $1.40 to $1.50.
And then you've got a capital raise starting in next year it seems like kind of to get up to where a lot of folks are expecting the run rate for next year you've got to do a fair amount of leasing to kind of bridge that gap is that sort of a fair assessment big picture as we look out to next year? Yes Brendan.
If we -- it is -- plus it's a function of development.
If leasing goes as we think it will in certain markets the Phase II will be on the table.
We'll talk about 2012 in February but it's a Catch-22 between we're not going to just start development just so we can just capitalize on interest were going to match it up with demand in the marketplace and be prudent about where go Phase IIs.
So if you just think of FFO interest capitalization does affect it next year but in terms of where EBITDA's going and where we're taking this company from a cash-returns perspective we're doing everything right.
So the Phase II's developments will be a function of how leasing goes and if we have -- you do the math on the quote available inventory.
And if we average 6 7 8 megawatts a quarter it depends on how -- when those hit.
If it happens early in the year we will be starting Phase II developments.
If it happens later in the year we'll delay it.
We'll go next to Dave Rogers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark can you give little bit of color specifically on the GAAP perspective leasing that you got at Chicago Phase II.
And just given what you've said it looks like you got a pretty wide range of estimates out there for 2012.
I think a lot of that relates to when the GAAP commencements will actually occur for Chicago.
So will you start most of that pre-leasing as of the completion of that asset? Or can you give us some color on the specifics there? Yes assuming we open the doors in the middle of Q1 I believe 50% of that commences immediately.
The 17 [ph]  -- the remaining 21% that we just signed we laid out in the press release window that leasings commences.
50% of building commences on day one of opening.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what was your target for pre-leasing on the day of opening? Did you expect a number there? Well I think we assumed 25% or something on a...
Well we put a shovel on the ground at 30% so we didn't really -- I mean we're way ahead of where we thought we'd be from the pre-leasing of Chicago.
And again primarily because of the Phase II asset.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And with respect to either new markets or new starts maybe Chicago comes to mind as well where you could use more land in advance of any other starts that you're talking about putting a shovel on the ground should we expect to see you a little bit more aggressive in the next 6 months looking for additional either new markets or land purchases? Well I think David we have an enormous amount of growth ahead of us in our current leasing.
Now having said that Chicago is one market that yes we are looking but we were going to be careful about when we start that.
We don't want to leave our tenants without anywhere to go in Chicago.
So I think we will need to get something going in Chicago but everywhere else I think that unless we've got big amount of pre-leasing we're not going to put a shovel in the ground.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question any back filling on the executive ranks? Or do you -- should we expect to see any hires or any impact to G&amp;A going forward given the Lammont announcement? No.
We'll go next to Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Can you guys give us an update on the Secure Financial Transaction access center at NJ1 and talk about maybe the terms there and how much of a factor that may have been with the financial services tenant that you signed there? We think long-term having the feisty note [ph] of the New York Stock Exchange it's a definite positive -- the data center.
One of our tenants in place will be using that facility and we expect that some of the tenants that are not in the building also are interested in it some of the people that we're talking to.
That was really something that adds value to the building and we expect more and more tenants will start using it.
But I can't really put a number on it.
Okay and what was -- I mean what did you guys have to pay to get that? I don't think we've disclosed that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you guys talk about how you're approaching today the lease up of ACC6 versus the upcoming vacancy at VA3? I mean you talked previously different types of tenants there.
Are you seeing more interest in one over the other at this point? No.
I mean it's like having 2 children.
I don't really have a favorite between them.
It's a -- no the reason is one is very different to the other.
One is a low density type of building that will really be best suited to a different type of tenant than the high-density space.
But I think they will both lease up well in the past we have always leased VA3 very well and we do see once in a while a tenant of ACC6 that cannot use 200 watts of square foot if you have any lower-density space then we always point them towards VA3.
So I feel very good about Virginia it remains the best market in the country and we're the dominant player there.
So we expect to do well in both of them.
Okay.
And last quarter you guys had talked about being 40% back filled there by the time that the tenant moved out.
Are you still feeling comfortable with that today? I think it's a -- that was -- where we hope to I'd say we're -- sitting here today...
I think it's still very possible it depends on where we want to move some tenants.
Some tenants between ACC6 and the VA3 and we just have one tenant who was interested in taking some space there now and we asked one tenant whether they would move out earlier.
So some of these assumptions we do are just simply lines in the sand.
If the space was available now I think we could put someone in certainly in 25% of it immediately.
So it depends I feel -- I still feel that's a reasonable assumption that I want to be...
We'll talk further in February about that.
Yes.
The next is Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On Santa Clara the 10% to 12% range you talked about in terms of unlevered returns that's still a reasonably wide range considering the asset is completed.
So you know what the construction costs are so what's the variable there in terms of the low end and the high end in achieving those returns? Well I think I did discuss a little bit earlier in the -- and on the last call I mentioned that there is 1 or 2 private players that are in that market that I think have done deals where us public players would not do.
And to me those deals didn't make sense.
And where those deals come in they were lower than what we expected rent to be.
Now the majority of those spaces have now been leased up.
So whether the rents will ratch up where we expect them to be or remain lower I'm uncertain of.
That's why I wanted to be tempered in our assumptions.
And Ross the range can fluctuate between somebody taking down 6 8 megawatts versus somebody taking down 1 or 2 depending who the tenant is and the growth story around them.
So I guess what we're saying is we're not looking to lose a deal out there in terms of what we see out there.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I'm understanding.
So the low end of the range would assume that these deals that were done by one of these private competitors effectively those rents remain sort of steady in the market.
The high end of the range assumes that rents perhaps are now back up to where they were? Now back to where they were.
Yes.
That's a fair way of it -- that's a fair way putting it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On New Jersey can you give us a sense of where the recent leases are from a rent-per-kilowatt perspective as opposed to the ones you that had signed late last year and early this year? They're about the same.
They're about the same and we still expect to reach a 12% unlevered return.
So rents really have not changed on the 2 3 recent deals that we've done.
And every tenant has a lease term a credit standpoint.
Some credit is better some leases are longer-term but from a perspective of how we feel rents are in that market we feel it's really unchanged and more and more people and tenants are realizing the quality of our asset is far superior to anything else in the market.
And once they come and see us and tour us in these type of data centers seeing is believing and once they bring their engineers through they feel more and more confident that it's the best product in that market.
Research Division</strong> Do you get any questions from tenants around the topic of density? And do they say "Hey I get the rent-per-kilowatt makes sense but the rent-per-square foot looks a little high relative to others?" How do...
We -- that's a question we've dealt with from day one but frankly when you point them to the feeling and say "Why don't you go to an 8-foot rack? Why don't you go to a 9-foot rack?" If they say "Oh you can cool that?" And we say "Absolutely we can cool that.
The building is designed for that.
Let me show you 5 other tenants that are using 8-foot and 9-foot rack.
What you care about is the amount of power not necessarily the amount density." So as we talked them through the density we have less and less resistance.
We'll go next to Chris Lucas with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Mark could you provide some color on the backlog as of the third quarter in terms of megawatts.
In other words what's the amount of leased space versus what has commenced off of those leases.
What do you have left that's out there? As of today all the leases that we have are commenced including the lease in Santa Clara including the couple of leases we just signed in New Jersey.
And so the only thing that has not commenced is out in Chicago.
50% of which will lease -- will commence as of the day we open the building and the remaining 21% commence as I disclosed in the press release.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then in terms of New Jersey Hossein if you could you had previously guided to I think to be at 50% I think by year-end.
You're at 34% how comfortable are you at this point in terms of getting to your end goal? I mean those assumptions of year-end were simply the midpoint of where we think the leasing will be on the -- it was a straight line and we looked at where we were going to be 100% and then prorated it to where we're going to be on a straight line basis year-end.
Now absolutely some markets were going to be at way ahead of that.
Some markets may slightly lag although I do think as I said in my prepared remarks that all the year-end -- previously stated year-end assumptions are possible very likely that we'll be way ahead on a couple and maybe lagging on 1 or 2 because there were simply lines in the sand.
But we are very confident on our 100% leasing assumptions.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then -- and quickly just -- it appears to me it sounds like from last quarter to this quarter there has been a greater divergence in terms of how you're think about the market.
Is that a fair assessment? It's a little bit on Santa Clara as I'm thinking about it.
But generally I am a little bit about worried more about the macro world market.
Now previously that has not necessarily affected data centers because they continued to grow.
But I'm worried about some of the decision-making based on what's happening in the world so I want to be tempered.
But having said that typically we've also seen that in the past when our biggest competitors in the world of data centers is tenants doing it themselves.
It's not necessarily the other reason [ph].
And in a world that is uncertain we also see many tenants decide to outsource rather than doing it themselves.
So I may be wrong and it may have a positive impact on us.
We'll go next to Michael Bilerman with Citi.
It's Manny here with Michael.
Hossein maybe you can give us some anecdotal examples or evidence of tenants or potential tenants that have come through and made commitments but you don't have anything out in pre-lease form or even LOI form that you think will help you hit those year-end targets.
Like I said the -- we are working on a number of tenants in the Virginia market a handful of very large and maybe 2 handfuls of smaller tenants.
But depending on both we could very well exceed in Virginia where we are staking [ph].
But having said that I'm much more now focused on leasing up the entire building rather than just trying to hit what I've described in the past as a line in the sand in 2 months.
I mean what's the hesitation on the tenants' part from signing those leases? Is it just they're not ready today and it'll be ready next week? Or is there some broader issue at hand? No Manny this is Mark.
The -- I mean the inventory's available obviously so it's not that.
The decision-making internally at some of the companies it takes longer than maybe it has in the past.
So...
But again I want to be -- the original estimates we gave you were simply a straight line -- in a straight line estimate of where we thought we would be 100% leased.
There was no magic assumption to those year-end assumptions.
And the key point Manny is that we from an FFO perspective we are exactly where we were we said we're going to be at the beginning of the year.
So we didn't have a lot of EBITDA or FFO in terms of the new leases started.
It was just that as the run rate of '12 would look to give you a little bit of color where we're going? So whether we hit those in the next 60 days is -- we're working hard on it.
And also don't forget that we've leased more megawatts in the last year until now than we did all of last year the entire year.
Research Division</strong> Mark what's -- this is Michael Bilerman speaking.
In terms of the cap interest at 27 or 29 for the year that implies $3 million to $5 million for the fourth quarter? And I'm just curious I guess when you look at the only project that I guess you're going to be capping in the fourth quarter will be Chicago which is $160 million.
You got $30 million to $40 million left to spend.
So how should we think about -- because that's pretty wide range for cap interest if it's just that one project.
So what's going on in terms of that forecast and how should we think about things moving around for the fourth quarter? It is to clarify it is just the 1 project.
It is a function of -- we do it monthly based on the draws that we fund the development.
So as we hit each calendar month we capitalize interest on what's been expended not on this total projected.
So it moves around based on when things are completed inside that building.
Research Division</strong> You're capping at your 7.4% average rate or are you capping at a different rate? Specific to -- some of the assets was specific to the bond debt at 8.5% and -- but I think Chicago is the average that one.
Research Division</strong> So if it's at $5 million if you annualize at it at -- you're talking about $270 million of the cap balance which just exceeds the construction cost right? If you just take $5 million annualize it and then 7.4% rate you get to $270 million? It is but the money expended at Chicago at the average rate for 1 month.
So if the math is -- I still think we're inside the range that I had projected on the last page.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess when you look towards next year obviously there is -- it's not just Chicago that's a moving piece but Santa Clara leasing up ACC6 leasing up and where you get to on New Jersey all will greatly impact FFO and the ramp depending on when those leases hit.
And so you've been pretty specific on Chicago in terms of opening 50% in the first quarter.
And then assuming no other leasing you get to 57% in the third quarter 64% by the fourth quarter and then 71% by 1Q '13.
And then any other leasing that you do between now and then that takes up space would be additive to FFO I guess how should we think about the NOI impact for the other projects as we start to wrap our heads around what FFO and the trend line is heading into next year? I think we'll talk in detail in February with regards to 2012.
It's absolutely a leased up story for us as we think about quarterly sequential growth at the FFO line.
And then whether we start a new development or we not affects that number because we do have a very conservative capitalization policy.
So it's hard to sit here today and say sequentially quarter-by-quarter we are hustling to lease and nothing will change.
The next question comes from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
Santa Clara again just going back to this new 10% to 12% development yield.
Again the sense I got from that market again the private guys are really progressive in the third quarter but based on them being really aggressive they've pretty much leased up their space.
So I'm just kind of curious why you may end up in a world where rates will remain as low as those guys were offering in third quarter and things then kind of bounce back towards where market pricing was before that? Well I think you're right they seem to be leased up.
But if it does bounce back and I answered it I think when Rob asked it'll be at 12.
If it doesn't bounce back it'll be at 10.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I think I won't -- yes but I think at one point when we're talking about that asset giving you more like 12% to 14% or 12% to 15% type yields? No.
No we've always maintained 12% on that asset.
And Virginia is the one that we thought...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm sorry.
Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And then New Jersey again it's -- you guys have done some additional leasing.
We had pretty bullish commentary from one of your competitors about New Jersey but yet you still have this backdrop of a lot of the leasing expected from financial service companies who all seem to be pulling back.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand why your competitor as well as yourself sounds cautiously optimistic about that market but everything we see in regards to who your demand should be coming from they all seem to kind of be pulling back somewhat.
I think New Jersey is coming along.
I mean we've -- we seem to be doing -- it's incremental we have some incremental leasing that's good.
And don't forget what we have is we put on the market 18.2 megawatts.
Our competitors may put on the market 2 megawatts.
So the business model we have which I like as a building owner is where once the buildings are leased up they are so efficient that it's tough to compete for that building.
But to -- but it does take 2 years to lease up these massive buildings.
So that's a different business strategy as a long-term owner of the building I think it's the right decision for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess I was just referring to one of your competitors saying they're now tracking 42 megawatts of demand in that market versus 24 megawatts of power last quarter where the sudden jump is coming from? I can't comment on where they see.
I just see it as a good solid market and we're still tracking plenty of tours and plenty of interest people coming through the building and seeing what a great asset it is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly I guess it seems there's a lot of buzz nowadays about built-to-suit opportunities out there.
Is that a business that you could see yourselves getting more involved in? And are you looking at those kind of opportunities? We certainly are but the more what we see potentially doing is talking to some of our relationships to build an 18-megawatt building whereby we would lease 8 to 10 megawatts of it already and whereby the operating expenses of the building for everyone would ratch down when the entire building is leased.
That kind of replicating our model maybe somewhere else.
But that would be the opportunity but we're not ready to announce anything.
We'll go next to Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So the first thing I was hoping that you might give us some color on Hossein is the competitive dynamic from market to market as we look at the West Coast.
Clearly Jim has created some competition for you in the Santa Clara area over the last few months.
But now as we look at potentially choosing other markets outside of San Francisco versus your Santa Clara how competitive is it across geography there? And I guess in particular I was surprised to see Net2EZ sign a deal with DLR? I think Net2EZ in L.A.
have always signed with DLR.
That's not a new lease for them.
They have a long-standing relationship and if they will need space in L.A we certainly don't have any space and I think DLR is a good product out there.
So that's nothing new.
The -- I think on market-to-market I would say Virginia and Chicago remain our best 2 markets.
Then I would rank the New Jersey as our third and the fourth best market would be California or Santa Clara.
And on Santa Clara I feel that it is a long-term Silicon Valley so there will always be tenants out there but I certainly feel that some of the deals that were done are deals that we're not willing to do and the other public players are not willing to do.
And we will simply wait until they're leased up and it sounds like they are going to be and I'm also -- we're not willing to go to some of the extent and I'm happy to talk to you offline of where some of the concessions those guys are willing to give.
And I'm certainly not sure about what their exit strategy is going to be because I'm not interested in buying those buildings.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I'll follow up offline on that.
In terms of the renewal you had a fairly large renewal in the quarter.
Can you give us some color around that? I think the renewal that you had in Q2 was one of those leases that was above market and so probably came into market.
Is there any incremental color on the lease renewal for the third quarter? We have NDAs with all of our tenants and most people in the industry do.
And because we have such few leases those renewals could be tracked back to which tenants we're talking about.
And so we're really not at liberty to break our NDAs and give specifics on those.
And Jonathan that's the same renewal we talked about on the last call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
All right a little confusion there.
Hossein did you give the average remaining lease life across your -- across the footprint at this point? I think I want to say it's 7.9 but Mark please correct me.
Yes it was 7.9 for the leases signed this year I think for the whole portfolio it's like 6.9.
We'll go next to Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just got a quick one just not to pile on on the competition question.
But out in California with the deals that private guys are doing that you aren't.
Can you talk maybe a little bit more about why you think they can offer lower rates whether it's their bases whether they're expecting lower returns and maybe kind of quantify that gap and whether that gap is widening or narrowing? And maybe just add a little bit of color there? I really can't give you color why they're doing it.
That's really not for me to say.
Research Division</strong> I mean it's an important question though right? If rates in your markets are falling a little bit maybe just offer a little bit of comfort around where you think those rates could go prospectively.
Well I think this -- from a space standpoint we see that space now leased up.
So the only question I have right now is whether they remain as is or if they will move back up again.
And that's the question that's been asked a couple of times on the call and I don't know the answer to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you feel like that's a situation that was pretty much isolated to California at this point? Or do you feel like private equity players or other private players might look to build in other of your markets? At the moment I would say it's absolutely isolated to California.
We haven't seen it anywhere else so I can't comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
You guys talked about levels of pre-leasing for new developments.
Can you maybe put a number on what that would be to go ahead with a new project? Well it depends on the location.
Like in some locations for example where -- if it was a new location not in the 4 markets we're at we will want to be significantly pre-leased meaning call it out of 18 megawatts 6 to 10 megawatts pre-leased.
On the current locations we have less of a need especially if it's phase 2 asset because we have an embedded tenant base that we are confident that we would grow into it.
We'll go next to Phil Wilhelm with UBS O'Connor.
Two questions.
The first one given the commentary you provided earlier it seems as if your initial yield expectations for your developments remains similar to your original underwriting and it's more or less just the timing aspect that's perhaps changed.
That's question 1 and then just as a follow up if true there should be $70 million-plus of incremental NOI coming from your pipeline.
And is that -- does that sound like it's right -- in the right ballpark provided that you hit your...
Well let me answer the first part and I'll wait for Mark to answer the second part.
From a return standpoint even from a timing standpoint from 100% lease up we have not really changed our assumptions when we're going to be 100% leased.
Where we're going to be 50% leased on some projects we're going to be ahead some projects we may lag slightly and then maybe catch up at the end.
So our final lease up is we remain confident that we're going to hit those targets.
And then Mark I'll turn it over to you for the second part.
Yes.
In terms of -- so if we lease up everything we have from an inventory perspective your number's not far-off in terms of -- it's just a question of when we get there.
And we can get there with no new debt and no new capital raise which is a beautiful thing.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two clarification points did you say where the demand was coming from in terms of -- in Northern Virginia is it the bigger tenants you're seeing from within the existing park? Or are there some new tenants kicking around? I think both Jordan we're talking to a couple of existing tenants interested in expanding and also a couple of -- from the larger tenants and a couple of new tenants that we have not done deals with that are looking.
And then similar to the smaller tenants probably the first handful would be newer tenants and then there's a handful of older tenants.
And as I said we have already done deals with in the park.
Research Division</strong> Across the portfolio and in North Virginia tenants -- is it fair to say that there just aren't as many -- you're not seeing as many larger tenants in the market new larger tenants? Well I would say in Chicago and Virginia we are seeing larger tenants.
In...
Research Division</strong> New to the portfolio? Yes new to the portfolio.
We are seeing larger tenants in Chicago and in Virginia new to the portfolio.
On the -- in Santa Clara -- and my definition of large would be maybe say 4 megawatts and bigger? The -- in Santa Clara and New Jersey we're generally dealing with smaller-sized tenants which are like 500 kilowatts to 2 megawatts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Mark just on the debt deal I know you touched on it.
Are you saying that's still embedded in the sort of midpoint being affirmed here in the range of $1.59 to a $1.61 you still have $75 million debt deal in those numbers.
No.
I mean we -- I always had that debt deal late in Q4 basically the month of December.
And now I don't have it in there.
We'll go next to Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for Mark.
Your in-place based gap rents went down $3 million sequentially.
Is that just merely driven by your Yahoo! lease? Or what else is going on there? And that's a primary thing the Yahoo! lease that expired -- it will expire.
We go next to Chris Lucas with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Just in terms of thinking about the future development starts.
Is it fair to assume that you're more comfortable in a market that you have already density.
So Ashburn would be an easier market for you to get comfortable with in terms of not only the Phase II part but just in general thinking about future assets.
But as I'm thinking about sort of the risk in your profile isn't it sort of heading down in the sense that you're -- you've got 3 projects that are Phase I and then going forward those 3 will be moving to Phase II.
So how should we be thinking about the hurdles to get to new starts? I think you're absolutely right and I wish I had been more clear on that on my prepared remarks.
What I was trying to get to and again I tried to answer it earlier on the call is yes now is the time of higher risk in the portfolio because we're leasing Phase I.
And yes the Phase II we have significantly less risk and yes our next phases of expansion again will be in the current -- I mean unless we've got significant pre-leasing our next phases of expansion will again be -- will be in the 4 markets that we're established in.
So yes again the -- we feel that down the road our risks on the new expansions will be significantly less.
And we'll go next to Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Mark you talked in your prepared remarks about not initiating on any new phase deployments so new construction until you saw maybe an improvement in some of the lease up trends.
I was just trying to get a sense of that comment in the context of kind of where your plans were maybe a year ago? So are you delaying construction is I guess my question or is it just that you're continually evaluating? Well I think it's a continual evaluation.
The phase -- we've said historically that we'd like to start 2 phases a year.
And that still could happen depending on lease up.
But as Chris just alluded to the risk profile is with Phase Is are right in front of us and we're going to deal with it first.
The Phase IIs -- we have 49 megawatts of Phase IIs sitting on the table we can bring those to market in a 7 to 9 month window if we need to.
And so the idea of starting those in 2012 is absolutely right in front of us.
We would like to do that but we're going to do it in a prudent fashion.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.