Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
We've had a good first half of the year in what I've said is the most challenging CSD environment I've ever seen.
Despite the headwinds our teams continued to remain focused against our priorities and we achieved another solid quarter of results.
And as you may have read in this morning's press release we've raised our full year EPS guidance by $0.05 to reflect our first half performance while remaining cautious on the CSD category over the balance of the year.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% on roughly 3 points of positive mix in price with CSDs increasing 2% and non-carbs declining 4% primarily the result of the 12% decline in Hawaiian Punch.
Dr Pepper decreased 1% in the quarter reflecting sequential improvement from the last quarter.
Our Core 4 brands increased 2% in the quarter led by continued strong growth in Canada Dry.
Both 7UP and Sunkist were flat in the quarter.
As I've said Hawaiian Punch declined 12% on category headwinds and increased competitive activity.
Snapple decreased 3% as we strategically deprioritized our value line.
Our Snapple Premium business grew by 1% in the quarter.
Mott's was flat in the quarter as declines in the sauce business offset growth in juice.
Peñafiel increased 25% as we continued to see strong performance in our mineral water business and successful innovation that we launched in the third quarter of last year.
All other brands increased by 1% in the quarter.
Schweppes experienced strong double-digit growth reflecting growth in our sparkling waters and positive ginger ale category trends.
Clamato grew 8% in the quarter and our water category increased 4% on strong growth in both Fiji and Vita Coco as well as new distribution agreements with Bai 5 and Sparkling Fruit2O.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales are flat on 2 points of positive mix in price.
Dr Pepper declined 2% and our Core 4 brands increased 1%.
Hawaiian Punch declined 10% while both Snapple and Mott's decreased 1%.
Peñafiel increased 22% and all other brands were flat.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 2% in the quarter on sales volume growth favorable product and package mix and pricing.
This growth was partially offset by an unfavorable trading discount comparison to last year.
Core operating income increased 18% on sales growth lower cost of goods a planned decrease in marketing investment and ongoing productivity improvements.
Core EPS increased 26% in the quarter.
Year-to-date currency net sales increased 2% core income from operations increased 19% and core EPS increased 31%.
Now through the first half of the year.
I thought I'd share a quick update on how we're progressing against our key priorities.
Increasing distribution on availability of our key brands and packages continues to be a significant opportunity for us.
Year-to-date we've increased distribution in grocery on both key CSD brands and packages and on Snapple.
We've also gained almost 2 points of ACV on Snapple Premium in the convenience channel and just under 2 points of ACV on Mott's in the grocery channel.
We're continuing to expand single-serve availability while creating new sampling locations for our brands with over 20 000 new fountain valves across both local and national accounts.
As a result our fountain foodservice business grew 2% in the quarter.
We're also redeploying cold drink equipment assets across our DSD footprint ensuring that we're maximizing our return.
Our brands are well loved by consumers and our equity scores reflect just that.
We continue to see gains in our equity scores across the portfolio with improvements in both brand relevance and brand strength reinforcing the effectiveness of our marketing programs.
As consumers' needs and preferences continue to evolve we're ensuring that we're meeting their needs with a portfolio of products.
Our R&amp;D team continues to make progress in the sweetener development area though we've said before that there is no magic bullet and this will be an evolution that occurs over time.
Our TEN platform continues to drive incremental consumer occasions bringing lapsed users back into the category with its great taste and full-mouth feel for only 10 calories per can.
And we're currently testing naturally sweetened CSDs for consumers who are looking for a lower calorie option without artificial sweeteners.
Our naturally sweetened CSDs contain real sugar and Stevia and are 60 calories per 12-ounce can.
RCI continues to drive improvement in all RCI pillars: safety quality delivery productivity and growth.
And I couldn't be more pleased with the engagement of our people in achieving these results.
Marty will provide you more color a little later.
We had a strong programming throughout the first half of the year.
And as I look towards our back half calendar I'm confident that we have strong plans in place to drive engagement and excitement with our consumers and our customers.
Summer is a time for entertaining and refreshment and I've hoped you've seen and tried our Dr Pepper Vanilla Float limited time offering.
This is currently out in the market.
The PJ Awards is the #1 Hispanic youth award program.
This summer Dr Pepper partnered with the PJ for the fifth straight year and Romeo Santos a popular Latin artist to give away VIP trips to the award shows that aired last week.
7UP has partnered with 7 electronic dance music DJs including world-renowned Tiësto to make the brand synonymous with the growing EDM culture.
Our 7UP Light it Up campaign launched in early summer and has already delivered millions of targeted impressions with Hispanic millennial consumer and our fan base continues to grow on the 7UP Facebook page.
Snapple's partnership with America's Got Talent is in full swing delivering millions of impressions during the shows and through our digital specific campaign.
And we just announced a 3-year sponsorship agreement with the San Francisco Giants last week which will give Snapple pouring rights in AT&amp;T Park and bring Snapple teas and juices to thirsty Giants fans.
We're ready to kick off the 2014 college football season with an exciting partnership with ESPN.
Dr Pepper is the first official college football championship partner and presenting sponsor of the new National Championship trophy.
We'll deliver over 2 billion media impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms ensuring that we're always on.
And our tuition giveaway program will also be integrated with the ESPN properties this year.
And just in time for back-to-school we're reaching shopper mall and supporting schools with our participation in the Box Tops for Education program with Mott's.
I'm sure you'll agree that our plans are stronger than ever.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2014 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 1%.
Package and product mix combined with pricing including the impact of the price increase in Mexico to cover the sugar tax increased net sales by roughly 3 points.
This was partially offset by higher discounts mostly due to an unfavorable comparison of our annual drop of trade spending and also 1 point of negative foreign currency.
Reported gross margins were up 120 basis points in the quarter increasing from 58% last year to 59.2% this year.
Lower commodity costs net of the year-over-year LIFO impact increased gross margins by 160 basis points.
RCI productivity and other cost improvements further increased gross margins by 65 basis points.
Product and package mix which includes growth in products bought from allied brand partners reduced gross margins by 60 basis points.
And the unfavorable trade discount adjustment I referred to earlier reduced gross margins by about 40 basis points.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax further reduced gross margins by 45 basis points as our pricing as intended is only a pass-through of the tax.
There were no material mark-to-market commodity gains or losses this quarter.
However we did record a $7 million unrealized mark-to-market loss a year ago with approximately $5 million recorded in cost of goods and $2 million reported in SG&amp;A.
The net effect on gross margins was a 30 basis point increase.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation decreased by $27 million.
As we highlighted in our full year guidance marketing spend declined $18 million as we lapped activity on Core 4 TEN last year.
Second quarter marketing spend represented 7.8% of second quarter sales slightly ahead of our full year target of 7.5%.
Other favorable SG&amp;A comparisons include $3 million of foreign currency and the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Last year's SG&amp;A included an unclaimed property audit settlement of $4 million.
We were able to fairly well offset SG&amp;A labor and other cost inflation including higher transportation costs from our third-party carriers by other cost and productivity improvements.
Depreciation and amortization was flat at $29 million.
Other operating income was $3 million in the quarter versus $2 million of expense in the prior year driven by the sale of certain warehouses a direct result of RCI supply chain improvements.
Reported operating income was $348 million compared to $285 million last year.
Core operating margin of 21.3% of net sales was up 290 basis points from 18.4% in the prior year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was $27 million $3 million below last year reflecting an interest rate swap we entered into in December of last year and the repayment of senior unsecured notes in May of 2013.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.1% slightly lower than expected.
Now moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the 6 months was $438 million up $143 million and capital spending was $71 million compared to $80 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $367 million compared to $215 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders year-to-date were $363 million with $206 million in shares repurchased and $157 million in dividends.
Before I move on to guidance let me give you a quick update on RCI.
RCI is beginning to become a permanent foundation of our business.
Actually the way we do business.
And it continues to drive significant value throughout the organization.
We've created lean leadership tracks led by senior managers in the company to not only drive meaningful results but to also create a set of lean leaders and frontline excellence throughout the business.
I'll share some of the wins we've seen so far this year.
First we've closed over 4 000 voids on our Snapple business across several markets achieving sales growth in each of those markets outperforming national brand results.
Second we've added over 30 000 incremental points of distribution across our single-serve juice portfolio driving double-digit dollar share growth in the single-serve multipack juice segment.
Third we've even included one of our Dr Pepper distribution partners on an RCI event targeted at increasing our display tie-in rates and are seeing much improved results in that market.
And fourth we closed about 650 000 square feet of unnecessary warehouse space this year and as you saw in our financials realized about $5 million of cash proceeds.
These are just a few examples.
We continue to believe our runway is long and we have significant further RCI opportunities.
Now moving on to 2014 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's release we have now raised our full year core EPS guidance to a range of $3.43 to $3.51 based on stronger-than-expected first half performance.
While we're very encouraged on many of our key initiatives as well as our balance-of-year plans we are still remaining cautious on the macro and category environments in the U.S.
For the year we still expect volume to decline roughly 1 point with CSDs declining slightly and our non-carb portfolio declining low-single digits although this continues to be a Hawaiian Punch-driven issue.
From a CSD standpoint we do expect concentrate shipments which have trended ahead of bottler case sales to soften somewhat in the back half.
We continue to expect combined price and mix to be up about 2% for the full year.
As a reminder the higher pricing in Mexico as a result of the sugar tax will contribute approximately 60 basis points of this positive pricing but will not contribute earnings growth as it is simply a pass-through of the tax.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive another 40 basis points of growth.
We expect foreign exchange translation to unfavorably impact net sales and operating profit by approximately 50 basis points each for the full year.
As we communicated previously we expect packaging and ingredients deflation for the year.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of the year-over-year LIFO comparison by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
However this deflation will be realized during the first 3 quarters of the year.
Just over 1% inflation is expected in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we recorded a $14 million LIFO credit in the fourth quarter last year.
Similarly we booked a LIFO credit of $7 million in the third quarter of last year.
We will not have any similar credits this year.
Separately we expect the Mexico sugar tax which is recorded in cost of goods sold to increase total cost of goods by approximately 1.6%.
After considering all of these items 2014 gross margin should be flat to slightly better than last year.
Consistent with our previous expectations higher transportation costs are expected to add $17 million of expense in 2014 and are being incurred evenly throughout the year.
People cost inflation of $30 million for the full year including health and wellness cost increases will be significantly more pronounced in the third and fourth quarters as we cycle the benefits of last year's restructuring activity combined with lapping certain favorable health and wellness cost true-ups in last year's fourth quarter.
And we continue to expect marketing spend to be approximately 7.5% of net sales.
Below segment operating profit net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.5 billion of debt.
And our full year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending will be approximately 3% of net sales.
And we are on track to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject of course to market conditions.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts: Our priorities remain unchanged.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
We're committed to providing consumers with options to address their evolving needs and lifestyles.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long term.
And we'll continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
RCI continues to drive meaningful improvements in the organization.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Marty I want to sort of follow up on the gross margin guidance and I understand some of the headwinds in terms of LIFO et cetera.
I guess can you talk a little bit maybe about Q3 versus Q4? Because it seems like with the tougher comp in Q4 the gross margin guidance makes sense the gross margin could be down then.
I'm having a real hard time getting Q3 gross margin to where we need to be to sort of hit your guidance for the full year.
So I know you talked about a little bit in terms of LIFO adjustments et cetera but what are we missing here that's going to create a pretty seriously down gross margin given the fact they're up about 140 basis points here today? Okay John thanks for the question.
So let me try to help guide you on a full year basis and for the full year basis you can ignore the LIFO.
The LIFO has an impact across the quarters over last year but not on a full year basis.
So the way we see our margins forming gross margins forming for the year would be approximately as follows: Our 2% full year guidance COGS deflation net of all the LIFO from last year so working off of last year's cost of goods space is roughly worth 80 basis points of year-over-year improvement.
Our concentrate price increase which for the most part with Mexico's price out of this for a minute for the most part is the only real drop through pricing that we're looking at.
So that's worth 40 basis points.
Now the Mexico sugar tax which is in essence a 0 margin revenues because we're just passing the tax through in terms of the rate of margin is probably worth a negative 50 basis points.
So you're roughly up 70.
And then another potential downside factor is product mix.
Packaged beverages is benefiting from the sale of a number of these allied brands.
Larry mentioned it's whether Vita Coco Bai et cetera.
We buy these products we buy finished goods so the gross margin is not as great -- it's good profit per case but here we're talking about the rate of margin.
So somewhere you're somewhere up on the higher side to 70 maybe a little less for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one sort of follow-up on the concentrate price increase which is -- can you talk about the discussions you're having with your bottling partners in terms of how you're focusing on the reduction in marketing spend to improve efficiencies there in the context of a concentrate price increase? What we're doing much more on that John is showing -- just like we said in the first quarter how we're getting more exposure out there more GRPs more activity more frequency.
So we're measuring it much more on the end result than what it costs to get it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about a couple of things.
One is the mention of higher discounts.
And if you look at the net pricing it leaves negative 2% in beverage concentrate flattish in packaged beverages -- and understanding you guys are saying what group we are getting to we're getting to overall.
I'm trying to get a sense of what your guided view is of the pricing environment out there.
And it feels like you're not following quite as much your competitive set in terms of pricing in the marketplace being up.
I mean from what we saw from Coke and Pepsi are reported higher than your numbers.
I want to get a sense of that from you first please.
Let me start with some numbers and Larry can comment on market pricing activities.
So to clear up beverage concentrates we do a funding accrual true-up every year.
It happens in the second quarter.
And just to box the numbers last year in beverage concentrates it actually provided a revenue benefit of $11 million.
And this year it was a charge reduction of $7 million.
So now you can sort of frame that into your model and of course absent that there would've been growth in the beverage concentrate segment.
So I pass that information out and Larry can talk about the marketplace pricing.
Yes.
As far as the pricing we see the pricing being very rational very disciplined out there right now.
And we are taking advantage of all that pricing.
And if there's any incremental pricing we'll be watching that on a market-by-market basis.
But you also kind of remember that the majority of our Dr Pepper is priced by the Coke and Pepsi systems which is close to 80% go see those 2 systems there.
So I would say we're very competitive in all prices that are out there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But then I guess I'm trying to understand what you mean by take advantage of pricing much that you just said because beverage concentrate is down 2% and pricing -- I respect the kind of true-up but that's the first time in 4 or 5 years that that's down.
Usually it's up mid-single digits.
So trying to get a better handle on that.
And then when it finished it's flat.
So I'm trying to understand what you mean by take advantage of.
Are you not pricing as much as your peers? Ali let's just clarify for everybody.
Pricing in concentrate -- concentrate pricing did go up at the beginning of the year and it is being realized.
So I don't know if your question goes to that or goes to what's happening in the marketplace in terms of end consumer pricing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So when you mean pricing do you include mix and discounting? Well we try to separate those as best we can that's why I'm saying -- I said in my remarks as I just went through with John on gross margin for the year other than the concentrate price increase we don't really see any true pure pricing falling through in the U.S.
Where we are benefiting is mix.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you believe your price mix plus discounting is in line with -- across the portfolio of your peers? Absolutely absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe taking both those 2 same topics on so first margins and then pricing but from a slightly different angle.
On the margin side Marty you gave some good details on the moving parts both for margin within the quarter and also in response to John's question for the balance of the year.
But as you step back could you just maybe frame for us the total benefit from -- that margins year-to-date have received from the following 3 factors: First is commodity deflation.
I know you gave it for the quarter but for kind of year-to-date.
Second the lower advertising again year-to-date.
And then really the total productivity.
And here I'm talking about both kind of direct RCI benefits plus any other productivity you've been able to realize and pull through.
I realize there are other factors involved than margin but I'm trying to isolate on those 3 and especially the third bucket the productivity bucket as the feel for kind of what the total run rate is on gross productivity in the business right now.
Thanks Steve.
Okay let me handle those.
So let me start with commodities and LIFO.
You really need -- for your purpose in terms of trying to understand margin structure of the business which I think is where that question goes to let's not worry too much about what happened with LIFO last year because on a full year basis it simply negated the cost inflation we took the year before when the apple prices went up.
So as I've said the net effect of that in the quarter was 160 basis points.
And as I just told John if you think about that deflation for the year it's up 80 basis points.
So the way we would think about this is you look at current costs as they sit today you add 80 basis points to last year's margin that creates at least with respect to that item a sort of new baseline margin.
When it comes to -- as I've said in the quarter about 65 basis points of productivity some of that is RCI but actually a large portion of that came from some renegotiated vendor and supplier agreements.
And that's good news because of course those will in fact continue over the duration of those agreements.
Steve am I missing a third part of that? Research Division</strong> I mean I think you said A&amp;P was down $17 million or $18 million in the quarter.
What was it down for the first half? It's $25 million for the first half.
Remember that this was planned.
Don't forget we're lapping the introduction a year ago of the Core TEN products.
And I said in my prepared remarks we still spent 7.8% of sales this quarter.
A year ago with that program it was 9.1%.
So we're tracking where we want to be and I'm here to tell you and Larry would tell you based on what we see in terms of our activities and programs the A&amp;M we're going to roll out in the fourth quarter that I think is going to be -- going to hit somewhat head on what's happening in the diet category when you see our new college football championship trophy program that's tied in with Dr Pepper work.
We're feeling good about our spend and we don't think we need to spend any more.
And we continue to apply the rigor.
We're trying to get better at it in terms of marketing ROI and trying to find every dollar that's not working for us to work somewhere else.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just on the pricing side of things as you say Larry things are rational.
We've heard that from your peers as well which is great to hear.
But the skeptic in me says it's rational in an environment where commodities really are a factor retailers are actively promoting the category and right now volumes are trending better than a lot of folks.
I think even -- I mean I think when we spoke in March you were looking at categories -- category volumes down maybe 2% or 3%.
And we're obviously a lot better than that so far this year.
So in the -- how do you feel about sort of the rationality of pricing over time if any of those factors get a bit worse? Do you have confidence that kind of rationality will hold? And if not what contingency plans does DPS have in place? I feel very confident it'll hold.
And if you kind of look at what we've experienced in the last 18 months I mean going to this year and last year when there was discounting Steve there wasn't a volume pickup.
I think everyone's learned some great lessons from that not just the bottling community our competitors and peers but also the customers.
And so we're seeing -- most of our growth we're seeing is in the sugar products.
And as everyone knows the diets are what's really hitting us now.
And to Marty's point we think we have some programs put together for later this year that are going to take that head on.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Marty the gross margin clarity was helpful but I'm still struggling to understand why you weren't flowing through more of the earnings upside we saw in the first half of the year to full year guidance because it seems like volume is coming in a bit better than expected so far this year or maybe at worst in line with your original expectations.
The pricing environment looks rational in the U.S.
as you indicated.
Mexico top line results have come in much better than expected.
Commodities are more favorable.
RCI savings and productivity have ramped up.
So I guess I'm just struggling to figure out what the offset is to these positives that limits you to only a modest positive full year earnings revision versus the first half upside that we saw from an earnings standpoint.
Dara thanks.
I think you've summarized it well and so I'll respond with simply one word.
It's we're midyear and we want to be cautious.
You are correct.
Mexico outperforming our expectations coming into the year given the uncertainty of the tax.
U.S.
business performing better on the top line than we thought.
And we've got some cost increases I called out.
We're going to lap some things in the fourth quarter that were really onetime health and wellness and adjustment from last year we're going to have some other inflation.
But if I -- when I still put all that together I give you a one-word answer.
It's at this point to the middle of year we want to remain somewhat cautious.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the advertising spending line I guess it sounds like the ROI payback that you guys are getting and the efficiencies you're realizing there that's more of a continuous program that will last beyond the efficiencies we've seen the last few quarters here.
Is that a fair way to look at it in that you don't need to kind of re-boost spending after the declines this year just because it's more based on efficiency and productivity in terms of marketing spending? Yes Dara.
When we were -- we're 7.5%.
If you go back historically we've last throughout you would say between 7.5% and 8% over the years.
The ROI program -- the analytics behind the program we're really pleased with.
But I'm also going to tell you just like RCI we're in the early stages of really developing the rigor and discipline but we're working at it really hard and we've seen some payback the other thing I remind everybody all the time is that to some degree your ability to spend and therefore implement marketing programs has to still find its way through the funnel of your sales teams in terms of what they can how much they can execute during a given time frame not just inside the company but actually asking customers to do at the same time.
You can't bring them too many things all at once.
It's just not possible.
So there is a little bit of a governor if you will on that which people don't really ever talk about.
And when you don't follow that governor what happens is you throw a lot of money in marketing.
And then you wonder why you're not getting the payback and you realize because you asked your sales force to do 10 things instead of 5 things really well.
And we pay a lot of attention to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry I just wanted to get your assessment about the Dr Pepper brand performance.
Sequentially a little bit better down 4% in Q1 down 1% in second quarter but maybe lagging some of your other CSD brands here.
So just maybe give us a little bit more perspective on where you think the brand stands.
I think you've shown some relevant scores that still shows improvement but kind of where do you think there may be more work to do to hear in terms of really rejuvenating the brand Dr Pepper volume? Judy as you said I mean it was a great improvement from Q1 minus 4% to minus 1%.
We feel very confident with Dr Pepper.
Our issue Judy is Diet.
Diet has taken us down.
As I mentioned earlier we have -- when we're all over it we're really big and deep into it.
And we have programs for the second half that we think are really going to take this on.
We have some specific programming we're doing but also tying our diets into our football program.
And the team is very confident.
Our bottling partners are very confident that Dr Pepper the brand strengths are good the fountain foodservice numbers are good and as we get to address this diet situation we'll be able to get our Dr Pepper volumes back up for where they used to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty if I could just follow up on the margin just maybe ask it a little bit differently.
So in the fourth quarter of this year why do you think the commodity trends will turn inflationary? What are some of the drivers of going from deflation to inflation? And then thinking about just specifically for packaged beverages because it seems like that's where you really saw pretty significant margin expansion in the second quarter at least.
So the impact in terms of the product mix that's having on the margin and how that pulls through in the back half of the year.
Okay.
Judy let me start with the packaged beverages.
Yes they had an operating -- nice operating income improvement in the second quarter and they did receive the bulk of the commodity deflation in their cost of goods.
But they also benefited from -- at the operating income line from some of the increases in the allied brands Larry mentioned a number of them Vita Coco et cetera and they also had productivity gains.
As I said we didn't really in packaged beverages realized any true pricing drop.
So there was a mixed story a commodity deflation story and a little bit of productivity story.
Your first question in terms of the Q4 guidance and margins is simply the timing okay of our current cost trends.
We're fairly well hedged now for the year not completely but fairly well hedged and well into the 90% range of some of our key input items.
And it's just the comparison against last year.
So it's just -- that's just the timing the way it flowed through the quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just remind me how much of your volume is now on the allied brands volume or sales whatever metric you guys look at? I don't -- maybe 3 -- maybe a tad more.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more details in terms of Snapple.
What percentage of your volume you characterize as value what percent premium and what efforts you see over the next 12 months or so to kind of reignite that brand and what the competitive environment looks like? I think if you look at the Snapple -- let's start with the value.
I mean we went out with the value brand specifically for some strategic reasons 2 years ago.
If you remember we always say that we pursue profitable volume profitable channels and packages.
We accomplished what we wanted to do with the value.
Snapple is a premium tea.
We will always consider it a premium tea.
That's where we want to put our focus.
That's where we want to get our growth.
We have a lot of great innovation coming along with Snapple.
You heard some of the things we're doing with marketing and some of our sponsorships.
We've got some LTOs that we're looking at for later in the year next year plus continued R&amp;D on looking at different ways to different sweeteners different types of teas keeping the excitement that the Snapple consumers used to have in a variety.
And so we feel very good with the plans we have in place for Snapple.
We just want to deemphasize the value piece of it.
It's really only about 10% of our total -- I don't know the exact number but that's roughly a correct number 10% of the total.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And then some of your competitors are making a very large effort to drive mix through smaller pack sizes.
Just wondering what you think about those efforts and what your plans are? We -- especially with Dr Pepper we participate in those plans and any packages they have.
We have our Pepper and Diet Pepper in them.
So we think they are good plans where we do a wide range of different packaging.
That's where Marty talked about we really try to balance not only price but our mix.
Where can we get a better margin on a certain package.
And I think the biggest thing is giving our consumer a choice.
I mean they have a broad choice of the packages and that also helps in the calorie intake.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Marty looking at the beverage concentrate volume trends for the back half especially if you look at the fourth quarter much easier comps.
Should we assume that the flattish volume in the back half is doable? I don't want to go into specific segment expectations but only to remind you that when you go back and look at trends and look at the first half don't forget we had a big benefit in the first quarter we talked about that we thought was volume that was -- that we didn't get in December the prior quarter whether it was bottlers lowering inventories whether it was them waiting for us to put out our new higher yield concentrate.
So we had a big upside in Q1 and that would not be expected to continue.
Beyond that we don't want to comment too much on specific quarterly trends other than my prepared remarks wherein we said when we look at trends in the first half and we think about what I just said and take that out and look where the bottler case sales are our cautiousness is to view that volume softening in the second half.
Got it.
And then looking at [indiscernible] volumes pretty solid volume growth there as well.
Have you recovered -- or are you seeing positive volume trends in your sugar portfolio? Or is that all sale being driven by non-sugar portfolio? Actually it's not.
So the sugared portion is actually declining somewhat as we predicted given the higher pricing.
All the growth is in innovation although one of the really strong pockets of innovation happens to still be a sugared beverage and is subject to the tax.
It's some flavor extensions in the Peñafiel line.
But our mineral water business is doing really well and obviously they had great -- they have had great growth in the first half of the year.
Got it.
And then final one.
And you talked about the allied brands or the cold pack brand.
Are they good margin business for you? Amit yes okay? And they are relatively higher dollar value cases and they are good dollar profit cases.
The way though to think about -- and they're really important to us and they're growing.
And strategically it speaks to our ability to either seek out or have others seek us out -- entrepreneurs who create these products that will probably end up creating this product somewhat better than larger companies would not that we can't.
And we have the opportunity as we've said in the past to see every one of these when they are looking for distribution and these are the partners we've signed up whether it's Vita Coco we've had for a while Larry talked about Bai many have seen that product in the market Fruit2O.
One of our strengths and advantages is offering up our DSD system to take advantage of growing categories and growing products that are created by these partners.
And it is a very good business for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to the marketing but more like from a different angle and I guess even a bit theoretical.
So obviously down this year some $30 million but efficiency moving up but this within the context while your competitors seem to be taking up marketing levels in North America but yet it doesn't seem to be hurting your market share position at least as of yet.
So if you could discuss a little bit about monitoring a brand health and your share of voice currently.
And I guess sort of just give a level of comfort that there's not some sort of risk maybe to catch us up over time with respect to your brand as you're cutting levels now.
I think you said it right there with the -- we monitor it very closely and all of our brand scores are increasing.
They're becoming stronger.
We've also -- we've not lost any share.
And I'll go back to what I said a moment ago.
We measure what we're getting an activation and the deliverables instead of just what they cost us.
If you remember fourth and first quarter both we talked about we moved some from national that we were able to put national media and the local that we could activate and activate not only with our bottlers but with specific customers very account-specific marketing.
So if you take out the TEN from last year I mean we're not spending any less but we're also not driving a TEN.
We're also going much more to the digital.
The digital is I think one that we're all in the process of trying to learn more about but is also being very very successful for us.
So we don't really have any concerns at all on what we're spending.
I think Marty has said it probably a dozen times we have not said no to anything.
I mean if we need to spend on something we will.
But we're not seeing that need.
We're delivering our plans we're delivering what we said we would do and getting better results than we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more brief ones for me.
Just on Hawaiian Punch any update there? Do you guys plan on doing anything differently as volumes continue to be under a bit of pressure and understanding it's a lower-margin brand for you guys? No.
I mean you said it's big on volume but -- on the top line but it doesn't do a lot to the bottom line so it helps a lot on our mix.
It's still a very important brand to us a very important brand to our customers.
We'll constantly look at it make sure we have it in the right package and everything like that.
But as far as putting it in specific programs -- I mean if you look at the Nielsen and if you look at the category it's not just Hawaiian Punch it's kind of a category issue.
We've got some peers and some competitors in there that are suffering the same way.
So that's something we don't want to throw money after that we don't think would turn it around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one for me.
Just the bottler case sale volumes in CSDs seem to be stronger than the syndicated data in the quarter.
Any color on that? Kevin that includes Peñafiel.
So it includes our CSD business in Mexico.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions -- or actually just related to bottling.
And if you look at I guess where Coke and Pepsi have headed directionally in terms of business model in North America Pepsi seems content to continue to go on with an integrated model and Coke is seemingly wanting to move into a more -- into a franchise model.
So I guess from your perspective first how would -- how do you see that affecting your business? If the Coke system moves into more of a franchise business essentially you have more I guess potentially franchise customers to sell into versus a more consolidated Pepsi system.
And then second just Larry maybe your views on just which one do you think is sort of the optimal for this market.
I probably wouldn't answer that one for you.
A couple a lot of people you should ask that.
Now if you look at -- I mean I think they're both great systems.
I mean you look at us I mean you can tell we like them both.
I mean we have 40% that's company owned 40% third party 10% fountain foodservice and 10% that is warehouse direct.
So we're happy with our system.
We see no changes -- I mean with Coke franchising more the people they're franchising territories to are our current customers now.
And they do a very nice job for us.
We cover them at headquarters and at their locations.
And so we look at it and say it's a win-win for us.
We don't see any downfall.
Research Division</strong> Does it add more complexity to your business just simply because there's more people to call on or the business is -- I guess this is probably more related just to Dr Pepper but does that add any complexity? Not really because we -- even with -- at the size of Pepsi we still call on their BUs and their market units and their business units.
And so we still have the people out there.
It's -- on the Coke side I mean we do our annual sales meetings where we have the same plans we meet with the teams.
So the Coke system knows the teams the Pepsi system knows the team and our independent system knows the team and the plan for that year.
So we don't really see any more complexity.
Research Division</strong> We all tend to kind of look at it from an investment angle or kind of what would be the most efficient or yield the greatest returns.
But from your perspective if you flip it and look at it from a retailer's lens do you think they would rather have a consolidated model maybe more flexibility in terms of how the product comes into them whether it's 2-step DSD DSD warehouse like -- do you think they have a view on that? Or have you heard? I do have a view.
They love DSD.
I mean that will -- that's been proven over and over especially with the velocity and the weight of our products.
I think a few years ago you would've heard a different story from our retail partners out there.
Today I think all 3 of us do a very very good job speaking with one voice.
I think we're aligned well with our bottlers.
We can go in and quickly speak with one voice and have a program for a national retailer.
And so I applaud the work we've all done on working that together and realizing the changing landscape for the retail environment.
So I don't think our retailers would see that big of a difference.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And Marty you did a more effective job defending your gross margin guidance than Tim Howard did in the World Cup.
I hope that's a compliment.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going to take a bigger picture.
Have you sort of targeted what you think your SG&amp;A ratio could go down to? Because I know it's a different commodity environment but you went back all the way to like 2008 obviously your G&amp;A costs were much lower as a percentage of sales.
Advertising was higher.
You made great progress the last 3 or 4 years.
But do you think there's sort of an ongoing opportunity to kind of get back to where you were before? Bill I'll say what I always said.
There is huge opportunity.
There's a lot of waste in a lot of processes.
There's huge opportunity for improvement.
So the way we're going to get it is through RCI through kinds of events.
We don't cookie-cutter things.
We've got lots of great opportunities already.
And so I never really have boxed that I know it's been frustrating for some.
But I don't know that I actually can.
I'd probably underestimate it even if I did.
I'll tell you and then there are some structural things we're doing.
Bryan just mentioned about where the beer distributors sort of fit in the model.
We actually have done this in certain of our lower-scale markets.
So it's our way of saying we know RCI can improve a lot but sometimes in lower-scale markets maybe we need structural change.
We've actually done that in a few markets.
We haven't realized all that potential yet but some of the numbers I've seen have suggested that there's probably $3 million to $5 million of flow-through incremental profitability and a lot of that is taken out the G&amp;A.
So look we're enthusiastic about what those opportunities are.
I simply can't frame it for you.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And maybe -- do you know what caused the bloat like the last 5 or 6 years? Because it seems like it was up and then it went -- it was down and went up the costs and then they sort of come down again.
So is there sort of a way to -- maybe just to undo what happened there? I can't.
I don't have any data in front of me.
And we don't spend too much time looking backwards.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just very quickly.
Have you sort of changed your tune on acquisitions? I know you talked about some of these great allied brands that you love the growth profile you love the revenue per case and obviously the balance sheet is fairly underlevered right now.
So have you sort of changed your view on doing deals? No.
We look at all of them Bill.
And as I've said many times we remain committed to 2 things: One being very shareholder friendly; and number two we're not going to overpay for something.
Some of these multiples that are out there are ridiculous.
And I love these young entrepreneurs but they all want to have the next Glasso [ph] deal.
And we'll be very prudent in what we do with them.
And we're very happy on being a distributor and can also pick up some equity stakes in them and we'll continue to do that going forward.
Thank you.
And I want to thank everyone for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.