Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the safe harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the safe harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
Continuing our strong performance for the first half of the year our teams posted yet another quarter of solid results in what continues to be an extremely challenged environment.
I'm proud of our people for remaining focused on building our brands executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving improvement across the organization with RCI.
And as you read in this morning's press release we've raised our full year EPS guidance range to $3.56 to $3.62 and now expect full year EPS to be up 11% to 13%.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% with CSDs and non-carbs each increasing 1%.
Positive price mix also drove 1%.
Brand Dr Pepper declined 2% in the quarter primarily driven by continued declines in our diet products.
Our Core 4 brands grew 3% in the quarter led by continued strong growth in Canada Dry which grew 8%.
Sunkist increased 1% in the quarter and both 7UP and A&amp;W were flat.
Hawaiian Punch declined 2%.
Snapple increased 2% in the quarter with Snapple Premium up mid-single-digits offsetting losses on our value line which we have strategically deemphasized.
Mott's decreased 1% in the quarter on declines in sauce.
Peñafiel increased 25% as we continue to see strong performance in our mineral water business and successful innovation that we launched in the third quarter of last year.
All other brands increased by 1% in the quarter led by Schweppes which experienced a high single-digit increase reflecting growth in our sparkling waters and positive ginger ale category trends.
Clamato grew 7% in the quarter and our water category increased 3% on new distribution agreements with Bai 5 and Sparkling Fruit2O and continued strong growth in Vita Coco.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales were flat on 2 points of positive mix in price.
Dr Pepper bottler case sales declined 2% and our Core 4 brands increased 2% year-to-date.
Hawaiian Punch declined 8% while Snapple was flat.
Mott's decreased 1% and Peñafiel increased 23%.
All other brands were flat year-to-date.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 3% in the quarter on favorable segment mix product and package mix and net pricing primarily driven by price increases taken to cover the sugar tax in Mexico.
Core operating income increased 6% on favorable cost of sales trends and ongoing productivity improvements that were partially offset by higher performance-based incentive compensation costs higher transportation costs and increased manufacturing costs.
Core EPS increased 11% in the quarter.
Year-to-date currency-neutral net sales increased 2% core income from operations increased 14% and core EPS has increased 23%.
As we finish out the year I think you'll agree we have strong plans in place to continue our momentum by engaging our targeted consumers and giving our retail and bottling partners activity they can get excited about.
The 2014 college football season is off to an exciting start and we've kicked off a multiyear partnership with ESPN.
Dr Pepper is the first official college football championship partner and the presenting sponsor of the new National Championship Trophy.
We'll deliver over 2 billion media impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms across all of ESPN's properties ensuring that we're always on.
And we're continuing with our Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway giving away $100 000 in tuition to the winner of each throw at the championship games.
We recently debuted a new Diet Dr Pepper media spot celebrating the great taste of Diet Dr Pepper.
And as Halloween approaches we're partnering with Mars in driving incremental points of interruption throughout retail on our Core 4 brands.
We know music is a passion point for Hispanics so we're sponsoring the 15th Annual Latin GRAMMYs in November where we'll sponsor street parties in key Hispanic markets and offer consumers a chance to win a trip to attend the show in Las Vegas.
We'll light up the holiday mixer season with incremental points of interruption and retail activation behind 7UP Canada Dry and Schweppes and we'll have new holiday themed point-of-sale and merchandising to drive additional activity behind our Snapple brand.
Speaking of Snapple we're excited about our upcoming launch of Snapple Straight Up teas in early 2015.
As consumer preferences in the tea category continue to evolve we know that our new line of unflavored teas will be a hit with consumers.
And as we previously communicated we continue to test our naturally sweetened versions of Dr Pepper 7UP and Canada Dry which are only 60 calories per 12-ounce can and sweetened with real sugar and the latest generation of Stevia blends.
Based on our test results we'll be expanding the brands next year into additional regional markets.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through further information on our financial results and our full year guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 3% on favorable segment mix product and package mix and net pricing driven primarily by the price increase in Mexico to cover the sugar tax.
Sales volumes were flat in the quarter.
Reported gross margins were up 50 basis points increasing from 57.9% last year to 58.4% this year.
Lower commodity costs inclusive of the year-over-year unfavorable $7 million LIFO comparison increased gross margins by 140 basis points.
RCI productivity and other cost improvements further increased gross margins by 70 basis points.
Segment mix and product and package mix collectively reduced gross margins by 90 basis points.
Furthermore certain promotional activity in the quarter reduced gross margins by another 20 basis points.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax reduced gross margins by 40 basis points as our pricing as always intended was only to cover the tax.
Within manufacturing costs we expensed about $5 million of individual small spare parts -- individual small dollar spare parts so as to lower nonvalue administrative costs.
This reduced gross margins by 30 basis points.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $2 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on commodity hedges with a $6 million loss recorded in SG&amp;A and a $4 million gain recorded in cost of goods sold.
This compares to a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year all recorded in SG&amp;A.
This favorable mark-to-market comparison within cost of goods sold increased reported gross margins by 20 basis points.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation increased by $18 million driven by $7 million of higher performance-based incentive compensation costs $7 million of planned higher transportation costs an unfavorable comparison to a $6 million credit to a legal provision in the prior year and the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Similar to last year we recorded certain unplanned health and wellness and risk insurance favorable cost true-ups in the quarter.
And as a reminder last year's SG&amp;A included $7 million of cost associated with certain restructuring actions.
Depreciation and amortization was flat at $28 million in the quarter.
Core operating income was $318 million compared to $300 million last year up 6%.
Core operating margin of 20.1% of net sales was up 70 basis points from 19.4% last year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was $27 million $2 million below last year.
Our reported effective tax rate for the quarter was 34% lower than the 35.5% previously expected as we received a onetime tax benefit.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the 9 months was $769 million up significantly from $616 million; and capital spending was $103 million compared to $111 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $666 million compared to $505 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders year-to-date were $513 million with $276 million in shares repurchased and $237 million in dividends.
Before I move on to guidance let me give a quick update on how we continue to drive value with RCI through our lean tracks.
Our commitment to building an everlasting RCI culture at Dr Pepper is continuing to drive significant improvements across many areas of our business.
I know many of you still believe RCI is a cost reduction process so let me provide a few examples of using the tools and framework of RCI to create growth.
Using our RCI cap or problem-solving process on a key account customer basis including one customer's involvement in this process we've added incremental points of distribution across our single-serve juice portfolio resulting in 50 basis points of dollar share growth in the single-serve multi-pack juice segment.
Additionally in using a similar process we've closed thousands of distribution voids on our Snapple Premium business across several key markets achieving high single-digit sales growth in each of those markets measured after the changes were implemented.
And we worked with one of our major distribution partners to improve Dr Pepper display tie-in rates in a major metro area that included the adoption of standard work routines for account managers and merchandisers for handling our products.
With regard to productivity our inventory reductions have enabled us to eliminate approximately 700 000 square feet of warehouse space in 2014 all of which has been monetized.
Our reductions in driver checkout times are allowing us to run more routes per week and our many other RCI productivity improvements are enabling us to significantly offset the headwinds of general cost inflation.
Now moving on to 2014 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's release we have now raised our core EPS guidance to a range of $3.56 to $3.62 on a full year net sales increase of about 1%.
As a reminder our core fourth quarter EPS of $0.97 last year was quite strong as we recorded a $14 million LIFO benefit in cost of goods sold and $9 million in health and wellness cost true-ups both of which are nonrecurring in this year's fourth quarter.
These items added about $0.08 to last year's EPS.
For the year we now expect sales volumes to be closer to flat with CSDs roughly flat based on strong Core 4 and Peñafiel performance.
We expect our non-carb portfolio to decline low single digits driven by Hawaiian Punch.
Year-to-date concentrate shipment volumes have trended ahead of bottler case sales sell-through.
Therefore we do expect an inventory correction in the fourth quarter in the Beverage Concentrates segment.
As a reminder Dr Pepper is the largest brand in this segment and its bottler case sales have declined 2% year-to-date.
As we communicated previously we expect packaging and ingredients deflation for the full year.
This is now expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of the year-over-year LIFO comparison by approximately 2.5% on a constant volume mix basis driven by better-than-expected sweetener and PET costs.
However we expect approximately 1% cost of goods inflation in the fourth quarter which included a $14 million LIFO credit.
After considering all these items 2014 gross margins should be slightly better than last year for the full year but down year-on-year in the fourth quarter.
Higher transportation costs are now expected to add about $20 million of expense in 2014 with about $5 million of the increase being recorded in the fourth quarter.
We have also identified some additional brand building opportunities to invest behind in the fourth quarter which we expect to increase marketing costs by $7 million compared to last year.
And finally within SG&amp;A we also expect an increase of approximately $2 million in American Beverage Association fees in the fourth quarter.
We continue to expect foreign exchange translation to lower net sales by approximately 50 basis points for the full year and reduce core EPS by $0.01 in the fourth quarter.
Below segment operating profit net interest expense will now be around 4.3% on our $2.5 billion of debt and our full year core tax rate is now expected to be approximately 35%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending will be approximately 3% of net sales and we are on track to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject to market conditions.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our priorities remain unchanged.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long term and we'll continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
We're committed to providing consumers with options to address their evolving needs and lifestyles.
RCI continues to drive meaningful improvements in the organization.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash flow to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question is I'm still trying to understand how you're thinking about your business from a top line perspective over the long term given the continued pressures for not only your company but certainly the industry in general.
And then how you're going to balance this pressure with the higher fixed cost ratio.
Marty I know you touched on this a little in terms of your RCI efforts which have been very strong.
But is there something else that gives you confidence to be able to balance this over the long term? And thinking about your business model the soft top line growth is that truly sustainable? The short answer Bonnie is it sustainable? Yes.
So let's go back and take it from the top and I'll remind everybody nothing's changed in our long-term view.
Remember we said with respect to CSDs we could be flattish in CSDs as a total category and then roll non-carbs in at low- to mid-single digit growth rates.
Recently the Hawaiian Punch has been the Achilles' heel to that.
But remember that when we grow Clamato when we grow Mott's the profit contribution and the mix effect of that is a really strong positive.
So that drives a lot of profitability.
But in terms of those categories those are sort of the top line dynamics before we talk about whatever pricing we overlay on there in addition to the annual concentrate price increase.
So that sort of gives us that low single-digit top line which is admittedly below the 3% to 5% we talked 2 years ago.
And that's been off the table for a long time.
RCI has a long runway.
I try to give you folks as much of the anecdotes as I can but it is creating enormous opportunity in terms of improvement in -- I'm not sure what your question -- your question goes to fixed costs.
We've actually acknowledged that some parts of our business need a structural change and we've done some of this in smaller markets where we clearly don't have the scale and volume to apply all the tools of RCI and get improvements.
We've actually gone to third-party distribution partners in a handful of markets that have -- those have worked really well for us.
So we'll do those where we can and where we think it makes sense but there's just a lot of cost opportunity.
And when we overlay a couple of percent of the top line get some incremental margin expansion through productivity efforts drive that down to an increase at the operating line greater than that top line increase a little bit of below-the-line leverage and we get a nice mid-ish single digit earnings growth number that when you tack on share repurchases and you tack on dividend you know we think gives that 10-ish low double-digit total shareholder return which is all we aspire to do.
And we think our plans are aligned with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Larry I just wanted to focus on what you just said.
You finished your comment with sort of like high single low double-digit total shareholder return.
Given that earnings growth is going to be touching low double-digit for this year and very high single-digit for last year as well and RCI continues to be very strong are you prepared to be a little bit more positive about earnings growth for next year? Can you get to the high single-digit earnings growth? Or internally as the view changing that perhaps we can start to be a little bit more positive about driving earnings growth through the system as well.
This is Marty.
Let me handle that question.
Remind everybody for the last 2 years we've had a lot of earnings growth driven by cost of goods favorable trends.
And nobody would predict that to continue.
So everything I just said assumes a more level cost of goods environment.
But you can't -- these have been extraordinarily good years driven by lots of favorability.
I applaud our procurement people.
I think we've done a wonderful job against what we read about others in our space in terms of our cost trends.
But we can't -- nobody would predict that to continue.
By the way the good news for us is then I would say that that earnings improvement has been a combination of not only the cost of goods improvement but the fact that the marketplace pricing has allowed that to sustain and not get competed away.
And maybe that's because our trends are so much more favorable than others seem to say theirs are.
So you have to take that off the table and move to a more normal state.
Nothing's changed in terms of our excitement about the business at all.
We've enjoyed the last 2 years of cost of goods favorability.
Great.
And then Larry if I may just ask one more on pricing that Marty alluded to.
Clearly very clear pricing discipline from the industry.
And if you listen to the other 2 bigger players they have talked about packaging as a driver of that mix as well.
How far along are you in terms of bringing that mix component of price mix into the sales growth line? Yes we're involved in it now.
And you've got to remember with my partners out there 40% of our total is in the packages they have.
So we're very familiar with which ones work and which ones don't and what we have in ours.
You'll see us continue to innovate in package.
I believe that packaging innovation is as strong as brand innovation and LTOs on keeping the excitement and something new out there in the category.
So we're up to speed on it and we'll continue to increase it.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
So how much do you think is left in RCI? And is there a way to sort of disaggregate like what is pure cost savings versus revenue synergies? Because I think one of the more interesting things is like a lot of it has driven incremental revenue.
And then maybe if there's an opportunity to sort of cascade some of the stuff which have been mostly cost of goods sold focused to the G&amp;A line.
Because I know that you're a smaller company.
But if you benchmark your just pure corporate overhead to some of your peers it's a little bit high a couple of hundred basis points.
Okay Bill let me extend a few -- let me just dismiss the last piece.
I don't think you can compare unallocated corporate costs across companies because you've got to know what's in corporate and what's in the segment.
So that's a comparison that's even hard for us to do.
In terms of RCI look there is -- when I see unlimited opportunity of course it's not unlimited.
But do we -- is there a limitation that we think we're facing right now? The answer is no.
If I talked to you a few years ago and told you that even absent commodities the improvements driven solely by RCI were achievable I think many of you would have challenged that.
We beat the estimate we -- the first 3-year estimate we originally put out there.
The things we're doing across the organization that are actually affecting costs there is still a whole robust group of projects.
I just want to call out this morning to remind people that you can actually use a lot of these tools to help create some elements of growth and that we're as much focused on the blocking and tackling that comes from doing those kinds of programs as we are on pure productivity.
Productivity only follows and cost reduction only follows from getting rid of waste and so it never really becomes a direct focus.
I called out this morning the benefits of lower inventories shedding unnecessary warehouse space which reduces the footprint costs.
It has reduced break-shrink cost obsolescence cost.
Inventories are turning faster.
So there's lots of attendant improvements.
And most important -- most importantly my comment about how important that is for us to beat back what's otherwise going to be externally -- external pressures on inflation in costs.
And that's going to become our model.
We're going to defray those as best we can with improvements so we can see our top line benefits actually flow through to increased profitability.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's super helpful.
And then just on the refranchising it seems like it's kind of hitting an inflection at Coke.
Do you have any data on who's more productive like a pure Coke-owned bottler versus an independent affiliate bottler of Coke? So kind of how these changes are made? Will it be status quo? Or do you think it'll be a change in the business? How does the transition work et cetera? Well I don't have any of that.
And we don't track that so I wouldn't be able to answer that for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And then just one last quick one.
The sparkling water trends have been amazing obviously.
I know it's a relatively small category.
Do you think that's a trend? Or is it a fad? And like how could that be a considerable material component of your business in I don't know 3 to 5 years? I think it's a trend and you see us with it in our Peñafiel with the Schweppes and with Canada Dry.
We're putting a lot of programs together on it for this year and next and we believe it's here to stay.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty I just wanted to go back to the commodity outlook.
And if we sort of think about the fourth quarter swing to inflation if I kind of just take out the LIFO impact it does though seem like you're implying a little bit of less benefit in the fourth quarter just excluding the LIFO benefit but still somewhat deflationary in that context.
So maybe just clarification on sort of the swing from third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And then as you think about 2015 how much coverage do you have in place now? And given where kind of the sweetener prices are today oil prices et cetera can you give us any color just in terms of how you're thinking about 2015 commodity outlook? Yes.
So Judy I think you have it right for the fourth quarter.
I think you -- I can't say it any differently.
So I think you've boxed it right particularly considering the LIFO benefit last year.
And so that will be what it's going to be because of course for the balance of this year we're more or less 100% locked at this point.
For 2015 we'll comment more on 2015 when we have our February call.
I could tell you that across the key hedgeable commodities I would tell you we're anywhere from 30% to 70%.
It varies across.
For some of the more important ones I'll tell you that -- and a month from now I can tell you particularly with some of these we'll even be more hedged because our calendar of activities would say we'd be higher a month or so from now.
But we're where we're comfortable being.
Obviously the recent activity in the oil market should be good for PET better than previously and we're doing some things right now in PET to deal with that.
So we'll have to see where we land.
I'll give you more -- I'll have a better view of this in February but we feel comfortable where we're hedged.
We feel like we've got good management over the commodities that at this point are not so well-hedged but that's no different than any other year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay.
And then just on your marketing spending.
So Marty I think you said it's going up in the fourth quarter by $7 million.
But full year I imagine that it's -- you're still looking at the percent of sales in terms of marketing to be down similar to what you've indicated before.
Is that correct? Yes.
I think if my numbers are correct when you add the additional $7 million and if you want to think about it as a percent of sales it'll be 7.6%.
Maybe we were at 7.5%.
Yes down from 8.1% last year.
But I'll say it again we've told everybody we never expected to stay at that level.
We don't think we need to be at that level.
And the $2 million we're spend -- the $7 million we're spending or the $0.02 is simply because look we've got some plans that we moved forward a little bit in the calendar for 2015 and we're going to start spending behind them.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Yes.
And then Larry just -- if I can just follow up on your Dr Pepper trend.
And clearly the diet category continues to be one where there's still some pressure there.
But what are some of the actions that you're taking on maybe beyond the natural sweetened innovation? But just really the core product of Dr Pepper as itself in the diet side of the business what are you really trying to show some improvement on that trend? We're definitely trying to reverse the trend.
And if you -- and on my prepared remarks I mentioned we came out with a new campaign for Diet Dr Pepper.
That's driving the great taste of Diet Dr Pepper and so that media will be hitting.
And also with Pepper football the college football coming on board and the coverage we have out there we feel very bullish for the fourth quarter on what we can do with Pepper and going forward into 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on Judy's questions on Diet.
Larry can you just offer an update of your view of kind of the diet category? Have the declines stabilized? Are they reaccelerating? I mean there are some divergent trends that I'm seeing in the various Nielsen outlet data releases so I was hoping to get some all-outlet color from you on that please.
Yes.
It's -- I think it's very similar to what you're seeing there on the declines.
Like we've mentioned before we stay very concerned about it.
I mean when you have something out there that's declining at 7% that can bring the others down.
So that's why we're putting the new media campaigns together also continuing our push behind our TEN products.
Our TEN products we continue to get new distribution with them.
And I think sometimes it helps on having a product out there with 10 calories that doesn't say diet.
You said you know about our naturally sweetened but that's 60 calories.
So we'll continue to keep our media on the Diet especially Diet Dr Pepper.
We'll continue to push TEN.
And then another big piece for all of us is educating the consumer that there is nothing wrong with these diet products.
There is nothing wrong with aspartame.
It's one of the most tested food ingredients there are.
So we've all got a lot of work to do but it's also going to give us upside when we find the silver bullet.
LLC Research Division</strong> That sounds great.
And in terms of the expanded test for your natural 60-calorie offerings that you commented on in early '15 can you kind of dimensionalize kind of the expansion? Would it be notable? Will we see it? Or is it still really kind of discrete offerings really targeted trying to get more learnings out of the marketplace? Well right now we're tested in a market that we control where we have the 3 brands together in Texas Chicago and Des Moines.
And what we're going to do on this we really want to understand the consumer and the customer.
We're not going to be in no big hurry.
We want to understand where does it need to be who is the consumer where does the packaging pricing need to be.
We're going to test different formats.
And whether it starts to spread out I mean it'll be on how the results come in.
I mean of course if it's just stellar you'll see us go big time.
But right now we're just doing a wait and see.
We want all the information.
We want the data and then we'll make our decisions from that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sounds perfectly reasonable.
My last one is on Peñafiel which has clearly been just a home run with your new innovations on that brand.
Can you speak to the opportunity of expanding geographic distribution for Peñafiel specifically bringing it into the United States? Yes absolutely.
We're looking at -- in our Hispanic programs for the U.S.
we're bringing in the Peñafiel from Mexico.
So far it's just starting right now but we're very excited about the results we're seeing to date and we'll expand that as we go across our -- we have very targeted Hispanic markets that we work in and we're starting to get some real learnings from bringing the Peñafiel in from Mexico.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a few more brand-specific questions if I may.
And then to Judy's question Larry your plans to get momentum going again seem tied to media.
Is that right? And I guess specifically do you feel your share of voice is where it should be on that brand? Or is there another issue that you're contending with? Our brand health scores are fantastic.
I mean we couldn't be happier.
We're very happy.
But it's not just media Steve.
I mean the media doesn't work unless you have flawless retail execution out there.
And so we'll continue to strive for excellence in our merchandising and having the points of -- interruption incremental points of interruption.
So it's going to be a combination of basic blocking and tackling that the DSD business is all about.
Research Division</strong> So is that a -- is that a sort of an acceleration -- is that a -- that's not a distributor criticism is it? It's not -- is that -- is it different? Are you seeing different performance in Coke versus Pepsi versus your own system? Or is that just a...
Not at all.
Not at all.
Like I've said before I mean they're both fabulous partners and their results are very very similar.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Snapple can you talk just a little bit more about the strategic deemphasis of the value line? And is that more of a temporary or cyclical decision? Are you backing away from that value emphasis that was really put in place just a few years ago? Yes.
When we went out with it we told everybody it was strategic that it would be in certain markets.
And in the heartland it wouldn't be as heavy there.
It was going to be in some C&amp;G but it was never anything that we were looking at that we were going to do long term and take a focus off of premium.
Snapple is a premium product.
That's where we keep it.
That's where we put all of our focus and so it's just like with -- some of the value teas got down to where it was like the cheap bottled water.
And as we've always said from the time we went public I mean we pursue profitable brands and channels and packages.
And so it worked for us.
It got us in some markets especially in the Midwest we were not in before.
Now we have the premium in and that's where we're seeing our growth coming from the premium Snapple products.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So Straight Up is that further premium? Or is that just lateral? Straight Up will be an unflavored -- most of our -- most of the Snapple tea is flavored tea and -- flavored teas and juices.
This will be a straight-up tea.
It kind of goes back -- we had it years ago Steve when we had the super premium line but we're going to put it right in with our premium teas.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last question on free cash flow usage and the dividend specifically Marty.
I think the dividend was up only about 8% this year versus what's now going to be 12% EPS growth in the midpoint of your guidance which implies an actual drop in the payout ratio when I think you said repeatedly that your intention is to grow that metric.
So I know it's a Board decision but should we be expecting some kind of catch-up on that in '15 based on at least on what you'll be recommending to the board? You'll hear us talk about that in February.
Nothing's changed Steve.
I mean like we always said if we had a leaning or tendency between dividends and share repurchases we'd lean heavier into the dividend.
We do try to collect a lot of shareholder feedback.
You can imagine people are somewhat divided on this topic depending on who you talk to and their view of things.
So -- but yes I still think that's a true statement.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you on the non-carb portfolio and I guess building a bit on what Steve was asking.
To what extent do you think we really are at an inflection in your ability to take share at least have improving share performance in non-carbs which went from negative to positive in the quarter? And then I have a follow-up there.
I think in -- earlier in one of the questions or maybe in his remarks Marty mentioned that if you look at our non-carbs most of that -- of our decline is driven by Hawaiian Punch just one brand.
We've been very vocal with everyone and upfront that it's a lot of volume but it's not a lot of profit.
And you could tell by this quarter it's -- it was only down 2% so it's starting to flatten out a little bit.
And our other brands continue to grow and take share so we're very happy with that.
Mott's as a whole was down a little bit but that was driven by sauce.
The juice is still doing well.
So we feel very bullish that we can continue on our non-carbs.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Do you think this is an inflection in the total non-carb volume performance? It's not just a one-off quarter.
Do you think this is the beginning of an improved trend? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then from a profitability standpoint when you look -- when you think about GP dollars per case and putting aside percentage margins is it correct to think that that inflection is a net positive to your overall GP per case? Okay Mark.
It's Marty.
Let me -- so when you talk non-carbs let me throw some other products in there too.
So it's probably not a -- there's a lot of margin in Clamato a lot of margin in the Mott's line and a little -- and lesser so in Hawaiian Punch.
But also as we expand in some of the newer age category the Vita Coco Bai Fruit2O the profit contribution in dollar terms is good.
But remember we don't bottle these products.
We don't manufacture these products.
We have to purchase them as finished goods.
So if you would just look at the gross profit line you would see probably a lower level of gross margin.
But we like the profit on those cases.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the -- but at the GP line the absolute dollars on a per case basis are lower.
I mean I get the incrementality.
But at the GP line the dollars per case are lower.
Let me clarify again Mark because I said this in my prepared remarks.
When I talked about the negative impact of mix at the gross -- adjusted gross profit margin the percentage margin this is what I was partially referring to.
That we're selling more of these allied brands they're purchased products and the gross profit percentage all right is lower than you could say what else sort of the corporate average.
But the absolute dollars per case because these are higher dollar cases is very good profit for us.
Very attractive.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got it.
So in fact from a dollar perspective it's higher? Correct.
Right.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I did want to follow up a little bit on the non-carb piece which is if we look at the volume performance of your -- of Coke and Pepsi in the most recent quarter it seems as though the -- their 100% juice portfolios have gotten hit harder on some pricing.
And I guess do you guys have any brand switching information? What -- as volume comes out of those categories do you know where it's going? And is that benefiting let's say some of your 100% juice products or your juice drink portfolio or any of the rest of your non-carb businesses? So any idea where maybe that volume is sourcing from? Or are you just seeing greater share performance within those non-carb categories? It's a combination of both John.
I think we're getting a lot more on our execution out there -- better execution with the juices.
But we do know for a fact that you can go back and trend this as orange juice prices as the concentrate and the commodity would go up it seems like the first place that people go to is apple.
So there is some benefit there but we haven't seen enough of it right now to be able to dimensionalize that for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start Larry I guess with sort of your view on the profit pool in North America CSDs.
And it's kind of an interesting year because it seems like Coke has finally gotten some religion on price.
It seems like they took some incremental pricing earlier than usual this year as well usually go around Super Bowl time.
So I'm just sort of curious if you guys are more optimistic now on the -- on your outlook for profitability and maybe even profit growth given this dynamic here and how you sort of weigh this with the implications of volumes being down.
At least broadly in the category you guys have done modestly better historically.
How do you sort of weigh this given the elasticity and given the volume declines? Right.
We're going -- you hit it right on.
The pricing is good.
It's been good.
It's been disciplined now for what 3 years 3-plus? So that's very positive.
But we're still going to put a tremendous amount of focus on the volume side of it getting the right execution getting the CSDs back to where we're not having the declines which I think we're starting to see some progress.
We're seeing our sugared products grow.
As I mentioned earlier we're going to put a tremendous amount of time on diet.
So how do we correct the diet? How do we turn around that 7% decline? That could make the CSD category look healthy again if we can figure that one out.
Research Division</strong> Larry just one more for me guys if you don't mind.
How exactly do you view -- is the hope that you execute on the diet strategy? Coke is meeting with investors recently.
They're going after the heavier consumers within that which probably drives some 85% of consumption within diets.
Can you peel back the onion a bit? And is this going to be efforts through the ABA? Is this going to be targeted marketing at your higher frequency consumers? Maybe just a little bit more detail there will be helpful.
All of the above.
It's Marty.
You'll see some increased marketing efforts directed at diet as opposed to sort of the trademark brand.
And admittedly I'm going to admit that at least in our own business we can probably find areas where we haven't executed as well as we could have on diet.
And it's understandable from a field or a market perspective where even some of our own people have pulled back on some diet display activity because the brand is down.
And of course you've got to be careful.
That becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.
So we know -- we're not -- look we are not perfect at anything okay? And we'll -- we hope you never believe we are.
So we ourselves have looked at areas where we maybe haven't executed as well in the diet.
That has changed okay recently.
So yes more advertising directed at the proposition of the brand.
And even in our own system a little better execution.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could go into a little bit more detail on the TEN platform.
A year ago you talked about spending $30 million in '13 talked about another significant investment this year.
Perhaps you can give us a little bit more sense of how much you're investing this year and plans for next year.
And also last year you mentioned that about 51% of the sales came from outside of the category and so you were very happy about that in terms of it being additive.
Where does that stand now please? Yes.
It's still over 40% are people we've brought back to the category.
So that encourages us very much that we're on the right track there.
As far as spend I'll let Marty kind of walk through the spend here in a moment.
But Marty and I were just looking at some of the numbers and you see how well our core brands are doing.
I mean I really feel we're getting quite a halo effect across all these brands with our TEN with our regular with our diets.
So the brands are doing very well in that category and you'll see us continue to put a strong focus on TEN.
A lot more of the TEN now is going to be not as much maybe the media piece as execution.
We're continuing to get new availability.
Accounts that last year wouldn't give us incremental space are now giving it to us.
And I'll just reemphasize again.
I've told everybody these brands are not made overnight.
Understanding the consumer and the trends and the changes take time and we will stay after it and keep that TEN product out there in front of them.
Yes.
And Robert it's Marty.
In terms of the marketing we haven't finished our -- nailed down our complete marketing budget yet.
But what's interesting and many of you probably saw this in the advertising for the TEN brand we made a change and you may have seen it when you watched the ads on TV.
And this was a marketing return on investment learning and we applied it.
So we're going to actually be getting sort of better results for less money which is at the end of those ads you see us flash -- if it's a 7UP TEN you see us flash the other TEN.
This was -- actually that was not just something we thought would be a good idea.
It actually came out of some rigor in the analytics whether you want to call it halo effect to the other TENs when we made that change which the data would say we would get the same benefit as almost running separate commercials on each allowed us to spend less but get the same effectiveness.
So that's actually a great learning from MRI [ph].
We haven't set the actual dollars yet.
As Larry said it's execution.
There'll be dollars around sampling and other activities because the data is still compelling.
We get -- if we get trial we get good repeat.
We've got data that says we're bringing consumers in.
So that's not going to stop.
But what is important is we don't necessarily have to spend an absolute significant amount of increased money in marketing to get there.
Research Division</strong> Just -- what about the marketing spending this year as opposed to last year? Well this -- yes.
It was in the $25 million to $30 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's comparable? Comparable yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up you've talked in the past about some very interesting micro marketing programs in which you're taking a specific brand and really channeling it through social media to particular demographics.
Can you give us any update on those efforts and the kind of results that you're seeing and whether this is something that you're going to continue and expand? Yes.
It's still early but you can kind of tell by the numbers we've had some real success with 7UP especially the Hispanic millennials.
We're seeing 7UP up 1% and that's some of the things we're doing there.
We're trying to integrate the digital into all of our branding and marketing plans out there.
And as I said still early but everything we're seeing right now is telling us we're on the right track.
Research Division</strong> So should we expect additional programs next year? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I first wanted to just get a better sense of the volume growth gap between concentrates and finished goods.
It's been there for a little while.
It's clearly pretty prevalent this time around.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether it's kind of a nothing because it's a true-up on timing obviously in concentrates.
Or is it that concentrates obviously is much more diet-focused probably with the Diet Dr Pepper? Is it NCBs that are getting the bigger part of packaged beverages and so that's looking a lot better? Is it that your Coke and Pepsi partners aren't focused enough on the concentrates piece of the business? So like why is that gap there so prevalent this quarter? Well Ali it's Marty.
So it's been there and we have to think about okay end market sales versus what we're shipping.
If I -- for example if I just drill down to just the Dr Pepper brand okay and we talk about BCS being down a couple of points our actual shipment volume of Dr Pepper concentrate year-to-date 9 months over 9 months is only down half a point.
So we have to sit here and say okay is there buildup of concentrate inventory in the system? It could be an indication of that.
There could be other reasons why there's a difference.
But for the most part we have to be realistic and say okay if the end market pull-through is down 2% and we're not there for our planning purposes right we want to be realistic and assume that at some point those have to come in line not exactly in line.
And therefore that could predict lower shipments of concentrate in the fourth quarter plus whatever other dynamic goes on in the fourth quarter which would have happened a year ago anyway in terms of bottler behavior what they want to buy.
Do they want to buy ahead of the price increase which hasn't been announced yet or not? We haven't seen much of that in the past.
Whether they want to more diligently manage their year-end inventories down and postpone some purchasing and push it into January.
But even if the order slowdown occurs because there is some inventory correction as I called that yes I mean ultimately that would be timing in the sense that that would yield a much lower level of concentrate shipments here over in the fourth quarter but nowhere anywhere near what the BCS trends would tell us and then we'd expect to be back on those trends in the first quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize.
It's probably unclear.
I'm not asking that question which I think -- I mean I understand I think.
I'm asking in the 2 different businesses that you have the beverage concentrate business and the packaged beverage business.
So you have -- this quarter it was a negative 3% volumes in beverage concentrate plus 2% volumes packaged beverages.
Okay yes.
There I would say if you're just sort of looking and trying to isolate Q3 I'll tell you these -- the beverage concentrate business is obviously heavily dominated to Dr Pepper and packaged beverages is not.
So -- and while Larry talked about Dr Pepper -- and he mentioned a few things when we look at what happened just in Q3 there are a lot of timing issues and events.
So...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's what I'm trying to get at right? I'm trying to understand that.
Let me give them to you okay? So for example everybody knows one of our partners ran a big promotion in the quarter last year right that helped our volume last year.
We're lapping that this year.
Larry talked about football with some major retailers.
I won't name them but they're pretty significant.
Last year we had football activity starting a little earlier in September.
For planning purposes this year those got pushed back to October.
So we've still got the same energy behind football but we were able to capture some of that in last year's quarter and we're lapping that too.
So probably those were not small occurrences.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So it's more timing than the diets part of Dr Pepper really pushing it down or NCBs getting much better? No it's more timing yes.
There are lots of program activities from a year ago that had a negative lapping effect this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
On Hawaiian Tropics specifically -- sorry Hawaiian Punch specifically how much is the improvement lapping the shelf space losses you had last year at a major retailer? And so that's the benefit? And is this kind of a steady state we should expect kind of negative? Or is it actual kind of comp stores shelf space stable that things are getting better? Yes.
We're looking at it basically is it's going to flatten now.
So I mean you're probably not going to see the growth you've seen before.
I mean the shelf -- as far as shelf space that doesn't concern us as much as getting the activity out in the end caps and then the right display activity.
So yes we're still very confident with it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay so planning out there.
And then the last question and it draws on a little bit Marty what you said earlier kind of tying 2 things together.
So as you kind of close your eyes and think forward in the current company structure do you have a sense of what the ultimate operating margins could be for the company? Because you've obviously done a very good job at pushing those with RCI and other things.
So what's kind of the ultimate in this current structure? And then given what you said a second ago a little while ago now about in-pockets delegating some of the bottling operations to other third parties do you ever think about doing that on a bigger scale and actually becoming a fully concentrate company and having your bottling businesses effectively be separate sort of like what you're hearing from Coke? Is that something that you think is the next stage of structure or not really? So 2 questions in there.
We're pleased with how we're set right now.
You've heard me say before.
We're 40% company-owned 40% third-party 10% food service 10% warehouse direct.
And we feel that is a very good split for us.
Ali in terms of the first part of your question margin structure of the company I don't have a number where we reach our limit.
The only thing you have to think about and everybody knows is that to the extent mix changes across the segment -- concentrates has got higher margins than packaged beverages.
And to the extent we get more growth in packaged beverages sure the overall corporate margin could come down but the dollars of profit would be greater.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached our allotted time for questions.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Larry Young for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
I want to thank everybody for joining us today on the call and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.