Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
We respectfully request a limit of one question per person.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President-Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor Statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These future statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update the forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors' page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young President and CEO and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Heather and good morning everyone.
As you saw on this morning's release we once again posted another quarter of strong results in a continuously challenged environment.
Our teams remained focused on our key priorities.
We're driving better execution in the marketplace and continued engagement with our consumers through relevant and innovative programming.
Our continuous improving capabilities surrounding marketing return on investment trade promotion effectiveness and the organization-wide depth and breadth of RCI initiatives are contributing significantly to our growth and improvements in productivity.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 2% on 3 points of positive mix and price.
CSD case sales increased 2% and non-carbs increased 4% in the quarter.
Brand Dr Pepper was flat in the quarter.
We achieved strong volume growth in our fountain business.
Regular Dr Pepper increased 2% in the quarter while Diet Dr Pepper declined 4% in the quarter which reflects better than overall diet category performance.
Our Core 4 brands were flat in the quarter as an 8% increase in Canada Dry was offset in mid-single digit declines of 7UP and Sunkist soda and a low-single digit decline in A&amp;W.
Crush was flat in the quarter and Schweppes increased 11% on growth of sparkling waters and ginger ale.
Squirt increased 5% and Peñafiel grew 14% on increased promotional activity and distribution gains.
All of the CSD brands declined 1% in the quarter.
In non-carbs Snapple increased 5% primarily on product innovation.
Hawaiian Punch decreased 1% and Mott's was flat in the quarter.
Clamato grew 15% on distribution gains and our water category increased 16% on strong growth in Bai 5 and FIJI.
All other non-carb brands declined 3% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales increased 2% on 3 percentage points of positive mix and price.
CSDs grew 2% while non-carbs increased 4%.
Dr Pepper was flat year-to-date and our Core 4 brands increased 1% as a 9% increase in Canada Dry was partially offset by mid-single digit declines of 7UP and Sunkist soda and a low-single digit decrease in A&amp;W.
Crush declined 2% and Schweppes grew 9% year-to-date.
Squirt increased 8% and Peñafiel increased 15% while all other brands declined 1% year-to-date.
In non-carbs Snapple grew by 7% primarily on growth from innovation Hawaiian Punch increased 2% and Mott's declined 3% year-to-date.
Clamato grew 14% and our water category grew 11% on strong growth in Bai 5 and FIJI.
All other brands declined 2% year-to-date.
We are pleased with our results this quarter.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation net sales increased 5% in the quarter on a 3% increase in shipment volumes and favorable price product and package mix.
These increases were partially offset by customer funding in our fountain foodservice business.
Segment operating profit grew 10% in the quarter on a currency neutral basis.
Core operating income increased 9% on net sales growth lower commodity costs and ongoing productivity improvements that were partially offset by higher operating expenses.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation core operating income grew 12%.
And finally core EPS also increased 12% in the quarter on a currency neutral basis.
There's no question that our consumer-relevant programming has contributed to our strong results to-date and we're keeping that momentum going as we finish out the year.
It's the most exciting time of the year for brand Dr Pepper.
College football season has kicked off once again and we've kicked off year two of our partnership with ESPN and the College Football Playoffs.
We'll generate close to 2.6 billion impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms ensuring that we're always on.
We're rolling out custom football and playoff packaging and merchandising and we've partnered with our largest retail and bottling customers to drive incremental retail activation.
And yes we brought back Larry Culpepper in several new spots this season.
In short Dr Pepper will dominate college football.
We'll also continue the Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway program this year adding to the over $7 million we've given away since 2008.
We've already received several hundred thousand votes so far for contestants and we've partnered with Jimmy Kimmel to create a digital series of webisodes that chronicle the journeys of contestants as they prepare for the live throws.
Halloween is right around the corner and this year our seasonal Core 4 monster cans are returning with a new look.
We're daring kids to make their monsters come to life by using an app on their phone or tablet.
7UP has once again partnered with the Latin Grammys to celebrate Hispanics' passion for music giving consumers a chance to win a trip to the biggest night in Latin music.
And just in time for the holidays Canada Dry Schweppes and 7UP will give shopper mom a reason to celebrate with recipes and tips for easy entertaining and will drive incremental points of interruption at retail with holiday theme merchandising across all these brands.
Finally we'll continue to deliver excitement and variety with our new seasonal Snapple Fall Spice Tea a refreshing black tea with a hint of orange cranberry and spice flavors inspired by the season.
I'm sure you'll agree that we're keeping the momentum going.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2015 guidance.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 3% on a 3% increase in sales volume and 3 percentage points of combined product and package mix and price realization.
Partially offsetting this net sales growth was a higher level of customer funding in our fountain business which reduced net sales growth by 1%.
Net sales growth was also partially offset by 2 percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation as we had previously expected.
Reported gross margins increased about 30 basis points in the quarter increasing from 58.4% last year to 58.7% this year notwithstanding 70 basis points of headwind from year-over-year mark-to-market impacts on commodity hedges.
Lower commodity costs driven primarily by packaging increased gross margins by 100 basis points in the quarter and continued strong productivity benefits including those from RCI increased gross margins by another 60 basis points.
Other manufacturing costs showed improvement of 30 basis points as we adopted a Lean accounting practice last year of expensing all small spare parts resulting in $5 million of additional expense last year.
Product mix driven primarily by continued growth in our allied water brands which we purchase as finished goods reduced gross margins by about 45 basis points.
And finally foreign currency reduced gross margins in the quarter by 40 basis points as Mexico sources certain inputs in U.S.
dollars and finished products sold in Canada are sourced from the U.S.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation increased by $11 million on increases in operating expenses driven by higher volumes and expected inflation.
We also experienced an unfavorable comparison to certain health and wellness and risk insurance true-ups in the prior year.
All other SG&amp;A increased by just over 1%.
And finally foreign currency translation reduced reported SG&amp;A expenses by $13 million.
Depreciation and amortization declined $2 million in the quarter reflecting our recent trends in capital spending efficiencies.
Reported operating income was $337 million in the quarter compared to $316 million last year.
Core operating income of $347 million was up 9% year-over-year and represented 21.3% of net sales up 120 basis points from 20.1% last year.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation core operating income was up 12% for the quarter and 10% year-to-date.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased $1 million in the quarter and our reported effective tax rate was 34.4% compared to 34% last year.
Now moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities was $723 million down $46 million compared to last year caused primarily by timing of working capital.
Capital spending was $71 million compared to $103 million last year.
But we do expect higher levels of capital spending in the fourth quarter principally related to packaging line additions to support growth in Mexico and the U.S.
We believe we will be able to fund all necessary growth investments within our annual CapEx target of 3% of sales owing to the capital efficiencies gained through RCI.
Total distributions to our shareholders were $668 million with $404 million in shares repurchased and $264 million in dividends paid.
Before I move on to guidance let me give a quick update on RCI and our Lean tracks.
Recall that our Lean tracks are specific areas of focus that are led by senior operating managers or Lean leaders.
These tracks are continuing to achieve solid results and let me provide a few examples.
We've continued to improve on driver check-in and check-out times and this productivity improvement has taken 60 delivery trucks off the road to date with no reductions in sales deliveries or customer service.
Our Canada Dry growth track has driven strong results with 53% growth on smaller packages just in the Southeast region alone.
We've continued to close Dr Pepper display tie-in rates by using the tools of RCI with our bottling partners.
As an example we've seen a 19% increase in one of our larger New York markets.
We've reduced off invoice deductions by almost 30% in our Mid-Central region as a result of our accounts receivable Lean track.
And we're seeing double-digit distribution increases on high margin brands through our Telcel Lean track in several markets across the country.
Those are just a few results from some of our lean tracks.
We have so much more activity happening across the entire organization.
As one example our supply chain recently utilized the tools of RCI to improve its sourcing footprint which will reduce over 1 000 truckloads of internal distribution transfers a year.
As we've said before we utilize the tools of RCI across the business on a daily basis and we continue to see wins in many different areas.
And while we're proud of what the organization has accomplished in the last four years we still have a tremendous amount of opportunity ahead of us.
Now moving on to 2015 full-year guidance today we have raised our full year core EPS guidance to a range of $3.92 to $3.98 up about 1.5%.
As a reminder core EPS last year was $3.65.
We now believe our 2015 net sales growth will be approximately 2% net of a foreign currency translation headwind of approximately 2%.
Based on strong year-to-date performance we now expect total company sales volume for the full year to be up about a point with CSDs flat and growth coming from our non-carb portfolio.
I remind you that this CSD expectation is above current Nielsen measured market trends.
We expect combined price and mix to be about 3% concentrate pricing is driving about 40 basis points of this increase and the remainder will primarily come from expected growth in our higher priced non-carb and allied brands.
As we previously communicated foreign currency is expected to be about a 2-point headwind on net sales and inclusive of foreign currency transaction exposure just over a 4% headwind on operating income and just over a 4.5% headwind on EPS.
Our estimates of foreign currency impacts assume the Mexican peso at MXN 17 and the Canadian dollar at C$1.34 both to the U.S.
dollar for the balance of the year.
Moving on to cost of goods.
We continue to expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower PET aluminum and apple juice concentrate.
We now expect this deflation to reduce total cost of goods by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
For modeling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio and allied brands which are higher dollar revenue cases will also increase the dollar value of cost of goods.
Taken together these factors should result in a slight increase in gross margins for the year.
Moving to SG&amp;A though we are still experiencing the higher cost effects of capacity shortages in the transportation industry recent RCI improvements have reduced our expected transportation exposure to about $5 million for the full year down $5 million from our previous guidance.
We continue to expect inflation in our operating expenses and an increase in health and welfare and risk insurance expenses of approximately $30 million collectively.
We also continue to expect marketing spending to be approximately 7.6% of net sales in 2015 which implies an increase in the fourth quarter driven by incremental year-over-year college football activity.
Now moving below segment operating profit our net interest expense will now be around 4.4% on our current debt structure of about $2.6 billion.
Our full-year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5% and we continue to expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales again with a heavier spending level in the fourth quarter.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 million to $550 million of our common stock in 2015 subject to market conditions.
With that said let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with a few brief thoughts.
We continue to remain focused on our key priorities ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
RCI continues to permeate the organization and drive tangible benefits.
It will provide us with a strong foundation for sustainable improvement.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Hey good morning.
Hi Steve.
So it's great to see you hanging in that 3% to 5% top-line range that you used to target but I do want to dig into the drivers there a little bit.
If I look over the last year to 18 months we've definitely seen improvements spread pretty much across the board volumetrically and the pricing environment has definitely been supportive which is great.
But as you called out in part a disproportionate amount of the improved growth has come from better distribution of Peñafiel and distribution on your portfolio of newer allied brands like Bai.
I just want your thoughts on the sustainability of that part of the equation versus your traditional core.
The sustainability there Steve is – I mean a lot of these new allied brands we've got a lot of runway left for distribution availability.
We've got parts of the country that we're still just rolling out into right now so we feel very good on that.
And then as you can see by the Nielsen numbers our core business just continues to improve.
We came in with Dr Pepper flat where we were down below and our diets are outperforming the industry.
So we feel very bullish.
And what about Peñafiel in Mexico? What inning are you there versus having kind of full distribution? Well I think we've pretty well got the distribution levels in Mexico where they need to be.
We're seeing a lot of competition come out after us right now because of the tremendous amount of success there.
We're not real concerned about it because we also know that our Peñafiel is a true mineral water and what we're seeing is some minerals-added and different things.
So it's making our guys be on their game but they're pretty good fighters down there.
Okay.
And then maybe Marty just a few cleanups if I could.
On the CapEx guidance the Q4 investments that you called out on the packaging line additions just how significant will they be? Should we read that 3% of sales guidance as a solid 3% or is it closer to like 2.5%? No Steve.
This year I would say bring it up closer to 3%.
And some of these investments I talked about particularly the line investments for both Mexico and the U.S.
there will be expenditures next year for those as well.
So you should plan around the $170 million level roughly 3%.
That's where we're heading.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just on taxes the 35.5% expectation is for the full year.
Are there specific reasons why you think Q4 will come in higher than where you've been running year-to-date? No nothing specific in there.
Okay.
Thank you.
It's our normalized rate.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I was curious if you could comment a little bit more on some of the incremental funding behind fountain that you referenced during the prepared remarks please? Yeah.
Vivien it's Marty.
So we made funding payments to fountain customers for various reasons.
Sometimes it's simply based on volume.
Sometimes it's based on marketing programs that's a big part of it.
Sometimes it's reimbursement for equipment.
We took an adjustment in the third quarter.
We trued up some funding payments truthfully.
Probably $6 million or $7 million in round numbers probably hit the third quarter that truthfully we probably should have taken up in the first two quarters of the year.
Terrific.
That's great.
I leave it at one question.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
Just wondering on that true-up where that would have been in the income statement? Did it affect price mix in the Beverage Concentrates? Well it's a net revenue adjustment.
So yeah it reduced revenues.
That's why we called it out as a special (23:50)...
And would it explain the price mix being down in the third quarter in concentrates? Sure.
Of course.
As I said just take $6 million or $7 million back to the revenue line.
That's exactly where it sits.
Okay.
And it's not going to continue into the next quarter by the sounds of things? Nope.
No.
Great.
I'm intrigued by Bai.
I'm drinking one as we speak actually and I'm just wondering if you can share with us what the plans are and economically how you benefit.
When you give us volume numbers in Packaged Beverages does it include all of the Bai volume? Exactly how does it flow through your income statement? It flows through the Packaged Beverages.
It goes through Rogers DSD business.
And it's a – I'm glad you're drinking one there because it's a great product.
And the way it works for us I mean we're basically a distribution arm.
They're using our distribution muscle and we take the product out and we make a margin on it and we're very pleased with it.
Is it – definitively it's margin negative in terms of the mix though? If your volume – When you report volume up 2% in Packaged Beverages for the quarter does that include the allied brands volume? Yes Caroline.
It's Marty.
So as we've said so we sell this product.
We do not manufacture the product.
So we buy the product as finished goods and that's why they at the gross margin line tend to carry lower gross margin because they have somebody else's manufacturing profit in there.
But at the operating line they're pretty good contributors to our operating profitability.
That's great.
And if you look at the portfolio of your investments what do you think the biggest opportunities are? And then while you're at that if you don't mind the last thing just commenting on the Peñafiel.
My understanding is you brought some version of that into United States as well.
That's correct.
So Caroline let me talk about the allied brands because they are becoming an important part.
We've said this to a lot of people.
We look to these kinds of companies to actually contribute very much so to our innovation.
We sort of take the view that probably the next level of breakthrough innovation may not come from inside the company but it will come from passionate entrepreneurs who see the opportunities as we all see them in terms of where the consumer is going but can have an environment that can nurture and breed these kinds of brands from really nothing into something over time.
Of course they need a distribution partner and that's where we come in.
Our distribution system is an enormously important asset.
We choose these partners very carefully not just about the brand or what we like about the product but the strategy the management their financial ability to actually perform as the brand owner and to market the brands and actually to have – to sell in the brands at say national account levels to get the authorization so we can go in and stock the stores and put up the displays and do all we do.
It's a very important partnership.
We select them carefully.
And it is making a difference.
It's our way of saying in our effort to try to go to where the consumer is going not resist go where the consumer is going; we look to partner with organizations like this.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey what percentage of your bottle can volume in the U.S.
is in the small cans? And what do you think that could become over the next two or three years? If you're defining small cans like 8 ounce 8.5 ounce it's really small today.
It's going to grow.
I mean we all see it.
We know that's where the consumer is going.
That's why some of this capital I just mentioned is going into that capability.
But we anticipate it's going to be a pretty good growth package.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay gotcha.
You don't want to commit to what the percentage is now? It's small.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay gotcha.
Hey and then I know this is a little bit of a longer term question but is there anything you could do with distribution and bottling assets like how Coke kind of does the refranchising? So have you thought about maybe parting ways with some of them as the whole landscape changes? No really we haven't Bill.
We're very pleased with how our system and our route to markets work.
We've mentioned before we've had some tail markets that we've given over to some beer distributors but we look at it constantly.
But at the time right now we're very pleased with how our distribution is laid out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I guess just one last one.
Was there a big delta in growth between the C-stores and the other channels in the quarter because I think a lot of other people were talking about it and I know the Nielsen data for the C-store stuff doesn't pick up the broader universe maybe like it should.
Not a big difference.
But you're right.
One of our sweet spots is the local C-store business and you're right much of that is not picked up in Nielsen.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I guess a couple of follow-up questions.
So just in terms of when you think about your sales volume guidance now being up a little bit better than what you've been forecasting year-to-date it seems like a lot of that is the positive trend that you're seeing in some of the distribution gains and in allied brands and Peñafiel and so forth.
So if you can just help us understand where do you think the upside was in terms of your sales volume guidance? And then I guess when you take a step back and look at the industry as a whole it seems like you've seen an improvement across a lot of these non-carb categories whether it's bottled water or ready-to-drink tea.
So maybe just in terms of what you think is really driving more of the broad-based category growth improvement in the last six months or so? I think the biggest one you've got to look at Judy is the Dr Pepper.
I mean we've got the Dr Pepper back up to flat.
We've got our Diet Dr Pepper that is outperforming the category.
We're having closing distribution and availability voids out there.
We've got great allied partners.
So it's a combination of several different factors in there that are all hitting perfect for us right now.
Judy it's Marty.
Let me add I think with respect to our thoughts on sales guidance and particularly the CSD component where we said even at sort of break-even volume we're still better than category trends.
And by the way to-date we have done better than that.
We look at the key elements of that portfolio.
Steve mentioned a few of the brands.
When you think about – Dr Pepper is unique and Dr Pepper is really responding really well to our marketing campaign and it's outperforming the category.
Peñafiel is in a really good place as a mineral water.
Mexico being up 8%.
A big driver was Peñafiel.
And I'll tell you that two-thirds of that growth is velocity and not distribution.
So it's moving off the shelf.
That's really a strong sign for the brand and we've not nearly penetrated that opportunity anywhere at all.
We're scratching the surface in the U.S.
on that brand.
And then of course you move to ginger ale hot categories sparkling waters.
We've got the two strongest brands there in Canada Dry and Schweppes.
So we haven't said this in a long time but back to the old flavor versus cola sort of debate or view is let's not forget we've always thought we had an advantaged portfolio.
I think at least for now and for the foreseeable future it's positioned us well.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
On the marketing spend guidance Marty 7.6% of net sales I know it hasn't changed year-to-date.
But in terms of looking at some of the activities that's worked versus maybe some of the activities that may not be getting the returns that you'd expected are there any major changes that you're making or is this sort of similar to kind of what we've been seeing from your perspective? Well okay.
I'll give you a few counts.
First of all yeah 7.6% of total sales.
I'll remind you though that as allied brands become a bigger part of our sales they're not huge today but they are a huge part of the growth we don't market those.
Those brand owners market those.
So if we looked at a percent to our own brand sales it probably would be about 8%.
But I just want to remind people that as we go forward that all the marketing doesn't come out of our marketing spending.
With respect to marketing vehicles I think was the second part of your question and our MROI activities not going into a lot of detail.
If I were to go down a list of the types of things that we focus on and we talked about some of these as we try to get more and more effective.
Length of time of our TV spots what works better prime versus cable channels where does radio and out-of-home and really local marketing fit into our brands and it fits different across our brands.
Social media.
What's a better platform Twitter or Facebook? Paid search.
What terms work the best for us for paid search or not? I mean that's just off the top of my head list of things that I know we review when we go through this all in an effort to take money away from things that are not working.
We really focus on that.
Our marketing budget is staying relatively flat as a percent of sales we think is working for us.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Wanted to dig a little bit more in Packaged Beverages.
So clearly the 6% was strong.
We're all focused on that.
Can you disaggregate that in terms of how much of that 6% was from the suite of allied brands in particular? And you mentioned 15% (34:28) volume there.
Of the rest of it how much was rate versus how much was just mix i.e.
the product was higher priced? Well Ali I'll give you the pricing.
The price realization is probably about a point.
So everything else was mix on that price/mix factor.
Okay.
But the allied brands they're small.
They're a reasonable factor on growth.
They're not the largest factor though.
They're really not the largest factor.
We've not quoted specifically the size of those brands or what they constitute to us in total but they're an important factor but they're not the largest factor.
But you said a second ago that they're a large part of the growth.
So like...
Yeah.
The Peñafiel – but they're nowhere near what a Peñafiel contributes what a Canada Dry contributes what Peñafiel contributes I mean relative to those.
Yeah.
Because it's a small base basically you're saying? Small yes.
Right.
Okay.
So then from a long-term perspective as these things grow I guess what can Bai or another one of these allied brand get from your DSD that it can't get from other distributors like a Coke or Pepsi system? And how much ownership do you have of some of these brands so that it protects you from losses like you've had in the past of allied brands going to other distribution systems? Well I think the biggest one right there is going into the Coke or Pepsi system you don't really ever see any go in if they don't buy.
Right.
And a lot of these young entrepreneurs aren't really ready to sell their business and they want to see them build.
They look at it – it would be better to hear it from them but they think it's a homerun when they get into our system because we've got guys that are pretty scrappy out there on the street.
We're used to working with a lot of smaller brands and how to fight for space and where to merchandise it.
So the only other option is really to go through some beer distributors which become very disjointed and dysfunctional while trying to do a national program.
They can go with us and we can hit a Target a Kroger or Walmart and pretty well have guaranteed distribution across the country.
So I think that's the big difference for us.
So you position yourself more incubation with some ownership.
Ownership.
Distribution muscle is the big piece so distribution doesn't come free.
Okay.
So early stage.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I just want to add – building off of the distribution comments from earlier obviously you have exposure from distribution perspective to both the red blue system and your own system as well.
As we see these divergent paths being taken with Coke going pretty aggressively down the refranchising road I'm just curious if you've seen any deviation in how your business has performed in those different channels recently? No we really haven't.
You've got to remember on the Coke system where they're going back and refranchising those are our bottlers that we've worked with for a long time.
So it's just been a nice smooth transition.
They're great bottlers and we're pleased with the moves they've made.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just one follow-up.
We've talked a lot about some of these non-carb brands that have been doing very well – Peñafiel – but how about on Clamato? It seems like that brand is doing extremely well.
I wonder if you could parse out how it's doing both in North America versus Mexico and what sort of opportunity you see on that brand.
I believe it's a very profitable brand if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah and it's hitting in Canada.
It's a strong brand in Canada strong brand in North America and strong brand in Mexico.
So our businesses are about – I'm going to say probably looking at a third a third a third if you go across Canada U.S.
and Mexico.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Kevin.
So Larry my question is on CSD pricing and the runway for it.
So Coke made an interesting point I thought yesterday on the conference call that they saw less opportunity to take pricing in their (38:54) business in Europe over time relative to the U.S.
given the starting price point there.
So setting aside the price rationality question because it seems like the big players in the industry are certainly committed to it including you guys the question is given the high availability of substitutes how do you think about price gaps and the availability to take pricing over time? When do you potentially start pushing price gaps to levels where you'd be concerned that consumers begin to leave the category at a faster rate? Yeah.
I mean we look at costs.
Like I've said before we take pricing opportunistically and a lot of that is on different regions and everything like that.
But we look at the majority of this on having package innovation different packaging – Marty talked about the cans we're coming out with making sure that we have the choices and options out there for the consumer.
Pricing has been great.
Marty and I've been in the market pretty heavy the last couple of weeks.
We're seeing great – our customers are telling us the consumer is feeling good.
We're seeing some – you've seen the Nielsen numbers.
We've got some improvement.
Our numbers are coming up.
So I think pricing is great.
We'll take pricing where we can but we don't build a lot of our plan on putting pricing in.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then Marty on commodities: I'm not sure if you can comment at all looking out to next year but if commodities stay where they are now taking a look at aluminum and oil and so forth and spot rates hold and your guess is as good as mine what happens there.
It seems like you'd have some favorability looking out to next year.
Can you comment on your commodity outlook at this point? We'll reserve comments until we give specific guidance in February.
But I'll now remind you we do hedge.
So we've locked in some prices already for next year.
But I'll give you more commentary in February.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with Evercore ISI.
Great.
Great.
Two questions.
One – look another terrific quarter.
Congratulations.
What do you guys worry about at this point just kind of looking at the business over the next one to two years? And then just second maybe a little bit of color in terms of what is not actually working at 7UP? Well I can't think of too many things I worry about.
I think the biggest thing we watch is just making sure that – I want to make sure that we constantly understand the consumer.
If I can understand that consumer and can have the packages and the products at the place they want them at the occasion and the time I don't think you could have anything – a better plan or situation than that.
Then the second half of the question I'll let Marty handle.
The brand 7UP was the second part.
Look it's been a challenge.
Don't forget in the Core 4 you have seen this in the past with us we manage that somewhat as a portfolio.
Remember a few years ago we went after Sun Drop and it took the lead and we had to make some trade-offs and Canada Dry is part of that.
I'm not suggesting Canada Dry is cannibalizing 7UP but look it is still a portfolio.
No question 7UP is opportunity.
I mean we see that all as opportunity.
It's not performed where we wanted it to.
It's not performed to the level relative to the investment we put behind it but that's what we've got to figure out.
But I would (42:36) point out that in the carb portfolio that's our biggest challenge right now.
It's our biggest challenge.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Firstly on – when I see these Peñafiel numbers the Squirt number could you just speak broadly about how your portfolio pairs up versus Hispanics and their influence on culture here in North America? You seem to be very well positioned in relatively early innings of exploiting that opportunity.
It reminds me of your comment a moment ago about colas versus flavors but could you elaborate on that? Yeah.
If you look at our – especially for the U.S.
I mean a lot of our Squirt and Peñafiel volume that we report is down in Mexico.
But if you look at what we do up here with Hispanic markets we over-index and we've got the Clamato the Squirt we're bringing the Peñafiel into our Hispanic markets.
And we've found through our deep studies of our strategy on Hispanic is we got to be in the right channels and where to market.
It's not like going into a normal Kroger or supermarket and shopping just in the beverage aisle.
You've got to know where to have those products and a lot of times you may be stacking them over by 25-pound bags of beans and rice and things like it.
Again I go back to what I said a while ago.
If we understand our consumer and what our consumer wants and where they're shopping that's how we can go in and over-index on these brands.
And you're exactly right flavors I mean they love flavors.
Squirt Peñafiel Clamato it just gives us a tremendous opportunity and advantage in Hispanic markets in North America.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And building on that this allied emphasis increasing is that the focus to the extent you see white space or do you think you're still interested in acquisitions that are suited to where you're not addressing a consumer need? Well Mark it's Marty.
So let me close out on the Hispanic question.
Our brands which we think we've got a great portfolio.
And look we haven't done the best job.
We've had a Hispanic strategy.
We're going to do a much better job in terms of that channel and understanding what we need to do with our portfolio.
We've been doing some things but I think we'd all admit there's more runway for opportunity for us.
In terms of the allied brands I think all we are trying to communicate and have communicated recently to various people is Larry said it we focused on understanding the consumer.
We spent a lot of time this year interviewing some 35 000 consumers on their last beverage occasion and what drove them emotionally and functionally so we can try to understand where all of our brands play.
And there's white space on what we call that demand map and that white space can be filled and much of it might more likely will be filled maybe by us partnering with other people than trying to invent a new brand.
Hard to nurture that inside a larger company.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And so far that's worked for us.
We're not unwilling to do that.
But we've got to make our choices very carefully.
We can't do everything.
So choice and priority becomes really important.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
And then if I could it's kind of more – I suppose it's more technical but Snapple is having a very good year mid-single digits high-single digits growth.
Larry Marty is that kind of growth sustainable? In the past we've seen it drop down to low-single digits and have a year like we're having this year.
Is that a sustainable number and if it's not how do you think about alternatives to kind of fill that? Any weakness we might see from here in terms of other non-carbs picking up the slack so to speak if Snapple is not able to sustain this kind of growth? Well we think it's sustainable we truly do.
I mean it's going to be a combination of our innovation plus our strategy with our Straight Up Teas that will play much stronger in the Midwest from kind of out of the Snapple heartland.
Our Straight Up Teas have basically just been launched.
I mean there's a lot of opportunity there.
We'll continue the innovation that we have with like just this fall we're coming out with our fall Snapple with the spice and everything.
And it's being very well received.
So we feel it's very very sustainable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Your final question this morning comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Hi John.
Just want to follow up – you talked a little bit about the diet portfolio performing better and then Marty you talked about all this consumer work you're doing.
Have you been able to figure out what it is about Pepper from a diet standpoint that keeps it so separate from colas? I assume it's just the more loyal consumer base et cetera.
Is there any specific learning you have about that in terms of whether or not people feel differently about aspartame in Diet Dr Pepper versus maybe what's going on with Diet Coke or Diet Pepsi.
We started marketing our Diet Dr Pepper.
We didn't just sit back.
I mean we went out with the little sweet and come out with a great taste.
We just wanted to get the message back out there.
If you want something sweet and something with great taste.
And when we did our return on market investment it's one of the greatest returns that we've seen by going out there and getting that message back out to the people.
In the past we were kind of doing the trademark.
We were kind of letting an umbrella fall over everything.
And so we just turned it around and went direct after the diet and it's paid off for us very well John.
Excellent.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Larry Young for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.