Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems' Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference call over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining us today for DST Systems' Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager.
I plan to review some business highlights for the quarter and Ken will follow with a review of the quarter's financial results.
Overall we are very pleased with our results for the quarter which included a 4.2% increase in operating revenues and a 9.3% improvement in income from operations compared with the same quarter a year ago.
We also delivered positive operating leverage in all of our business segments.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income for the quarter was $46.3 million or $1.04 per diluted share including a onetime impact of $0.04 due to an ALPS fund launch expenses.
This compares to $35.4 million or $0.77 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012.
While we continue to experience certain headwinds across our businesses we believe our results for the quarter demonstrate the fundamental strengths of our core business.
Our progress in the execution of our strategic initiatives is reflected across our results yet we continually -- we're continuing to aggressively manage costs identify opportunities to expand margins and make investments in our businesses to drive growth and enhance value for our shareholders.
In our Financial Services segment ALPS operating revenues increased over the prior year due primarily to market appreciation and new client acquisitions.
As I mentioned earlier ALPS launched a new closed-end fund that raised approximately $125 million in assets.
And as is typical for a new fund launch we incurred certain launch expenses which had a negative impact on diluted EPS for the quarter of $0.04.
We view this as a cost to position ourselves for continued success in this business and that this new fund will generate revenue and contribute to our profits in the future.
We're also pleased to report increased revenues over the prior year period at DST Retirement as well as the successful conversion of 200 000 participants from previously announced new clients.
We're particularly encouraged by these results given that this performance was achieved in a quarter that includes the annual removal of prior year inactive accounts.
We continue to invest in technology and client conversions in our Retirement business as a driver of future growth for the company.
And finally in our core recordkeeping business we recorded an increase in total accounts due to organic growth and subaccounting in new client conversions.
The company continues to expect conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts for 2013 to be between 5 million and 6 million accounts of which approximately 25% are expected to convert to DST's subaccounting platform.
During the first 6 months of 2013 approximately 3.1 million accounts have been converted to subaccounts.
In spite of this headwind we're pleased that we've been able to expand margins in our Financial Services segment on a year-over-year basis.
As part of our efforts to identify ways to best position each of our businesses for growth we've spent significant time evaluating the strategic and financial direction of DST Healthcare.
And based upon our review we announced today the creation of Health Services segment which is comprised of Argus Health Systems and DST Health Solutions businesses.
The new reporting segment more closely aligns with how we currently evaluate and manage the business and how we will make investment allocations going forward.
Our prior period comparisons today reflect adjustments to the new reportable segment and a supplement of this information is included within the earnings release.
Healthcare Services revenues increased $6.2 million an 8.2% increase while expenses increased 5.3% compared with the prior year period.
Operating income increased primarily due to higher revenue from pharmacy claims and increased operating revenues from the addition of new full-serviced medical claim processing clients.
Margins in this segment expanded to 13.9% as compared to margins of 11.9% for the prior year period.
This expansion reflects investments that we have made in our operating model and focus on operating efficiency as well as volume and mix of revenues for the quarter.
We have been notified by 2 health care clients that they will be transitioning away from DST.
Those clients represent approximately 25% of the pharmacy claim volume at the end of second quarter 2013.
The transition from DST Healthcare will take place over the next 36 months during which time our revenues will decline.
However we do not expect significant revenue decline until 2015.
Our Healthcare business is operating in a growing market and we're confident that we will continue to grow this business during this transition period.
The health care sector is a key focus for the company.
We believe that the aging population coupled with increased regulation from the Affordable Care Act present opportunities for providers like DST who are focused on large-scale processing and driving efficiencies.
Our Customer Communications segment also continues to experience growth primarily reflecting the ongoing success of our cost-reduction initiatives and improvement in the performance of the U.K.
business.
While I'm confident that we have the right management team in place we still have a long way to go before this business begins to achieve our performance expectations.
Our work to make this segment fundamentally stronger will continue for the foreseeable future.
And that said I'm encouraged by our progress and the results that we've achieved to date.
Moving to our capital structure and balance sheet initiatives.
During the quarter we monetized approximately $50 million of investment assets.
We also received $125 million dividend from our joint venture Boston Financial Data Services.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately $62.7 million of DST stock.
And in June we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
As of the end of second quarter we have approximately $137 million remaining on our current share repurchase authorization.
And finally we increased our cash on hand by $90 million reduced debt by $60 million for an overall reduction in net debt of $150 million during the first 6 months of 2013.
Reducing debt and maintaining a solid balance sheet are key initiatives that we believe will position the company to invest in the growth of our businesses.
We're committed to a disciplined investment approach coupled with the desire to continue returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I want to turn the call over to Ken Hager our Chief Financial Officer to review the financial results for the quarter.
Ken? Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis we reported consolidated net income of $78.5 million or $1.77 per diluted share for the second quarter 2013 compared to $144.9 million or $3.17 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012.
We have provided a reconciliation of reported GAAP to non-GAAP results in the release.
I would like to point out 2 of the adjustments included in the reconciliation.
In 2012 we recorded $2.56 of diluted earnings per share from a dividend and sale of a private company investment.
This is the primary reason for the decrease in GAAP earnings per share from 2012 to 2013.
In 2013 we recorded a $0.32 per diluted share income tax benefit related to resolution of certain income tax refund claims.
While we are pleased with this outcome since the tax benefit relates to prior periods we have treated it as an adjustment for determining non-GAAP earnings per share for the quarter.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis we reported $1.04 of diluted earnings per share for the quarter as compared to $0.77 for the second quarter 2012.
The remainder of our comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues were $485.1 million an increase of $19.6 million or 4.2% over the prior year quarter.
Consolidated operating income increased $6.3 million or 9.3% to $74.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Financial Services operating revenues increased $8.3 million or 3.5%.
Increases were recorded for most business units particularly DST Brokerage Solutions ALPS and DST Retirement which were partially offset by declines in U.S.
registered mutual fund shareowner account serviced.
Financial Services income from operations increased $1.2 million or 2.3% to $53.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding $2.8 million of incremental cost incurred at ALPS as a result of the new fund launch and $5 million of higher deferred compensation cost which are offset within other income Financial Services operating income would have increased $9 million.
Our newly formed Healthcare Services segment had operating revenues of $82 million an increase of $6.2 million primarily from an 11.3% increase in pharmacy claims paid and increased full-service medical claim processing revenues from new clients.
Healthcare Services income from operations increased $2.4 million during the second quarter 2013 to $11.4 million primarily from increased revenues partially offset by increased personnel cost to support the higher volumes of revenue.
Operating revenues in our Customer Communications segment increased $4.1 million or 2.6% from North America new client volumes.
Customer Communications operating income increased $2.5 million or 43.1% during the quarter to $8.3 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher North American revenues and the positive impact of our ongoing initiatives to lower cost at our U.K.
operations.
Overall equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased slightly over second quarter 2012 primarily from higher revenues at IFDS U.K.
Both IFDS U.K.
and Canada have seen increased revenues from organic growth efforts and new client conversions while BFDS experienced a year-over-year decrease primarily from lower revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced.
Revenue growth in Canada and the U.K.
during the quarter was partially offset by the cost of new client conversions in both businesses and investments in new business development as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 37.6% compared to 41.8% in the second quarter of 2012.
We now estimate that our income tax rate for the full year 2013 will be approximately 36.4%.
Our tax rate will vary on a quarter-to-quarter basis depending on the mix of domestic and international income.
The company repurchased 908 000 shares in the second quarter of 2013 which resulted in 44.5 million average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter a decrease of 1.1 million shares from the second quarter 2012.
We recently announced that we are calling for redemption our remaining outstanding convertible debentures.
We expect bondholders will request conversion to common shares and we will fund the full conversion value in cash.
This will eliminate the potential overhang on diluted shares outstanding.
In the second quarter 2013 approximately 300 000 shares were included in diluted shares outstanding associated with our convertible debentures.
With that Steve and I will be available to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan Davis filling in for George.
I had a couple of questions for you guys on the Healthcare business.
First off could you kind of get a little more granular maybe between -- the margin difference between the DST Healthcare and Argus business? And then to follow up on that is there any way you could kind of give us some quantitative impact whether to the margins or the revenue exactly for the lost business upcoming over the next 36 months? Yes.
Ryan we were -- weren't -- we don't break out the revenue for the 2 separate business lines.
We're going to report revenue and profit margins at the segment level.
And we also do not break out customer revenues or profitability so I don't think we're going to be able to help you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your new business outlook? I know you've been spending a lot of time meeting with prospects and potential customers.
Has anything changed out there in the marketplace? Have spending intentions warmed at all with the relatively stronger markets here over the past 6 to 9 months? I mean do you feel like there are opportunities to grow and win additional business on top of what you've already announced in subaccounting or Brokerage and Retirement and as well potentially in mutual fund shareholder recordkeeping? Yes.
It is -- so you've touched on a lot of -- touched a lot of bases there Pete.
And it certainly -- on a case-by-case basis we're seeing growth.
I think in our Healthcare business we're certainly seeing some positive trends there.
Our customers seem to be doing well and are growing and so that obviously helps us.
We talked about in the retirement space we had some pretty good growth and we're comfortable there.
You've seen -- you see the numbers in our brokerage space and the subaccounting where we've had very good organic growth as well as continuing to win customers.
Our core business the 40 Act transfer agency business continues to go sideways.
We haven't seen organic growth.
And again I think we've talked right along that we expect organic growth in that business to be between negative 1% and 1%.
That continues.
Our Customer Communications business in the U.S.
we've seen some nice growth mainly due to the customers that we've converted over the last 6 months.
And in the U.K.
predominantly what we've seen there is improvement in the way we're running the business.
And so that's kind of come through in the operating income line for that business.
So I'd say we were pleased across-the-board with the quarter and feel like some of it is market impact and some of it's been due to what our management teams have been able to do relative to managing the business and really focusing on making prudent investments while managing the expense line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then as regards to the sales from the publicly traded portfolio seemed a little slow in the quarter and maybe perhaps I would've expected a little bit more given the strength in the broader market and the key investment there.
Is that a reflection of an inability to redeploy after tax proceeds or potentially kind of keeping some powder dry for future tuck-in acquisitions? Or was it just the way that the quarter fell in terms of sales? No.
I actually think we were quite pleased with the quarter.
As you saw we had a significant dividend that got paid from one of our joint venture companies.
And quite honestly Pete the monetization and we talked about this somewhat consistently is really part of the overall capital plan for the company.
So we view the dividend payment as part of the monetization plan and I think we've done a good job of redeploying those assets in terms of dividends share buybacks and investing in the business.
So we were pleased with the quarter and felt like the -- it absolutely met what the capital plan we've set out for ourselves.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then you continue to have a fairly decent amount on the share repurchase authorization.
Would you -- remind me when you announced that program did you have the timetable? We did not Pete.
And we -- again we were pleased with our results for the quarter.
And no we're not going to announce a timetable.
But I think you know and those that follow us know that we typically have met the full share buyback that's been authorized by the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Smith of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I missed the very beginning of the Q&amp;A.
But just on the Healthcare did you say that you think you can grow over this loss? So as you're losing the revenue from the 2 clients we still could see net positive growth in Healthcare? Is that correct? We did not say that Greg.
We haven't made a projection relative to being able to grow over the loss.
The loss is going to occur over a 24- to 36-month period.
We really won't start to see a significant revenue decline from the loss of these customers until 2015.
And the commentary that we made was that the health care sector is a growing sector.
We've got we think a very good footprint in it and we're confident in our ability to grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just help us think about the impact from interest rates.
We've obviously seen a rise in longer-term interest rates.
Can you talk about how that may benefit you? And then transition that to what if we do finally see fed funds rates go up how -- what are the puts and takes across the business? Sure.
Well I'll talk about the revenue side and I'll let Ken talk about the cost side from a -- our debt perspective.
From a revenue side we have 2 businesses that benefit from balanced earnings.
Our Healthcare business benefits and we also -- our joint venture Boston Financial benefits.
And so to the extent we see interest rates rise that certainly helps on the revenue side from both of those business segments.
We've talked about it in the past that today the cost to manage those balances as well as FDIC insurance the revenue was not -- we're not creating enough revenue off of those balances to cover those costs.
And so clearly the interest rate environment from a revenue side of the equation is not attractive.
And your guess is as good as ours in terms of what will happen with rates and on what timeline but there's obviously an offset which I'll let Ken address which is on the funding side of the equation.
Greg of our debt at -- right now a little more than half of it is fixed rate debt and the other half is variable rate debt.
So we probably have $450 million to $475 million of variable rate debt that we would see a negative impact on if rates were to go up because they're tied basically to LIBOR.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then BFDS seems like it's kind of facing some ongoing challenges.
It was great to see that dividend payment but is there any discussion of strategy change or any reason the ownership structure may change? If you can provide some more color on what's going on at BFDS please.
No.
I think -- so there's no discussion around any change in ownership or strategy.
BFDS is really facing what we're facing in our core business which is the headwinds of subaccounting.
We've got an excellent management team there that's doing a very good job.
They're starting to build out some additional capabilities around proxy and some other services that they can provide to their customers.
And so they're making some investment right now and some -- in some businesses to try and firm up their revenue.
But the story there is really one of the headwind of subaccounting.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Tim Wojs of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess it's just a couple -- to start just a couple of questions on margins.
On the Healthcare side it looks like seasonally there's this -- there's a tick down in margins in the third quarter.
I guess first of all is that seasonal? And secondly should that -- should we kind of expect that historical pattern to repeat in terms of weaker Q3 margins and then those ramping in the Q4 in the Healthcare business? Yes I think you can expect that.
So first of all you're right there is some seasonality in the Healthcare margins and I think it's safe to assume that that will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on Customer Communications.
There's a step-down there this quarter in just -- in EBIT margins.
Specifically it looked like actually in North America.
Is there -- I guess what gives you guys confidence that that can kind of get back maybe into double-digit EBIT margin levels into the back half of the year and into '14? Yes.
I don't want to project forward but I would tell you in the quarter there were a number of nonrecurring operating expenses that came through in the North American Customer Communications business.
And so they certainly had some pressure on margins that should not recur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's a nonrecurring stuff there that should fall off.
Yes.
Operating in nature yes.
Research Division</strong> okay that's helpful.
And then I guess this maybe a little early but you guys haven't changed your subaccounting outlook for 2013.
Is there any way you can give us a little bit of a preview of what maybe you guys are thinking for 2014? Yes.
So we're going to do that in the third quarter.
And the reason is I'm not comfortable yet in putting a number out there.
Here's -- and I -- we anticipated this question.
Here's what I'm prepared to say there's been a trend since the high point in 2011 and we expend -- expect that the trend will continue.
But we'll provide in -- on the third quarter call a projection for 2014.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now return the call to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you again for joining us today.
As you've heard we strongly believe in the fundamental strengths of the core business and we're working to bring each of our businesses to a level of performance that we view as industry-leading.
Our results for the quarter demonstrate our progress and we look forward to building on our momentum by continuing to prudently invest in the right products services and strategic initiatives to support growth.
We'll also continue to monetize noncore assets in a disciplined manner that achieves maximum value for each and every asset we sell.
We believe that obtaining maximum value ensures that our shareholders receive as much benefit as possible from their ownership of these assets as part of the DST portfolio.
We'll continue using these proceeds to pay down debt repurchase shares and invest in superior technology within our core businesses to deliver value.
So thanks very much and we look forward to speaking with you on the third quarter call.
Thank you for participating in the DST Systems' Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.