Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and our quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I'd like to turn the conference call over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning.
Thank you for joining DST Systems' third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager.
And as you've seen we adjusted the format of our earnings release beginning this quarter.
We feel the new approach better focuses on the items that we believe are most important in considering and evaluating the company.
Now following my prepared remarks Ken will provide additional detail on our financial results.
Given that this call marks my first year addressing you as CEO of DST I'd like to begin with a review of our progress and accomplishments over the past 4 quarters.
My goal since day 1 has been to ensure that we are in the right businesses and that those businesses deliver consistent performance growth and profitability.
And I have to say I've never been more excited about our company and our prospects.
I also want to acknowledge the hard work of our management team and employees to get us to this point.
Among other things we've taken aggressive action in implementing our strategic plan including streamlining our business segments and improving the efficiency of our operating processes.
As we continue managing costs in all areas of the company we are on a parallel path of investing in new products and entering new markets.
We're encouraged by our progress in our Healthcare Services segment as well as ALPS Retirement and Brokerage operations and our Financial Services segment and are starting to realize the benefits of ongoing investment in the form of higher revenue and improved earnings.
We've seen significant improvement in our Customer Communications segment with new client signings and conversions.
In our Customer Communications U.K.
operations we have seen significant operating income improvement due mainly to lowering operating costs which are the result of facility consolidations and headcount reductions.
Importantly and to use a baseball analogy here our quarterly results were driven by hitting singles and doubles across all of our business lines.
While we remain in the early innings of our plan's execution we believe there is more opportunity to continue unlocking value as well as creating new value for our customers and our shareholders.
Our solid results this quarter demonstrate our momentum in the execution of our objectives and the growth potential of our operating segments.
Revenues are up 3.5% year-over-year for the quarter and we're pleased to report an increase in operating income of more than 20% year-over-year.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.21 as compared to $0.96 for the third quarter of 2012.
We delivered improved operating margins across all of our operating segments.
In addition to the previously discussed investments in Retirement and Brokerage to convert committed revenue we're also continuing to invest in staff and other infrastructure improvements in ALPS and our Healthcare Services segment to support our growing revenue base and positive outlook in those areas.
This could have a modest impact on our Healthcare and Financial Services margins in the near term but over the long term these investments will allow us to expand and benefit from access to new customers and markets.
From a segment perspective in Financial Services segments ALPS' operating revenues increased by double digits over the prior year quarter due to fund growth at existing clients and positive market movement.
Revenues in our Retirement business expanded by double digits as we continue with the conversion of committed revenue.
Our current conversion activities in the retirement space are scheduled out through 2015.
In addition we're encouraged by the level of activity and discussions with our customers related to our solutions in the retirement recordkeeping space.
In our core recordkeeping businesses we saw an increase of 9% in our total aggregate mutual funds and subaccounts through the first 9 months of 2013.
This was driven by organic growth in subaccounts of 3.8 million accounts and 5.7 million new subaccounts due to client conversions.
Year-to-date registered accounts have decreased in total by 4 million.
The primary driver of the decline is conversions to subaccounting.
But on a positive note we had organic growth of 400 000 accounts during that same period.
For the full year 2013 we continue to project subaccounting conversions of between 5 million and 6 million registered accounts to subaccounts which is consistent with our previous guidance.
We currently anticipate between 4 million and 5 million registered accounts to convert to subaccounting during 2014.
As we've discussed in the past these projections are based on our internal modeling.
Further as of today less than 15% of our projected conversions are committed.
I also want to share that we're getting down to smaller blocks of accounts that are available for conversion.
And the impact of this increases the variability of our projections.
We'll obviously continue to update you on this topic during 2014.
In our Healthcare segment we have dramatically improved operating margins increasing from 8% to 14% year-over-year.
This is primarily due to large-scale action taken over the last 3 years to drive higher operating efficiency through improvements in our operating and technology environments.
We're now largely comfortable with our cost structure and position and expect to maintain margins in the mid-teens.
Moving to Customer Communications.
During the quarter we signed 3 new clients 1 of which when fully transitioned by the end of 2014 is anticipated to be among our top 5 largest client -- Customer Communications clients.
The other 2 clients recently signed represent an additional 45 million annual packages.
These 2 clients are also expected to convert in 2014.
In addition the company was notified that a North American client with a 120 million annualized packages has chosen not to renew their contract.
And that contract expires in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our North American business reported double-digit operating margins for the quarter which was consistent with the same quarter in the prior year.
We are excited by the newly-announced client wins.
And while we will incur cost to convert these clients the wins should help us to marginally expand revenues.
Our U.K.
operation broke even for the quarter which is a 700-basis-point improvement from the same quarter in the prior year.
We made significant progress in reducing our operating footprint and headcount and we'll continue on improving our operating margins in these businesses.
In our joint venture businesses we had a significant new client win at IFDS U.K.
As a result of this win IFDS U.K.
will be providing a wealth management platform in the European marketplace which will leverage DST's BlueDoor technology.
This contract is a long-term contract with significant upfront costs for development and conversion.
We have begun the investment in people and technology to execute on this opportunity.
In IFDS L.P.
we're seeing increase in operating income that's a result of the conversion activities that took place in 2012.
Among our nonoperating assets in the third quarter we monetized approximately $110 million in investment assets which included $47.9 million from the sale of 700 000 shares of State Street Corporation and $9.6 million from the sale of 4 properties in our real estate portfolio.
We recognize the value that these dispositions provide to our shareholders and it remains an important part of our strategy.
We will continue to be disciplined with regards to the timing of sales of our nonoperating assets.
We also repurchased $66.6 million of DST common stock and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
As of the end of the third quarter we have approximately $70 million remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
Our capital allocation strategy will continue to revolve around investments in our businesses debt management dividends and share repurchases all with the goal of delivering enhanced value and returning capital to shareholders.
Underpinning our capital strategy is continuing cash flow from operations coupled with prudent [ph] monetization of non-operating assets in both our investment and real estate portfolios.
We believe our current balance sheet affords us significant flexibility in continuing to invest in our businesses while returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over the Ken Hager for detailed discussion of our third quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $96.9 million or $2.23 per diluted share an increase of 12.8% from $85.9 million or $1.87 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.21 as compared to $0.96 in the third quarter of 2012.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $480.2 million an increase of 3.5% or $16.2 million.
Adjusted operating income increased by 21.4% to $81.8 million driven by a combination of increased revenues and effective cost management.
Consolidated margins were 17% in the quarter compared to 14.5% in the third quarter of 2012.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the quarterly results of each of our 3 operating segments.
Financial Services operating revenues increased by $6.6 million or 2.7% driven primarily by fund growth and positive market movements at ALPS increased subaccounts in Brokerage and higher participants in Retirement.
Registered accounts declined as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services software license fee revenues in the third quarter of 2013 were $7.9 million a decrease of $2.6 million as compared to the same period last year.
License revenues for us will vary from quarter-to-quarter.
The increase in Financial Services revenues contributed to a $6.2 million increase in income from operations.
Increased cost associated with a higher revenue base at ALPS and Brokerage were offset by cost containment activities in our other Financial Services businesses.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $9.5 million or 13.3% to $80.7 million driven by gains at both Argus and Health Solutions.
Argus recorded higher revenues from pharmacy claims processing and discount card services while Health Solutions saw increased revenues to new client conversions and organic growth primarily in our BPO business.
Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $5.9 million to $11.4 million during the third quarter with higher revenues from pharmacy claims processed partially offset by increased conversion costs associated with new clients and product development and stamping cost to support the higher revenue base.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $900 000 from revenue growth in the U.K.
while North America revenues were relatively flat.
Overall operating income was $13 million an increase of $2.4 million or 22.6% from $10.6 million in the same quarter last year.
Facility consolidations and headcount reductions in the U.K.
contributed to $2.6 million in cost savings during the quarter which was partially offset by $1.4 million increased cost in North America associated with increased compensation and benefit costs.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates declined $600 000 to $2.1 million in the third quarter.
BFDS equity earnings were $1.8 million down $300 000 from lower account fee revenues and lower interest income.
IFDS U.K.
reported higher revenues from new clients.
However equity and losses increased by $400 000 from continued conversion and business development costs.
Finally new revenues associated with a client conversion in the fourth quarter of 2012 allowed IFDS L.P.
to realize $900 000 in equity earnings this quarter an increase of $500 000 from the third quarter of 2012.
Our income tax rate for the third quarter was 36.4% which is in line with our estimate for the full year and compares to 38.3% for the same quarter last year.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 43.5 million a decline of 2.5 million or 5.4% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases and the redemption for cash of the remaining convertible debentures.
During the quarter the company spent $66.6 million to repurchase 930 000 shares of common stock.
We are now including a full balance sheet in our release.
Cash declined in the quarter by $48 million to $129.9 million primarily from the use of cash to fund share repurchases and debt reductions.
The redemption of our outstanding convertible debentures resulted in a total cash outlay of $83.6 million.
We also paid off a secured real estate loan of $100 million.
In summary total debt declined in the quarter by $118.2 million to $833.4 million at September 30 2013.
I'm now going to turn the call back to Steve for his concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Ken.
So we made great strides as a business through the first 3 quarters of 2013 and we're entering the fourth quarter from a position of strength.
Across our industry we're seeing initial signs of renewed growth and optimism.
We're going to continue to focus on executing the fundamental points of our growth strategy namely: Retaining customers through exceptional service increasing the penetration of our products through adjacencies in new markets developing integrated solutions to grow our segments and expand our pipeline of opportunities for new and existing customers continuing to prudently monetize nonoperating assets and allocating capital to deliver shareholder value through reinvestment dividends and share repurchases.
I'm energized by our prospects and I look forward to updating you as we move forward.
At this point I like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Greg Smith of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the guidance on subaccount conversion expectations in '14.
So of that 4 million to 5 million how many is -- is it possible to break it out between retirement and non-retirement I guess? Yes we're not going to break that down Greg.
What I would tell you is and I know this is the discussion around the tax-advantaged accounts.
What we -- in that 4 million to 5 million number is obviously all the accounts that we are modeling right now.
And so -- and the update there is that not a lot has changed since the last call.
We're kind of still on the same track that we've been on and there's really no new information from our customers on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then of those accounts though is it mostly existing broker/dealers moving over subaccounting other blocks of mutual funds? Or is it new broker/dealers? Any other color you can kind of provide there? Yes it's mostly existing broker/dealers.
And as I've said Greg it's kind of interesting right? The broker/dealers went after the big blocks first then went ahead and moved those.
And that's the action that we've seen really since 2009.
We're now getting down to the smaller blocks which as I said makes our modeling a little bit more difficult.
And again we'll just keep you updated on a quarterly basis as to how we see it playing out.
But today that's the best we can give you relative to an estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- help me out with -- you had positive organic growth within your subaccount base negative within your registered accounts.
Is that simply just a function of how consumers are purchasing mutual fund these days? Or is there something else going on there? No that's exactly it.
Just a fundamental change in the distribution model of mutual funds.
You hit the nail in the head.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one for me.
You guys had a really really strong margin performance across-the-board in each of the segments.
Certainly relative to our expectation.
And it seems like there's sort of conflicting things going on here.
You're doing a great job managing costs where you need to but at the same time you're investing for growth in other areas.
So how should we kind of think about the margins? Just give us some help over the next couple of quarters given those kind of conflicting trends.
Yes well -- I think -- so let's take it by segment.
I think our Financial Services segment next year I think we're going to see -- continue to see some downside pressure because of the subaccounting that we talked about and some of the investments that we're making.
The good news is we've got a few businesses within that segment that have shown some nice growth.
Our ALPS business has grown quite strongly and we expect them to continue as has the Retirement and the subaccounting business.
In the Healthcare business as I mentioned we kind of feel like the margins that they produce this quarter should be sustainable and we expect to be able to run that business near the margins that we received -- that we produced this quarter next year.
In the Customer Communications segment I think we're going to see some downside pressure in the first half of next year as we spend to convert the big customers that we announced.
But we should see some improvement in the back half of the year.
So that's kind of how we're thinking about it Greg.
And I hope that's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan Davis filling in for George.
I've got a couple of questions and I'll follow up on Greg's last question on margins.
I guess looking at the Healthcare margins they're pretty strong this quarter.
And then to next year you're kind of expecting the same.
Is there any expectation with the lost business coming there from the pharmacy side with the market review? Sure.
So let me -- as we talked about last quarter we're going to see the full impact of that revenue loss in 2015.
It will take 24 to 30 months for that business to convert out.
And so we expect we'll see some of that pressure next year but really the full impact of it will happen in 2015.
And so again that business is a little bit cyclical quarter-to-quarter but we're pretty confident that we can maintain.
And you're right we have had a tremendous margin pickup.
And again we're pretty confident there'll be a little bit of movement quarter-to-quarter.
But as we think about it year-over-year we expect that we'll be able to maintain the kinds of margins that we produced this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So looking forward like 2014 Financial Services and Customer Communications may be a little pressured but 2015 could be a more normalized scenario consolidated I guess so to speak? Ryan I wouldn't want to make a prediction at this point on 2015.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And I guess is there any expectations on the number converting to the DST subaccounting platform the 4 million to 5 million in 2014? Or...
Yes.
Let me tell you my concern with putting that number out there at this point Ryan.
As I said only 15% of the 4 million to 5 million that we're expecting are committed.
And by committed we mean we've had a discussion with our customer the mutual fund or with the broker/dealer who said we want to move this block of accounts and we're thinking about this kind of a timeframe.
And so all of the noncommitted right now which is 85% of that 4 million to 5 million we don't know whether they're going to end up on our platform or another platform.
So I think we're a couple of quarters before we're going to be able to give you a read relative to what percentage of those accounts will end up on the DST platform.
It's a great question just at this point there's too many unknowns for me to put a number out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve could you review the backlog now where we stand in Retirement participants? I know there was a pretty strong backlog to be converted but then there was also -- a customer had reduced their scope.
Can you kind of talk about that net? Have we seen most of the conversions are we done there? Or would you expect some additional conversions here over the next several quarters? Yes we've got conversions Pete that are scheduled out through -- I think it's around mid-2015.
So about the next 6 quarters.
I don't have the number on top of my head but it -- so it's existing customers.
We had 1 customer that was coming off of 5 platforms and we're kind of -- we're working with that customer platform by platform.
That's the majority of the committed pipeline yet to convert.
And again I don't have that number right in front of us.
But you can expect that that -- that those conversions will continue.
So a couple of things there right? One is we still have the expense to convert those participants.
But we're also starting to see the revenue come through.
The other thing that will hopefully happen here is we'll bring on new customers.
And so I expect Pete that our pipeline of committed businesses hopefully will be able to run that out quite a bit.
And these conversions they take quite a long time.
It's not the kind of thing where you book revenue 1 quarter and 2 quarters or you book a customer and 2 quarters later you're seeing revenue.
These conversions typically take between 12 and 18 months to complete.
So I know that's not the exact number but that's kind of how it's playing out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the answer -- what I'm trying to figure out participants were up 32% year-over-year but we would expect that the current backlog -- current known backlog would get us to a number higher than that over the next 6 quarters.
We still have -- that should still be one of the fastest-growing pieces of DST's business over the next 6 quarters right? So Pete that's a fair observation.
But here's the one thing that I warn you.
In the second quarter of every year we have a purge okay? And the purge is basically is -- it's inactive participant accounts.
So what happens is 401(k) plan somebody leaves the company and they roll their 401(k) balance over to an IRA.
We have to keep that participant account on our platform through year-end and through the tax reporting season.
Then in the second quarter we go in and we purge those accounts off of our platform.
And so we will see in the second quarter of next year we will see a number of participants go off of our platform.
Again that's the annual purge.
And so that's the lumpiness that you're going to see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's fair.
And then within the IFDS U.K.
business you had a comment within the press release that indicated you expect to have a fairly high level of investment spending.
And I wasn't sure if I should infer that the IFDS U.K.
JV would be making losses for an indefinite period of time.
No that's not the correct assumption there.
So we do have a significant amount of investment that's going to happen.
As we said in the release we won a new significant customer long-term contract that gets us into the providing a wealth management platform to that marketplace which is actually quite exciting for us okay? A lot of that investment has been taking place.
We've been building out the systems and hiring people to go ahead and execute on that opportunity.
So that is [indiscernible] run rate is in the JV [ph] and what we haven't seen is any of the revenue.
And so we expect that next year the IFDS U.K.
joint venture you should see improved margins there.
Is that helpful? LLC Research Division</strong> That is helpful.
Then just my last question.
I know there's a lot of flux going on with Affordable Care and -- how do you expect that impacts your number of covered lives within Health Solutions over the next let's say year? Is there a way to kind of think about that? That's a hard one right? Because we're kind of one removed from the participants.
Here's what I would tell you.
We've got a great customer list in our Healthcare business and our customers are doing a very good job attracting new lives okay? And so that's why you see us growing.
We're just downstream from our customers.
So the good news is we've got great customers that are doing a good job.
The general trend be it Affordable Healthcare Act or the aging population the general trend is good and that's part of the reason we like the segment so much.
But I'd be hard-pressed to put numbers on it because it's really up to how well our customers do in attracting new business to their solution.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Wojs of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on subaccounting again.
Just -- do you have any idea in terms of the per-account economics that you guys are assuming in your model? And maybe how that's compared to the accounts that has converted to subaccounting over the past couple of years? Yes we really don't get down to the level of per-account pricing.
Here's what I'd tell you.
The subaccounts come on to our platform at a reduced unit of revenue versus the direct mutual fund accounts.
And so the economics are not as attractive.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is just more on the base registered accounts.
Are the economics on those accounts different than what's already been converting from registered to subaccounting over the last few years? No no.
The economics really haven't changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And I guess just on Financial Services you've done 3% to 4% -- about 3% growth the last couple of quarters which is a nice improvement.
I guess how do you guys think of growth there going forward? Should we think of low to mid-single digits as a sustainable rate? Or I guess how are you guys thinking about it? Yes I think that's a good target.
I think if we can continue to grow around 3% I think that will be good performance out of our management team and with our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on cash flow could we -- is there any opportunity to get just what cash flow from operations and -- what's for the quarter? Tim we don't have that information fully finalized yet.
So it'll come out in the Q.
Thank you.
That concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you in the first quarter of 2014.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.