Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems' fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens who will provide some detail on our fourth quarter financial results following my prepared remarks.
As this is Gregg's first earning call I'd like to take a minute to introduce him.
Gregg has been with DST since 1996 and has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for the past 14 years.
He's intimately familiar with our operating plan and the execution of our ongoing financial strategy.
Gregg's also played a key role in recent noncore asset monetizations real estate sales and the breakout of our Healthcare segment.
I'm looking forward to working closely with Gregg.
On behalf of DST I also want to wish Ken Hager all the best in his retirement which was effective with Gregg's appointment.
Ken served DST for 29 years and is responsible for a significant number of accomplishments for this company over his tenure.
Moving to our results.
And before I talk about the quarter I want to spend a minute on our full year 2013 results.
We're pleased to bring 2013 to a close with solid operating performance.
For full year 2013 we reported an increase in operating revenues of 3.3%.
Operating income improved $38.8 million or 14% as compared to full year 2012.
Our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $4.57 for full year 2013 as compared to $3.98 for full year 2012 an improvement of $0.59 per share or 14.8%.
These results reflect our focus on core operations coupled with continued successful execution of our strategic plan.
Importantly in my mind we saw operating improvements in all 3 operating segments of our business and are well positioned to maintain those gains going into 2014.
I will now turn my attention to the fourth quarter results.
Revenues were up 2.7% year-over-year for the quarter and operating income increased by $11.6 million or 15.1% over fourth quarter 2012.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.34 as compared to $1.19 in the fourth quarter of 2012 an increase of 12.6%.
From a segment perspective in Financial Services ALPS' operating revenues solidly increased over the prior year quarterly -- quarter primarily due to fund growth at existing clients and positive market movement.
In our Brokerage business a combination of both new client conversions and organic growth contributed to increased revenues.
We continue to see increases in operating income in this business due to leverage gained from scale.
In our core recordkeeping business we saw a double-digit increase in our total aggregate mutual fund and subaccounts for the full year 2013.
This 10% increase was driven by 6.1 million in new client conversions and organic growth of 4.9 million though the gain was partially offset by 3.7 million of conversions off the DST platform.
Registered accounts decreased in total by 4.5 million over the year with the primary driver being conversions to subaccounting.
For full year 2013 subaccounting conversions were in line with our projections of between 5 million and 6 million with 5.1 million registered accounts converting to subaccounts.
We continue to anticipate between 4 million and 5 million registered accounts may convert to subaccounting during 2014.
We're pleased to report that our Health Services segment and -- had substantial operating margin growth increasing from 17% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 22% this most recent quarter.
This is consistent with our estimates of achieving mid-teens margins on a full year basis.
The expansion during the fourth quarter is partially driven by expected seasonality in license sales service quality fees earned and further driven by the improvements in our core operations some of which is from investments which we've made over the last 3 years.
Notwithstanding the solid quarter we expect margins in this segment to average in the mid-teens for full year 2014.
As we look at Customer Communications segment for the quarter we have continued to focus on fully transitioning the 3 new clients we signed in the previous quarter and servicing our existing clients.
Revenue and operating income decreased slightly during the quarter primarily due to lower volumes.
Our North American business reported operating margins for the quarter which were consistent with the same quarter in the prior year.
Our U.K.
business reported an operating loss of $1.2 million during the fourth quarter a decrease of $2.2 million as compared to the prior year.
As previously discussed our Customer Communications business have a high concentration of fixed costs.
The decrease in operating revenues predominantly in our direct marketing business in the U.K.
negatively impacted our profitability for the quarter.
We have been and will continue to focus on improving our margins in this business through managing and rightsizing our operating footprint.
We continue to have some choppy quarters in our performance but I'm confident that our measures in this regard are stabilizing the business and will further improve results over time.
In our joint venture businesses we are experiencing good year-over-year growth in revenues and accounts processed which are being offset by the conversion costs for new clients.
IFDS U.K.
have extended their current contract with one of their largest customers where they provide administration processing and technology.
This new contract also expands these services to include DST's BlueDoor technology as part of a wealth management platform for the U.K.
market.
The integration is currently in process and will continue through 2014 and beyond.
We have been investing in people and technology to execute on this opportunity overseas and these costs have been reflected in our operating results in the IFDS joint ventures.
IFDS Canada has also seen new client growth with their most recent win expected to convert approximately 650 000 new accounts by the end of first quarter 2014.
The underlying fundamentals of these businesses remain strong and we maintain a positive outlook for operating income growth at IFDS moving forward.
With respect to our nonoperating assets monetizations remained active for the fourth quarter.
DST monetized approximately $110 million in investment assets which included $60.6 million from the sale of 857 000 shares of State Street Corporation $34.7 million from private equity funds and other securities and $500 000 from the sale of real estate portfolio assets.
Prudent monetization and asset dispositions are central to our ongoing strategy and we will continue to capitalize in 2014 on opportunities as we -- that we see with respect to our nonoperating assets.
We were also active on the share repurchase front in the fourth quarter buying back 847 500 shares of DST common stock for $70.8 million.
After the repurchase of these shares we have reached our limit on the current program and have received board authorization for a new $250 million share repurchase plan to continue opportunistically buying back shares in the future.
We believe these repurchases are a prudent and effective way to return capital to our shareholders.
As we did in the first 3 quarters of 2013 we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share during the fourth quarter and the board has recently declared a $0.30 per share dividend for the first quarter of 2014.
We will continue to make strategic investments in our businesses manage our debt carefully and remain committed to returning capital to shareholders in the most efficient way.
We believe our current balance sheet affords us significant flexibility in meeting these goals.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our fourth quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve and thanks for the introduction earlier in your remarks.
This is an exciting time to be at DST and I've already hit the ground running in my new role as CFO.
I look forward to helping contribute to the company's future successes and focusing on enhancing shareholder return in this new capacity.
With that said let's turn to the numbers.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $84 million or $1.97 per diluted share.
This is an increase from the $37.9 million of net income or $0.82 per diluted share reported in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The most significant difference between the 2 quarters can be attributed to a goodwill impairment charge taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 associated with our Customer Communications U.K.
operations.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.34 as compared to $1.19 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our non-GAAP earnings per share increased $0.15 or 12.6% over the prior year quarter.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose to $500.1 million an increase of $13.1 million or 2.7% over the prior year quarter.
Adjusted operating income increased by 15.1% to $88.6 million.
This improvement was driven by a combination of increased revenues and effective cost management.
Consolidated operating margins were 18% in the quarter compared to 16% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the segment level Financial Services operating revenues increased by $7 million or 2.8%.
This was driven primarily by higher revenues at ALPS Brokerage and BlueDoor which were partially offset by lower revenues at Global Solutions and our U.S.
recordkeeping business from a decline in registered accounts as a result of subaccounting conversions.
The overall revenue growth in our Financial Services segment along with effective cost-containment initiatives resulted in a $7.3 million or 14.5% increase in the segment's income from operations of $57.7 million.
In our Healthcare Services segment we reported an increase in operating revenues of $11.9 million or 15.1%.
Our Healthcare Services segment closed the quarter with $90.6 million of revenue which reflects improvements at both Argus and Health Solutions.
Argus recorded higher revenues from an increase in pharmacy claims processed increased network fees and increased discount card services while Health Solutions saw increased revenues from new BPO clients as well as from new exchange licenses.
As Steve mentioned we have historically experienced seasonality associated with license revenues so we largely expected the fourth quarter revenue increases in the Healthcare Services segment.
The Healthcare Services segment also experienced an increase in cost and expenses of $5.4 million from higher product development costs and higher staffing costs to support the increase in new client volumes.
For the quarter Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $6.2 million or 45.6% to $19.8 million.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased by $4.3 million largely due to lower volumes in both the U.K.
and North America.
The decline in revenue was partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense resulting in an overall operating income of $9.6 million which is a decrease of $2.9 million or 23.2% from the same quarter last year.
Overall equity in earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $4.1 million in the fourth quarter.
This represents a decline of $4.5 million from the prior year quarter.
BFDS equity in earnings were $2.1 million which is a decline of $500 000 from the prior year quarter due to lower account fee revenues.
Our IFDS equity in earnings was $800 000 a decrease of $4 million from the prior year quarter.
IFDS had higher processing revenues primarily as a result of an increase in shareholder accounts.
On a full year basis our international shareholder accounts increased 5.3% to 21.8 million accounts.
However the IFDS results reflect continued development costs associated with the creation of a new wealth management service offering in the U.K.
and additional costs related to new customer contracts.
Collectively this resulted in an overall decline in equity in earnings for the quarter.
Our income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 38.2% as compared to 33.4% for the same quarter last year.
The main driver of the higher effective tax rate is a change in the mix of domestic and international taxable earnings along with lower foreign tax credits and additional international valuation allowances.
On a full year basis our 2013 effective tax rate was 36.6% which is 0.4% higher than the full year 2012 tax rate.
Looking forward we believe the full year 2014 effective tax rate will increase to approximately 37%.
However we will most likely see quarterly variations of plus or minus 2% throughout the year depending on the timing of domestic and international income sources.
During the fourth quarter we had $38.1 million of capital expenditures which was a $10.5 million increase over the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a full year basis our capital expenditures of $106.7 million was in line with our capital plan and was essentially flat with our 2012 capital expenditures.
Looking forward to 2014 we believe our capital expenditures will continue to be in line with 2013 with the exception of 2 specific items.
The first is a refresh of our generator plant at our data center and the second is the acquisition of specific equipment for a new client that we've announced in the Customer Communications segment.
Collectively these 2 items will increase our capital expenditures by an additional $35 million in 2014.
We view these as isolated items and do not believe they should be viewed as a new norm in terms of our annual capital expenditures.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 42.6 million shares a reduction of 7.6% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases.
During the fourth quarter the company completed its authorized share repurchase plan by repurchasing 847 500 shares of common stock for $70.8 million.
We ended the year with $62.5 million of cash and $683 million of debt.
We reduced debt by $150.4 million in the fourth quarter and $328.6 million during the full year.
A portion of this decline resulted from the decision during the fourth quarter to repatriate $62 million of cash held at our international subsidiaries.
This cash was then utilized to pay down our outstanding debt.
I would like to conclude by saying that as DST's new CFO I'm not only excited about the company's fourth quarter operating results but I'm also excited by the strength of the company.
With our strong operating cash flow available borrowing capacity and nonoperating assets available for monetization we are well positioned to enhance shareholder value through a combination of share repurchases dividends and investments in growth opportunities.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
DST continued its positive momentum to close out 2013 on a high note.
We're looking ahead to an exciting 2014 and we'll work hard to continue the great progress we've made across all of our segments.
We continue to execute on the fundamental points of our growth strategy which include retaining clients through exceptional service increasing penetration in our products through adjacencies and new markets developing integrated solutions to grow our segments and expand our pipeline of opportunities for new and existing clients continuing to prudently monetize nonoperating assets and allocating capital to deliver shareholder value through reinvestment dividends and share repurchases.
The coming year certainly looks bright for DST and I look forward to updating you on our continued progress.
At this point I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is Rayna Kumar for David Togut.
Could you please quantify your margin potential in your Financial Services segment for 2014? We don't actually project margins on a forward basis.
We're very pleased with the results in 2013 margins in that business.
And those margins in the Financial Services segment have been relatively stable for the last few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well could you talk a little bit about your cost-containment plans for '14 then? Well sure.
I mean across all of our businesses -- and again I want to emphasize here that we view ourselves as an operating company.
And part of that -- a large part of that is making sure that we're prudently managing our assets both human and financial.
And you've seen margin expansion this year particularly if you look at our Healthcare business.
We've made a lot of progress in '13.
I don't expect we'll make the same level of improvement in 2014 because the bar has been raised.
But we'll continue to prudently manage all of our assets and that includes an intense focus on cost containment across the company.
Research Division</strong> Given the 15% increase in your Healthcare revenue in the fourth quarter do you think that mid-teen growth is sustainable through '14? No.
Again we talked about the drivers in the fourth quarter and the fact that that's typically a very strong quarter for us.
We think there'll be some growth in our Healthcare business but we don't think it will be on a revenue basis in the mid-teens for '14.
Research Division</strong> What's your anticipated pace of selling noncore assets? Well again we don't project forward plans there.
We are opportunistic as it relates to our balance sheet.
That includes all of our nonoperating assets and the ways in which we return capital to shareholders.
So again I think we've been pretty consistent for the last 8 quarters now.
Again we'll continue to opportunistically work on that portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can just sneak one last question in there.
What's -- could you just talk a little bit about your outlook on IFDS? Given the new client conversions there seems to be a mismatch between revenue and expenses.
So could you just talk a little bit about how we should view IFDS in '14? Yes sure.
That's a very good question.
And you're right there is a mismatch.
We actually talked to it in the release.
We've got a few things going on at IFDS.
We talked about in Canada we had a large client conversion a year ago.
We won another big customer and that conversion is scheduled to happen here in the first quarter.
So we had the expense to get that conversion readied and bring the people on and get the systems in position but we hadn't seen any revenue.
That revenue will start to come online in the first quarter.
In our U.K.
operation similar story.
We've had significant new customer wins and we've been converting those wins throughout 2013 and into 2014.
And then the third thing is both Gregg and I mentioned the new win that we had last -- that was announced last quarter.
And we just announced another new win with one of our largest customers in the U.K.
where we're going to expand the relationship to include building out a wealth management platform for the U.K.
marketplace.
We've seen a significant amount of expense around that and have not seen the revenue.
And so the expense -- we booked the expense as incurred but the structure of these contracts caused us to have to defer revenue until certain project milestones are met.
We expect that we're going to begin to meet those project milestones here on the first quarter of 2014.
And so we should see significant revenue improvement and I would say significant operating margins out of IFDS during 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Given your market share position in both the mutual fund shareholder recordkeeping business as well as subaccounting can you talk about some of the trends you're seeing in terms of organic account growth? Certainly it appears that we did see organic account growth in mutual funds and subaccounting as well as in 401(k).
But can you talk a little bit historically or maybe some of the intraquarter or early 2014 trends that you're seeing? And do you think the foundation is set for organic account growth overall for the mutual industry this year? So Pete in the -- if we talk specifically about '40 Act mutual funds I'm still not confident that we're going to see much organic growth.
I think we'll see negative 1% to 1% which is what we've historically talked about.
And the reason is the way these products are being purchased has shifted fundamentally right? Today they're being bought predominantly through brokerage accounts.
And so we do think we'll see organic growth in our subaccounting business okay.
And we think that organic growth should be in line with what we saw this year.
We -- again the other thing on the mutual fund side is we believe this year there'll be 4 million to 5 million direct accounts that get subaccounted and we saw the 5.1 million decline last year.
So I think Pete if I step back at the big trends the way mutual funds in the U.S.
are being purchased has shifted on a very fundamental basis.
We do not see significant organic growth on our direct book of mutual fund accounts.
We do think we'll see organic growth in the retirement space -- sorry in the subaccounting space.
If I talk about the retirement space we do expect to see some organic growth there.
But again we talked about it last quarter.
I'd caution that during the second quarter we have a purge of effectively nonactive accounts that takes place.
So we have some conversions that are going to take place in the retirement space from deals that have been previously won and some amount of organic growth which will be offset by the second quarter purge.
I know it's a long-winded answer to a short question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
But fair enough.
And then similarly on the Healthcare side can you talk about the last 4 or 5 months in terms of covered -- additions to covered lives potentially from universal health care or the expansion of the health care mandate? Yes.
And we talk about this on every call.
And the challenge is for us to tell you exactly how much growth is driven by the Affordable Health Care Act how much growth is driven by the aging population so very hard for us to make a 1-to-1 connection.
Here's what I would tell you.
We like the segment for a number of reasons.
We like the footprint and the solution that we have.
And we believe there's going to be growth there be it due to the aging population or the Affordable Health Care Act.
We had good organic growth in 2013 and I expect again we'll have good organic growth in 2014.
Remember our -- we're kind of one removed from the ultimate customer here.
We're lucky in that we have a great lineup of customers but they need to go out and get people on to their systems and sign people up.
And that process is taking place throughout the year but is particularly active during the fourth quarter and first quarter of any given year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Got you okay.
And then last question.
Last quarter you announced a very large customer on the Customer Communications side.
Can you remind us of the conversion timeframe? Is that something that should be starting to benefit DST in the first quarter of '15? Yes sure.
I'm going to ask Gregg to go ahead and take that question.
And Gregg this is around the large Customer Communications client.
So Pete last quarter we announced actually the addition of 3 new customers in the Customer Communications segment.
One of those is very significant.
We project all 3 of those customers coming on the latter half of 2014.
And when fully in production we think that they'll probably drive directionally 400 million extra packages per year for the organization.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And so on the current package base that's high single-digit type growth is that right? It is.
But at the same time keep in mind that we're experiencing some volume declines by existing customers as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's right.
And those -- so those 3 new customers those were all in the domestic business is that correct? That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So encouraged to see again that only 4 million or 5 million accounts will be converting from registered to subaccounting in '14.
I think on the last call you had indicated that the commitment rate was about 15%.
Just wondering if you have any sort of update as to the pace of those conversions and the portion that you expect to retain.
Yes George.
We are still below 20% of what we put in what we call a committed bucket.
And that means either the broker-dealer or our customer has come to us told us which block of accounts is going to move and given us a date that they'd like to do that.
So again we're still kind of in the early innings here for 2014.
The amount that we'll retain again I think it's too early for us to predict.
In the past couple of years given the growth in our subaccounting business we retained roughly 20% of the accounts that have moved over.
And if I had to plug a number in right now as an estimate I'd say that's probably in the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I know you don't want to get into specifics on the margin front but just kind of looking at the performance in the Financial segment you've been at sort of 23% 24% adjusted margins now for a while.
Is there any reason why that would decelerate in '14 vis-a-vis additional investment or anything like that? I don't think we'll see a big deceleration.
There are still some headwinds in the core business.
But again I think we're -- the team is doing a good job of managing those.
Again we don't want to project forward.
But I think the Financial Services segment has been relatively stable and my expectation is that we'll be able to maintain that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just last question for me on the output side.
Your outlook or thoughts about returning to positive margins or positive EBIT in the U.K.
business should we be expecting that next year? Yes.
I want to -- thanks for bringing up the output business.
We didn't -- I'm not pleased with the fourth quarter that we had.
But I don't want it to overshadow the fact that in both of those businesses both the North American business and in the U.K.
business we had very solid improvement year-over-year.
And so we do expect in the U.K.
business to see further improvement there.
Again their business tends to be -- I think we said choppy.
Their business and revenue particularly tends to be a little bit choppy.
But we do expect George that we're going to see continuing improvement there.
And again I want to make sure that the results of the fourth quarter don't overshadow what was really a very successful year in both our North American and the U.K.
Customer Communications businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Baird.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just -- I guess one more question just on the margin profile less on the pace of improvement or anything more just on the mix of the business lines.
The registered account business obviously as registered accounts go to subaccounting you lose those accounts.
That has a negative impact on margins the way we understand it.
I'm just wondering ALPS and subaccounting growth are those 2 pretty nicely accretive to margins and that's why as those 2 kind of offset you end up with reasonably stable margins over time? I guess the question is more what helps and hurts the mix of margins across the different units within Financial Services.
Yes -- and David it is kind of a mix of businesses and it's part of the reason we've been able to maintain relatively stable margins at the top line of the segment.
We've talked in the past about ALPS.
ALPS has really attractive growth rates and margins that are in the high teens right? And so as we grow there and maintain those margins that certainly helps.
The subaccounting margins are attractive.
But the difference that we've talked about in the past is the actual revenue unit for a direct account versus a subaccount.
The subaccounting revenue unit is quite a bit lower.
Margins are not that different however between the 2.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that makes sense.
And then -- I guess the balance sheet has pretty massively improved over the course of the year given both the cash flow and that monetization being the 2 big drivers of where you're taking cash in from.
I think you ended last year over 2x trailing EBITDA if you just look at net debt and now you're at 1.4x.
And I'm just wondering what your -- I guess where could that go if you saw an attractive acquisition or just -- could you just cover up and buy stock tomorrow just kind of clean up the $250 million quickly? I guess what's your debt comfort? Well I'd tell you that we're very comfortable with the debt level that we're at.
We have again a stated part of the strategy continuing the buyback paying dividends and reducing our debt.
We're comfortable with the debt level David.
We'd be comfortable if it goes lower.
And clearly we'd be comfortable if it were to move up.
And we could see it moving up if there were an opportunity that we saw from a growth perspective to invest.
So we're not going to project where the debt should be other than to tell you that we're comfortable and the board's comfortable with the level of debt that we're carrying now.
And it could move down and we'd be happy or we'd be comfortable if it were to move up.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then I guess finally just -- as we do look at some of the assets on the balance sheet and you've gone through a lot of monetizations the last several quarters now is the value that we look at for the real estate and for some of the investments materially higher than what it's stated on the balance sheet for? Is there any way for us to think about that? David this is Gregg Givens.
I would tell you that the investments for the most part if they're publicly traded equities they're carried at fair value.
If they're not publicly traded and we have a couple of those they're generally carried at the lower cost of market.
So there can be a difference there between what we're carrying and that fair value.
On the real estate once again that's one that we carry at a lower cost or market as well.
So there could be a little bit of difference there in the carrying value on our balance sheet versus what the fair value is.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And yes I understand that.
I'm just wondering if you think there's a material difference between the 2.
Just so that we know over time if there could be limited or significant gains kind of what the range could be.
Well look I'm not going to speculate on what the fair value of some of these underlying assets are.
They're on our balance sheet.
We provide quite a bit of detail in the 10-K as to what they are and so forth.
So you have to make your own assessment on that going forward.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now return turn the call to Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you.
I'm pleased with our focus on improving core operations in 2013 where we saw significant gains in operating efficiency.
We plan to continue that focus in 2014.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
That does conclude the DST Systems' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.