Good morning and welcome to DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I'm going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional details at our financial results.
In the third quarter of 2014 consolidated net income was $100 million or $2.51 per diluted share which is an increase of 3.2% from $96.9 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $61.2 million or $1.54 per diluted share as compared to $52.8 million or $1.21 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013 an increase of 27% for the quarter.
Our results this quarter reflect the progress we continue to make against our strategic objectives.
We remain focused on making investments in our core operations to further enhance our customers' experience and the value we can bring to the markets that we serve while taking action to reduce costs in areas of our business that have seen changes in the business climate including the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments.
We believe these activities will position our company well to take advantage of future opportunities for growth.
In our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased 7.3% year-over-year to $266.9 million.
Positive net fund flows and favorable market conditions contributed to higher assets under management within our ALPS proprietary funds and growth within our brokerage and retirement solutions clients.
Operating revenues also increased from higher international investment management software license revenues and higher professional services fees for the implementation and configuration of our new wealth management clients.
Operating revenue growth was partially offset by a decline of 2.3 million registered accounts due to sub-accounting since September 30 2013.
Based upon our modeling and information obtained from our clients conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts for 2014 are currently estimated to be at the low end or slightly below the company's previous guidance of 3 million to 4 million accounts.
As you may recall we initially expected the conversion of between 4 million to 5 million accounts to subaccounting during 2014.
We reduced that guidance on the second quarter call to 3 million to 4 million.
The movement in our estimate reflects the fact that we have smaller blocks of accounts being converted which is challenging our modeling a bit.
For 2015 we expect conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts to be approximately 4 million to 5 million.
This projection in part reflects the movement of some accounts for 2014 to the 2015 time frame.
In our Financial Services segment we continue investing to expand our ALPS asset gathering business and to further develop our applied analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings.
These investments are in the form of people with product technical and sales expertise and technology both hardware and software.
We're excited by the valuable insights that our applied analytics group has been able to ascertain utilizing the expansive data that we have access to and the complex algorithms we have developed.
We are seeing positive traction with our customers in this area.
However it will take some time before we see meaningful contribution margins to the business.
We are confident that these investments will allow us to continue to expand sales to our existing client base and to capture greater market share in the long term.
Moving on to our Healthcare Services segment.
We once again saw double-digit growth in operating revenues which were up by $14.8 million or 18.3% as compared to third quarter of 2013.
This was due to higher medical claim transaction volumes professional services and additional business processing outsourcing revenues.
Pharmacy claim processing revenues also contributed to the increased segment revenues particularly due to Medicare Medicaid and healthcare exchange member growth at our existing clients.
During the quarter Healthcare Services segment income from operations increased $4.2 million to $15.6 million or 37% primarily due to strong revenue growth and operating leverage.
The increased revenues were partially offset by increased costs in expenses primarily related to additional staffing required to service our higher transaction volumes and customer implementations.
We're very pleased with the top line growth in our Healthcare Services segment which we believe reflects the quality of our client base.
We have also managed to maintain operating margins in the mid-teens.
During 2015 we will realize the impact of a previously announced client loss will have a negative impact on our overall top line growth and operating margins in the segment.
Our Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased $1.4 million to $159.1 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Our North American operations continue to be impacted by lower volumes which have been partially offset by higher revenues from our electronic and postal service solutions.
Throughout 2014 our team has been working diligently to convert new clients which we announced last year as well as a new client which we signed in the third quarter which is expected to result in approximately 24 million packages on an annual basis once fully converted.
We are just beginning to see some of the benefits from these new clients as conversions are being completed and expect to see the full benefit during 2015.
In the United Kingdom higher volumes from new and existing clients and favorable foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an increase in operating revenues of $1.9 million or 4.2%.
Customer Communications operating income decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year.
In North America reduced operating revenues contributed to the decrease while in the United Kingdom operating income increased slightly as a result of increased revenues and lower depreciation partially offset by higher operating costs to support the new revenues.
To put this in perspective we've been able to maintain operating margins in both North America and the United Kingdom despite the current costs associated with converting new clients that will enable us to generate new revenue in future periods.
We continue to focus on quality and operating efficiency in both markets while converting new clients and holding on to gains in operating margins that we have experienced over the last 3 years.
Our equity and nonconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by a significant increase in the earnings of International Financial Data Services U.K.
due to revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of new wealth management clients.
The implementation efforts involved for the 2 new clients are continuing to progress and will be multi-year efforts.
As we've discussed previously these projects require significant upfront development costs to adapt our Australian-based superannuation software to the U.K.
wealth marketplace.
We're excited about these projects and believe this is a very good opportunity for our joint venture company.
While we're pleased with the progress we have made we continue to believe there are additional actions we can take to improve our operations and further enhance the performance of our segments and overall business.
As part of our ongoing review of our businesses in the third quarter we took actions in our Financial Services and Customer Communications segments that are designed to reduce operating costs and streamline our business functions.
Within both the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments we began the process of shutting down certain of our satellite operations and transitioning work to our larger scale facilities.
We have notified all impacted employees and in total are reducing headcount by a few hundred positions across the company and expect to exit certain facilities by the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
These actions are the result of continued changes in the market including the conversion of registered accounts to subaccounts as well as the ongoing need to optimize our Customer Communications segment.
Our objective as always is to ensure the highest level of customer service while proactively adapting our business to the evolving environment.
Our view of the current and expected trends across these segments triggered these additional actions to enhance operational efficiency today and best position DST for the future.
As a result of these actions we incurred pretax charges in the third quarter 2014 of $6.4 million primarily within the Financial Services.
We anticipate an additional pretax charge in the fourth quarter of 2014 of approximately $7.5 million comprising a $4 million charge within Financial Services and $3.5 million charge at Customer Communications due to timing of employee benefit and lease termination costs related to these actions that were taken during the third quarter.
Beginning in 2015 we anticipate that these initiatives will generate annual pretax operating cost savings of approximately $13 million to $15 million of which approximately 75% will be realized within our Financial Services segment.
These savings will enhance our cash flows support margin stability and allow for additional investment in the businesses.
We have also continued our ongoing initiatives to monetize the company's nonoperating assets.
In the third quarter we received $100 million of pretax cash proceeds primarily resulting from the sale of $54.4 million in State Street stock and $32.1 million from the sale of non-DST occupied real estate holdings.
The space we sold represents approximately 40% of the company's portfolio of wholly-owned non-DST occupied real estate and we believe underscores our emphasis on streamlining our business structure and reducing our exposure to nonoperating assets.
We will continue to take prudent actions to achieve this objective.
Additionally we resumed the repurchasing of DST shares during the quarter.
We allocated approximately $92 million to repurchase approximately 1 million shares of DST common stock under our share repurchase plan which leaves approximately $158 million remaining under the existing plan.
Our strong balance sheet manageable debt levels and solid operating cash flow will allow us ample flexibility to fund our strategy and capitalize on the right opportunities for accretive growth as they become available.
We are simultaneously committed to reducing costs in areas of the business that we have seen change in the operating climate and we intend to continue delivering world class service to our customers while maintaining a successful track record for our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our third quarter financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $100 million or $2.51 per diluted share.
That compares to $96.9 million or $2.23 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
The 2014 third quarter results include the reversal of a loss accrual previously recorded for a 2012 regulatory inquiry within our Healthcare Services segment.
The inquiry was resolved during the third quarter for $4 million less than the amounts previously accrued for the matter.
Also impacting the GAAP results for the quarter is a favorable resolution of certain tax uncertainties which resulted in the reversal of a $4.5 million estimated tax liability.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter were $1.54 an increase of approximately 27.3% from $1.21 of earnings per share in the third quarter of 2013.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $510.5 million an increase of 6.3% or $30.3 million.
Adjusted consolidated operating income increased by 5.6% to $86.4 million which was driven by higher revenues in our Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments.
Consolidated operating margins for the quarter were 16.9% which is in line with the 17% operating margin that we had in the third quarter of 2013.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the results of each of our operating segments.
Our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $18.1 million or 7.3%.
ALPS revenues increased due to positive net fund flows and favorable market conditions.
Our brokerage and retirement groups had growth from new and existing clients while BlueDoor had higher professional service fees for the implementation and configuration of our wealth management platform in the U.K.
Additionally revenues increased $3.1 million from higher international investment management software license revenues.
These operating revenue increases continue to be partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareholder accounting processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services segment income from operations increased $500 000 or 0.09% to $56.7 million during the third quarter of 2014.
The higher operating revenues were offset by increased processing cost to support the incremental revenues as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we expand our ALPS asset gathering business and make investments to further develop our applied analytics and brokerage solutions service offerings.
In addition we continue to see increased cost from enhancing our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation cost the Financial Services operating margin was 21.1% in the third quarter which is a decrease from the 23.8% operating margin in third quarter of 2013.
The primary drivers of the decrease in operating margin are the continued decline of registered accounts and the investments that we're making to expand our service offerings and to develop our technology solutions which we believe will provide a strong growth opportunities in the future.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $14.8 million or 18.3% to $95.5 million.
The increase in revenues was driven by both increased medical claims transaction volumes and increased pharmacy claims processing volumes.
On our medical claim transaction platform we saw increased volumes from growth at existing clients as well as from new clients.
Our pharmacy claims processing revenues also increased due to increased claims for Medicare Medicaid and healthcare exchange members.
Overall income from operations in our Healthcare Services segment increased $4.2 million or 37% to $15.6 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher revenues partially offset by increased staffing and operating cost.
Our Healthcare Services operating margin for third quarter 2014 was 16.3% as compared to 14.1% in 2013.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues were $159.1 million a decrease of $1.4 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Despite a decrease in our North America operating revenues of $3.3 million operating income decreased by only $300 000 primarily due to cost savings initiatives.
Operating revenues in the U.K.
increased $1.9 million attributable to higher volumes from new and existing clients and favorable foreign exchange movements.
The U.K.
operating income of $200 000 is in line with the prior year quarter.
Although we had nice revenue growth in the U.K.
it was mostly offset by higher operating costs to support the higher volumes.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $10.2 million in the third quarter an increase of $8.1 million from last year.
IFDS equity earnings increased $7.9 million primarily due to revenues recognized from the ongoing conversion activities of 2 previously announced wealth management clients.
While we're starting to see benefits from the investments that are being made to build out the new wealth management platform for the U.K.
market earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress of the conversion efforts and therefore may not be consistent period-to-period throughout the implementation and conversion period.
The increase in other equity and earnings is primarily the result of higher earnings from real estate joint ventures partially offset by lower earnings from BFDS.
Our income tax rate for the third quarter was 33.7% as compared to 36.4% for the same quarter last year.
The lower income tax rate is primarily the result of an increase in the proportion of earnings related to our international operations.
We expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning to our share count.
Weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 39.8 million a decrease of 3.7 million shares or 8.5% from third quarter 2013.
The decrease is primarily a result of share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2013 and throughout 2014.
During the third quarter of 2014 we repurchased 1 million shares for $92.1 million under our existing share repurchase plan.
Finally on October 1 we renewed our revolving debt facility and increased the capacity to $850 million.
The new facility has a 5-year term.
Overall we ended the quarter with $87.5 million of cash and total debt has declined by approximately $60 million since the end of June to $612.1 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Well thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to briefly express my excitement about the future ahead of DST.
We're actively managing all aspects of our business to position DST for sustained growth and taking the necessary actions to increase efficiency and consolidate operations which will allow us to maintain operating margins.
We're executing well against our strategy and our businesses are delivering value to our customers.
By investing in our core operations to enhance customers' experience retaining our existing client base expanding into new markets and continuing to thoughtfully evaluate areas in which we can reduce costs we are confident that we can continue creating value for our shareholders.
I also want to thank our employees and management teams for all the hard work and supporting the execution of our strategy and driving value for all of our stakeholders.
I'm excited about the solid performance in the third quarter and believe our prospects are bright.
Look forward to continuing to update you as we move forward.
With that I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore.
This is Michael Hart on the line for David.
To start I guess I'd like to ask about the increase in your earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.
I know you said there will be some lumpiness from the client conversions but I guess in terms of thinking of a normalized run rate for that do you think $10 million per quarter is a sustainable number? No I don't.
And so let's just talk about what's happening there a little bit Michael.
As we said there's a -- in addition to the underlying core business which is doing record keeping for collectives in the U.K.
and offshore markets that underlying business has had really solid performance and really solid growth.
And so they are continuing to win and convert new customers as well as maintaining and retaining the important customer relationships that they have.
We then have 2 major projects going on.
And really what we've talked about is the development of a wealth platform that's based on some software that DST owns in Australia to support superannuation funds.
And so the development has been going on.
We've had people working on it and the projects with our customers are laid out in phases.
And so what happens is as we complete a phase and there's agreement with the customer then we have the opportunity under the accounting rules to recognize revenue.
So what you saw this quarter was our ability to recognize some revenue and really we've been carrying the cost of generating that revenue for quite a while.
It's going to continue to be uneven quarter-to-quarter and I would -- again I would not expect that it's going to be at the same level that it was this quarter.
But we do expect next year to be able to maintain the gains that we've had this year and hopefully improve on them.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then I guess turning to Financial Services I was wondering if you could quantify a bit the contributions to that 7% increase from ALPS and from the other parts of the business that you called out in the prepared remarks.
Yes Michael we don't break out that level of detail.
We really keep it at the segment level.
What I would tell you is we've been making investments in ALPS primarily on the asset gathering side of the business and asset management side of the business there.
And we're starting to see the benefits of those investments come through.
So again we've been carrying some expense for the better part of a year and I think particularly in ALPS and in other parts of Financial Services we're starting to see some of the benefit of those investments.
Okay.
That helps.
And if I can just one last question around the monetization of your investment assets.
Do you expect to sustain the current pace of about $100 million per quarter? And if so can you comment at all about how you plan to redeploy the cash flow from that monetization? Yes.
So -- this is Gregg Givens.
We've had a consistent pattern of monetizing directionally the $100 million a quarter over the past few quarters.
And we'd like people to think about -- we don't want to get into a discussion on our forward pace but we'd like people to think that we're going to be consistent.
In terms of deploying the capital that comes off of the monetizations and so forth we look to invest back in the company.
We'd like to manage our debt levels return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and look at opportunistic acquisitions.
Our next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just curious how much pull forward seasonally there was in the Healthcare segment.
Yes David I'm -- it's a good question that is very hard for us to identify.
We think there has been -- some of the -- some of what we would have expected in the fourth quarter got pulled into the third quarter.
But I would tell you that the majority of the growth we think was just due to good underlying performance by our customers.
So again if you kind of think about our business right we're wholesaling to customers who are selling to the end market.
And again in my prepared comments I mentioned that our growth in the Healthcare business like in all of our businesses is really a reflection of the quality of the customer base that we have.
So I think there was a little bit of revenue being pulled in from the fourth quarter but we had a really solid third quarter.
And again that's due to the success that our customers are having.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's good to hear.
And then this is pretty widespread between Customer Communications revenue and [indiscernible] or packages mailed wondering how much of that benefit is digital in moderating the revenue decline.
Is that an important part of that story? Yes.
So it's interesting right? You're -- what you're seeing is physical print and packages declining.
You're not seeing the same level of decline in both revenue and profits in that sector.
And you've touched on it precisely.
We're seeing an increase in the electronic presentment of statements and images to our customers.
And as we've talked about in the past there's a lower revenue unit there but a higher profit margin.
So the Customer Communications segment this quarter was pressured.
The good news is we talked about last quarter a large customer that we were converting and talked about that we expected to see that -- the benefit of that come in the fourth quarter but that it could potentially move to the first quarter.
And I guess the really good news is that we have in fact come to agreement with the customer to start production and we saw the first benefits of that in the last couple of months.
And so I think next year we'll see some of that additional revenue in bottom line profit pull through.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's really good news and you also signed another one.
We did yes.
The team has done a really fabulous job over there.
We did sign another customer.
And actually a part of what we -- part of the work that we're doing for them we were able to spin-up pretty quickly so we saw a very small amount of benefit.
But that one will come online a little bit quicker than our typical conversion.
So that's good news.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on -- the net debt-to-trailing EBITDA I think is about 1x now.
Can you just an update if you changed your view around your target debt leverage levels? Or where are you now comfortable? And where could debt leverage go up to? Well David we're very comfortable with the current debt levels at the 1x.
We've mentioned before that we'd be comfortable on a long-term basis at somewhere between 2x to 2.25x.
So we had some room there but we're not looking to change that profile immediately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I get one last question in.
It's been about 3 years since your last acquisition.
How does your deal pipeline and if you'd be willing to share some of the areas of potential interest in M&amp;A for you? Sure.
We're in the market always and I -- so I'll tell you a couple of things around investing in the business.
We're making a lot of investments right now basically through the balance sheet right? So we've talked about building out capability -- additional distribution capabilities within ALPS.
We've talked in the past and mentioned again today an initiative that we have that we've launched and are working on around applied analytics.
We continue to invest through the balance sheet in our retirement sector and in our brokerage sector.
And of course you've seen in the U.K.
a major investment that we've -- has been flowing through the balance sheet for almost 1.5 years now in the wealth management sector.
So we think of M&amp;A as just a part of the overall investment strategy of the company and around specific areas we've I think been pretty open that the ALPS business for us has been a nice growth business.
We'd love to expand that business.
We're doing it again through the balance sheet and through the hard work of the associates there.
But to the extent we had acquisition opportunities in the space that ALPS operates we're -- we'd be very interested.
Applied analytics is a focus for the company.
We think it's a big potential future opportunity.
And again retirement and brokerage -- so I don't want to exclude any areas but if you ask about the real focus areas I'd say those would be kind of top of mind.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say on the IFDS side that -- I'm just trying to approximate and acknowledging that we're going to see phases of revenue recognition there but added about $0.10 EPS in the quarter? Is that about right? Give us 1 sec Pete.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I'll ask maybe while Gregg's working on that ask another question for you Steve.
ALPS we've just seen phenomenal growth 40% year-over-year growth in AUMA.
I know you don't want to talk too much about the individual piece of the business.
But if I look back to the revenue makeup of ALPS when you acquired it and based on the growth of the AUMA would it be fair to say that approximately 5% of operating revenue is now geared to 1 basis point spread of asset under management administration or it would be a little bit more of that? So Pete let me ask a clarifying question.
Are you talking about 5% of ALPS or 5% of the overall company? LLC Research Division</strong> 5% of operating -- total operating revenue.
If I remember correctly ALPS was like $110 million of revenue with -- I thought at times of a roughly 40% coming from...
Yes.
So the answer is yes.
You're directionally correct.
It's in the 5% to 7% kind of range.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then...
I think the other thing well let me give you just a little bit more detail Pete which might be helpful.
There's really 2 parts of ALPS right? There's an asset management and asset gathering part of the business and then an asset servicing part of the business.
We've seen good growth on both sides.
But the growth on the asset management and asset gathering side of the business has been -- it's growing at a faster rate and becoming a bigger part of the ALPS story.
So very pleased with both parts of the business have a great management team up there in Denver leading this company.
And again we've been investing I'd say more heavily in growing out the asset gathering and asset management side of that business.
And I know last quarter we talked a little bit about how we think about the growth there.
And so the assets under management to think about the split about 70% of the growth is new fund flows and about 30% is market action.
And so that's consistent with the numbers we talked about last quarter but a little bit more detail on the business there.
Then Pete going back to your question on IFDS because of the carry-through impact of foreign tax credits and things like that IFDS was probably a little bit in excess of $0.15 for the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- when I -- I think -- you're executing on both sides of the strategy here you continue to monetize assets.
But probably more importantly that the organic growth and the margins are following through and that's really what investors are going to be placing value on.
But one question I get when I'm talking to investors is if the company has made the strategic decision to access these non-core assets why do we take 3 years to do it? And do you think that maybe the market risk that you're assuming -- now granted some of those are very illiquid and I understand it's not a fire sale but other assets -- I guess sometimes I feel like the market risk you're taking in some of these other assets by not selling them faster is impeding the multiple and preventing us to get to that point where you actually have -- the buy side of it wants to look at an easy valuation that can't quite get there because there's still this big chunk of other assets on the balance sheet.
So can you talk a little bit more about your rationale for having a very measured pace for monetization? Well sure.
Pete I'm not sure I'd call it a rationale.
We have a strategy.
We have a strategy around the capital management of the company that Gregg and I have worked through with our board.
We have a pace that we're comfortable with and we think makes sense for what we're trying to do with the company.
I would tell you the vast majority of my time attention and focus is on the operating parts of the company right? And so we have the pace discussion a lot.
What I tell you is we're comfortable with the pace and our board is comfortable with the pace and our Chief Financial Officer is comfortable with the pace.
And really what we're focusing on is how do we build an operating company for the future.
And so I know it's probably not what you're looking for but again I think Gregg's commentary around being consistent is what the market should expect.
And again really what we're focused on is the operating parts of the company.
And to your point we're showing progress there right? LLC Research Division</strong> That's fair enough.
That's fair enough.
That is a question that comes up in every discussion.
I understand and I appreciate your asking.
LLC Research Division</strong> One last housekeeping question for Gregg.
Shares end of period? Basic shares? Yes.
So basic shares were 37 -- I'm sorry outstanding shares was 38.7 million shares at the end of Q3 2014.
And that was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
We appreciate everybody dialing in.
Again we want to thank our employees and management team for the hard work that they are doing in executing our strategy and we certainly look forward to updating you after next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.