Good morning.
Welcome to DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I plan to start going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional detail on our financial results.
We're very pleased to bring 2014 to a close with solid performance across all of our businesses.
In the quarter consolidated net income was $255.1 million or $6.65 per diluted share which is an increase of $171.1 million from $84 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $66.4 million or $1.73 per diluted share as compared to $57 million or $1.34 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013 an increase of approximately 29% for the quarter.
Our results this quarter reflect the continued progress we are making against our strategic objectives.
We've made several organizational changes to consolidate and centralize certain functions within our business and these changes have allowed us to increase our efficiency and consistency across the business for the benefit of all stakeholders.
This has been evidenced by our growth in operating revenues and increases in our healthcare and customer communication operating margins.
You've also heard us say for some time now that we regularly evaluate all aspects of our business to ensure that we are best positioned for growth and value creation.
As part of this ongoing evaluation we determined that DST Global Solutions was not a key component of our long-term strategic plan.
We sold Global Solutions which provide stand-alone investment management software solutions during the quarter for cash consideration of $95 million.
The company recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale during the fourth quarter of 2014.
We anticipate using the proceeds from the sale to support our overall capital plan which includes continuing to invest in the growth of our business.
In early January we purchased kasina a strategic advisor to asset managers for $14 million.
This acquisition is part of our strategy to become the dominant solution partner to distribution companies at asset management firms.
With the addition of kasina DST's Distribution Solutions group now offers asset managers a market-leading combination of advisory research technology and analytics that enables a deeper understanding of their customers along with better marketing and selling capabilities.
We believe this acquisition will support the continued execution of our strategy and will position our company well to take advantage of opportunities for growth in 2015 and beyond.
Moving to our segment results in our Financial Services segment operating revenues in the quarter increased 2.4% year-over-year to $264.3 million.
The increase in operating revenues was primarily due to net positive fund flows which contributed to higher assets under management within our ALPS proprietary funds.
Operating revenues also increased due to organic and new client growth within Brokerage Solutions and higher professional services fees within the Retirement Solutions group.
Operating revenue growth was negatively impacted by the sale of Global Solutions at the end of November by a decrease in software revenues and by the continued decline in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Total mutual funds share on our accounts decreased by 400 000 accounts to 97.4 million accounts during the quarter and registered shareowner accounts processed as of December 31 decreased 600 000 from the prior quarter and 2.4 million from the prior year primarily from subaccounting conversions.
This represents approximately 1/2 of our initial projection for subaccounting conversions during 2014.
As we've discussed in the past there are a variety of factors that affect the number and timing of registered accounts converting to subaccounts.
Our current estimate for the conversion of registered accounts to subaccounts during 2015 remains at 4 million to 5 million accounts for the year as we expect a portion of the conversions we had initially anticipated in 2014 will now occur during 2015.
Based on our historical experience we anticipate that approximately 25% of the converted accounts will be migrated onto the DST subaccounting platform and due to the relatively small size of the remaining blocks that we expect may convert beyond 2015 we plan to discontinue our guidance beyond 2015 in this area as the expected impacts will not be significant to our operations.
Financial Services segment income from operations decreased $2.9 million or 5% during the quarter compared to the prior year period partially due to the sale of Global Solutions in November of 2014.
Income from operations was also impacted by a $3 million decrease in software license revenues which tend to have very high operating margins additionally increased processing cost to support the incremental processing revenues as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we continue to expand our ALPS asset gathering business and to make investments to further develop our applied analytics and Brokerage Solutions offerings.
Moving to our Healthcare Services segment.
We once again saw year-over-year growth in operating revenues which are up by $11.2 million or 12.4% as compared to fourth quarter of 2013.
This was due to higher pharmacy claims processing revenues principally due to Medicare Medicaid and Healthcare Exchange member growth at our existing clients.
Additionally increases in discount card services and other ancillary services further added to the higher revenues over the prior-year period.
Increased medical claim transaction volumes also contributed to the increased operating revenues due to growth from existing and new clients and higher business processing outsourcing revenues.
During the quarter our Healthcare Services segment income from operations increased $3.2 million or 16.2% to $23 million primarily due to higher operating revenues partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to complete new client implementations and to service the increased transaction volumes.
Despite these increased costs we were able to improve operating margins in the quarter from 21.9% to 22.6%.
We're very pleased with the Healthcare Segment's results for 2014 and see continued growth in the core healthcare operations.
A previously announced client that chose not to renew their contract with us completed the deconversion of approximately 40% of their business on January 1.
The remainder of the deconversion is expected to occur in stages over the next 2 years and will create headwinds to our growth in this segment.
Our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased $1.3 million to $163.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our client conversion teams have worked diligently this year on the implementation of new clients and we are beginning to see some of the benefits from these new clients as conversions are being completed.
During our fourth quarter we completed the initial implementation of a major new customer that has been previously announced.
We have over half of this client implemented at this time and plan to implement the remainder in stages over the next 3 quarters.
Customer Communications operating income increased $5.5 million during the quarter to $15.1 million with increases in both North America and the United Kingdom.
Higher operating revenues combined with our operating efficiency efforts in both North America and the U.K.
have enabled us to show continued improvement in our Customer Communication operating results while maintaining our focus on quality.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by higher earnings from IFDS partially offset by lower earnings from BFDS and other investments.
The increase in IFDS equity and earnings from fourth quarter 2013 is primarily the result of revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of our previously announced new wealth management clients in the United Kingdom.
The implementation efforts involved for the 2 new clients are continuing to progress and we are excited by the opportunity for IFDS to expand its infrastructure and associated service offerings within the U.K.
market.
We've also continued our ongoing initiatives to monetize the company's nonoperating assets in the fourth quarter.
We received $103.6 million of pretax cash proceeds primarily resulting from the sale of $91.3 million in State Street stock and $10.5 million from private equity investment distributions.
Additionally in the quarter we spent $107.9 million to repurchase approximately 1.2 million shares of DST common stock.
In January of 2015 the company spent $50 million to purchase an additional 525 000 shares which completes the existing share repurchase plan.
We're pleased to announce that on January 28 our board authorized a new 250 million share repurchase plan.
Furthermore in the fourth quarter DST paid a dividend of $0.30 per share and our board recently declared another $0.30 per share quarterly dividend for the first quarter of 2015.
We're pleased to make these announcements and believe these actions underscore our commitment to returning capital to shareholders.
During 2014 DST made positive progress in each of its business segments and we are moving ahead in our strategy to drive growth to operate efficiently and prudently manage our business.
We're pleased with the operating revenue growth we've achieved during 2014 and believe we're well-positioned for growth in 2015 and beyond.
Our objective as always is to ensure the highest level of client service while proactively adapting our business to the evolving environment.
Our strong balance sheet decisive actions to streamline our business and reduce cost manageable debt levels and solid operating cash flow have allowed us to continue investing in our business and capitalizing on the right opportunities for growth.
We are simultaneously committed to delivering world-class service to our clients while returning capital to our shareholders.
We'll continue to take actions to enhance operational efficiency today and to best position DST for the future.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our fourth quarter financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $255.1 million or $6.65 per diluted shares.
This compares to $84 million or $1.97 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 fourth quarter results include a pretax gain of $100.5 million from the sale of the Global Solutions business.
Also impacting the GAAP results for the quarter is the favorable resolution of certain tax uncertainties which resulted in the reversal of $30.8 million of estimated tax liabilities.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share this quarter was $1.73 an increase of 29.1% from the $1.34 of diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year we reported non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $5.55 an increase of 21.4% from the $4.57 of earnings per share for the full year 2013.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $516.7 million an increase of 3.3% or $16.6 million.
Consolidated operating income increased by 5.5% to $93.5 million.
Increased revenue across all of our operating segments combined with efficiencies achieved in cost management contributed to this growth.
These efficiencies were partially offset by the increasing cost to address regulatory compliance and security requirements throughout the organization as well as investments in new products and services.
Consolidated operating margins for the quarter were 18.1% as compared to 17.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the results of each of our operating segments.
Our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $6.3 million.
As previously mentioned we sold the Global Solutions business on November 30.
Since we only had 2 months results in the fourth quarter of 2014 this resulted in a $7.4 million reduction in operating revenues in fourth quarter 2014 as compared to fourth quarter 2013.
Also December has historically been a large revenue month for Global Solutions.
Excluding the impact of Global Solutions operating revenues for each of the comparative quarters our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $13.7 million or 5.7%.
From an operating standpoint we had increased revenues from net positive fund flows and overall positive market conditions leading to growth in ALPS assets under management.
It should be noted that the performance of our ALPS business is increasingly impacted by the performance of global markets which can lead to revenue volatility as several of our funds are invested in commodities energy and international interest.
Operating revenues were also favorably impacted by higher professional service revenues in our Retirement Solutions business as well as organic and new client growth within our Brokerage Solutions business.
These increases in operating revenues were partially offset by lower software license revenues and the continued decline in our mutual fund registered shareowner account processing due to subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services segment income from operations decreased $2.9 million or 5% to $54.8 million during fourth quarter 2014 as compared to the prior year.
This decrease was partially due to the sale of Global Solutions which had $600 000 less operating income as a result of only having 2 months of operations in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Income from operations was also lower due to a decrease in software license sales increased processing costs to support the incremental processing revenues and higher cost of investments in new business initiatives within ALPS Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions.
In addition we continue to see increased costs from enhancing our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Excluding deferred compensation cost the Financial Services segment operating margin was 21.1% for the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to 23.8% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $11.2 million or 12.4% to $101.8 million.
The increase in revenues was driven by increased Medicare Medicaid discount card and healthcare exchange pharmacy claims processing.
Also contributing to the increase were higher medical claims transaction processing from new and existing business process outsourcing clients.
Overall income from operations in our Healthcare Services segment increased $3.2 million or 16.2% to $23 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher operating revenues partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to service the increased transaction volumes.
Our Healthcare Services operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2014 was 22.6% as compared to 21.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The fourth quarter 2014 operating margin of 22.6% is higher than the full-year 2014 operating margin of 14.9%.
It should be noted that the Healthcare Services segment operating margins are generally higher in the fourth quarter principally due to the timing of software license sales and the finalization of annual service level incentive payments.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues were $163.3 million an increase of $1.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our North America operating revenues increased $1 million or 0.9% to $114.6 million.
The increase primarily relates to initiating processing mid-quarter for a previously announced client which is expected to be one of the largest customers for the segment once fully converted.
This increased volume was partially offset by decreased volumes from existing clients and an unfavorable movement in the Canadian dollar versus the U.S.
dollar.
Our U.K.
operating revenues increased $300 000 or 0.6% to $48.7 million.
The U.K.
operating revenues were adversely impacted in the quarter from the decline in the value of the Great Britain pound.
Income from operations for the Customer Communications segment increased $5.5 million during the fourth quarter 2014 to $15.1 million.
Operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2014 were 9.2% as compared to 5.9% in 2013.
We had improved margins in both our North America and U.K.
operations.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $10.2 million up sharply from $4.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Equity and earnings of IFDS increased by $8 million to $8.8 million primarily as a result of ongoing conversion activities of the new wealth management clients in the U.K.
As a reminder earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress of the conversion efforts and therefore may not be consistent from period to period throughout the implementation and conversion phases.
BFDS equity and earnings declined from fourth quarter 2013 primarily due to lower shareholder processing revenues which were partially offset by increased revenues from other ancillary services.
Favorable reductions in BFDS operating expenses were largely offset by investments in ancillary product offerings the timing of commission expenses and severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 33.3% a decrease from the 38.2% tax rate in the same quarter last year.
Our lower tax rate is primarily the result of an increase in the proportion of earnings related to international operations in 2014 and the fourth quarter cumulative catch-up for the retroactive renewal of the research and experimentation credits.
Our full-year tax rate was 34.5% in line with our expectations of approximately 35%.
We expect our income tax rate for 2015 to be approximately 36%.
Turning to our share count weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 38.4 million a decrease of 4.2 million shares or 9.9% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
This is largely attributable to share repurchases made throughout 2014.
As Steve mentioned we completed our previous share repurchase program and are pleased to announce that our board has authorized an additional $250 million share repurchase plan.
We ended the quarter with $151.7 million of cash and $552 million of debt.
Finally during 2014 we had $115.7 million of capital expenditures which is less than we had originally projected for the year.
The decrease is primarily due to the timing of expenditures for our new generator plant which we now expect to be completed in 2015.
We are estimating $120 million of capital expenditures in 2015 which includes approximately $20 million of expenditures for completing the new generator plant.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to briefly express my excitement about the future ahead for DST.
We're executing well against our strategy of retention and growth of our client base the enhancement of our portfolio and a continued focus on delivering value to our clients.
We are prudently allocating capital to strengthen our business and deliver shareholder value and I'm excited by how far we've come.
I also want to take a moment to express my appreciation to our employees and management teams all of whom contributed to our solid performance across our businesses this quarter and the success of DST in 2014.
By combining the talent of our employees with our customer solutions and industry experience I'm confident that the future is bright in 2015.
At this point I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Steve and Gregg this is Mike Landau on the call for David Togut.
To start we noted the centralization of business function activity in the past year.
Can you update us on your cost savings target for 2015? Yes Mike.
We don't give guidance on any cost savings targets.
I mean I guess what I would tell you is like every well-run business we're very focused on delivering value to our customers expanding revenue investing in the business but also keeping an eye on operating expenses.
So I like to tell everybody we are in an operating business so we wake up every day thinking about how to improve that across all of our businesses and I think what we've seen this year and it's come through really in terms of increased operating margins is an improvement in the underlying expense base of our core business.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then shifting over to IFDS given the large earnings improvement you hinted that going forward this could be a bit lumpy but overall can you quantify the expected earnings contribution of IFDS in 2015? Yes again we don't give that level of guidance.
I think you're right we've used that very technical term lumpy and I think that's going to continue and here's the reason right.
What's happening over -- there's 2 things happening at IFDS okay? The first is we run a record-keeping business there for collective funds and that's been the main line of that business for a very long time.
That business continues to progress.
It continues to win new customers.
They've got conversions that are ongoing and that business is performing extraordinarily well.
We also have this new line of business that we've talked about in the wealth management space and there are major projects going on there to both develop the solution and implement that solution with our customers.
And so as Gregg pointed out what happens there is we have revenue recognition that takes place after certain project milestones are hit and that's dependent upon us delivering the solution and our customers working with us to accept that solution.
And so the timing of when we're going to be able to recognize those revenues is something that happens between us and our customer.
In the fourth quarter we had a significant amount of that revenue recognition take place and again it will happen next year but it won't happen on a steady or even basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just shifting over to core assets so at what pace do you expect to monetize non-core assets in 2015 given the last 2 quarters have been quite consistent? Yes so Mike throughout 2014 we were monetizing at a rate of about -- right at $100 million a quarter and we like to think -- have people think of us as being consistent as we go into 2015.
Of course we can always alter that if the right opportunity presented itself.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off on the healthcare business.
Obviously there is a run off of a large customer there.
I was hoping maybe you can sort of help us think through the growth profile of that business in 2015 at least sort of the timing of when we might see the impact.
Yes so George this is the customer that we've talked about now for -- going on 2 years.
So as I mentioned January 1 roughly 40% of the volume deconverted okay? So we're going to have the full-year impact of that deconversion and then the remainder of the volume will at this point deconvert over the next 2 years okay? Now here's what I'd tell you.
Just like on the inbound side sometimes conversions get pushed or delayed.
On the outbound side sometimes deconversions get pushed or delayed.
The 40% decline has locked in.
It happened on January 1.
So we've got year-over-year a bit of a tough comparison because we had that revenue for full year in 2014.
We'll have none of that 40% revenue in 2015.
And so I would tell you that when we first announced this client not renewing their contract with us it was 2013 and the statement that we made was that we expected between 2013 and the end of 2015 on a net basis we would be able to grow through the loss and I'd say we remain -- that continues to be our position okay? So as you think about our healthcare sector in 2015 I think we will have what I'm going to call nominal top line growth.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Yes that's definitely helpful appreciate the color on that.
And just in terms of sort of the margin profile not too much of a change from what we've seen? On a full-year basis I would say -- what we've said is that we expect these businesses run kind of in the mid-teens.
We saw that kind of performance out of this business unit this year.
I think Gregg talked about fourth quarter is typically a very strong margin quarter for us in that business due to some incentive payments that we get in working with our customers as well as software sales.
But yes I would say George we're comfortable that this business should run kind of in that range in that kind of mid-teen range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then Gregg you mentioned on the outside some exposure to commodities and FX.
I'm not sure did you quantify what the AUM exposure is in percentage terms or...
Well we have a little over $15 billion of assets under management at ALPS at the end of the year.
Approximately 65% of the funds that make up that assets under management are in areas such as commodities energy and international interest.
And when we look at the ALPS business directionally and this is across the whole ALPS business if there's a 10% increase in assets under management or a 10% decrease in assets under management it could translate into a $10 million change in revenues on a full-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for me it doesn't sound like it but nothing new going on in terms of brokers looking at converting tax-advantaged accounts into subaccounts right? It doesn't sound like there's anything new on that front.
Yes George.
I'd say that's accurate.
We -- I think it's worthwhile to just talk about '14 and kind of what happened there.
We initially came into 2014 we had an estimated 4 million to 5 million accounts.
We down-sided that estimate to 3 million to 4 million at the end of the second quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we said that we were expecting to be at the low end of that range and we actually ended out the year with about -- not about with 2.4 million accounts deconverting.
We then last quarter gave guidance for this year 2015 in the 4 million to 5 million range because again some of those conversions that didn't happen in '14 we expect to move to '15.
And you're right there's really no new news on that front other than we do expect that in 2016 as I mentioned this -- we expect this to be fairly de minimis in terms of impact on the overall operations of the company.
Now again that could change but today I would say no new news to report.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Were the cost savings actions that you took in the fourth quarter at a full run rate through the quarter or should we expect some additional benefit there in the first quarter '15? Yes so those cost savings actions we initiated them in the third quarter 2014 but what we indicated was that portions of those were actually going to take place toward the latter part of 2014.
And so in the aggregate those cost savings initiatives between the severance and lease abandonment and things like that totaled $15.1 million of charges between third and fourth quarter and we expect it to yield directionally $12 million to $15 million of savings in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I know the timing of the multiyear implementation revenue in IFDS is difficult but could you give us some idea of the total project size that you expect? Yes David we don't size the overall project.
I mean let's take a look at IFDS and these are obviously numbers that are out there.
If we think about the earnings at IFDS 2013 was just over $3 million.
2014 up about almost $19 million and so a huge uptick this year.
We would not expect that kind of growth next year and into the future but -- and again based on timing of when we can recognize those revenues I do expect we're going to see a little bit of growth out of that business unit next year but nothing to the extent we saw over the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful and then we're estimating about 100 to 150 basis points drag on revenue from FX in 2015.
Is that roughly in the ballpark? Yes.
So we've looked at the foreign currency.
It's -- clearly there's been a lot of decreasing currencies after -- against the U.S.
dollar within the last 60 days.
Let me size it for you this way David if I can because we really looked at it in terms of what the impact was to earnings per share.
But if we took the average rates that we converted all of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements in 2014 and we also take out Global Solutions which we sold on November 30 all right and then we just basically plug in the current rates that we have right now back into that schedule we estimate that the drag on earnings per share is a little over $0.05 for 2014.
We think the effects on 2015 might be a little bit higher.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And last one for me is there anything unusual about operating profit in the Customer Communications segment? And I know you've done a great job in raising margins here over the last couple of years.
Would you expect the uptick in volumes there from new customer wins to enable you to continue margin expansion in that segment? So David again -- and I appreciate the comment and I would concur with you.
I think the management team both in North America and in the U.K.
has done a fabulous job there and our full year margin for 2014 across the 2 segments in that business was right up at about 9% 8.8%.
I think there's a little bit more margin expansion that we can get out of that business not the kind of improvements that we've seen over the last 36 or 48 months but we're approaching a number that we're very comfortable with.
Initially we talked about in North America trying to get to double-digit earnings in that business and in fact the team was able to accomplish that in 2014.
I'd like to hope that as an overall segment we could maybe get to that double-digit earnings sometime in the not too distant future and again I think that would be tremendous improvement not only in the U.S.
business but really in the U.K.
business.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a few clean up questions.
Gregg was the end of period share count 37.6 million? Yes it was 37.6 million and the average diluted shares for the quarter were 38.4 million shares.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then should we assume that revenue contribution from kasina is that pretty nominal something $5 million $6 million $7 million or would it be larger than that? No.
It is nominal Pete.
And let me just talk for a minute about the strategy around that acquisition.
kasina has a great reputation and presence in the asset management distribution what I'd say consulting and advising business.
And we have tools that our asset management customers use as well as we have some designs on some tools that we like to build and some data analytics tools that we feel like would be extremely helpful in that marketplace and so the strategy and the thought process around acquiring kasina was acquiring intellectual capability as well as market presence that would allow them to help us distribute our products further and quite honestly to help us with product development.
So it really wasn't an acquisition designed around acquiring immediate revenues.
It was really an acquisition around acquiring people and market presence to allow us to expand that business over the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then as regards to your commentary on future subaccounting losses so I guess what I inferred from your commentary is that subaccounting headwinds should -- are expected to moderate significantly in 2016 and I believe your comment was really all -- at that point by the end of 2015 all of the large blocks should have at that time been converted.
So should we interpret that as potentially a diminished headwind for registered accounts in 2016 but also a -- potentially a slowdown in the growth of subaccounts in 2016? Do you think there are still opportunities to win competitive takeaways of blocks of subaccounts in the marketplace over the next couple of years? Yes so a few questions in there all of which are good.
So let me parse them out a little bit.
So the answer is yes again we've got an estimate of 4 million to 5 million for this year and if that plays out -- now of course Pete we had the estimate for 2014 and we got half that number right so -- but if that plays out in '15 when we look at our modeling for '16 and beyond yes it becomes -- if you think about it at the corporate level it becomes somewhat de minimis to our overall results.
So again expected today that's the case.
Then your question was around the subaccounting business and what's happening in our subaccounting business.
And we had nice growth in our subaccounting business this year and it was virtually all organic right? And so if you think about what's happening in the marketplace and we've talked about this many fewer direct to fund accounts being set up most new accounts are being set up through a brokerage option and end up on a subaccounting platform.
So I expect that our core record-keeping business the transfer agency direct to fund transfer agency business yes we expect the headwinds in 2016 to moderate.
I do expect in our subaccounting business that we're going to see organic growth as new accounts get set up and end up on that platform and as our customers are successful in attracting new business.
And we do believe there's some opportunity to potentially move some other existing blocks of subaccounting business over to our platform.
And again that's something that we've got teams obviously working on that but that's a sales process that takes a while and then I would tell you not unlike a transfer agent conversion or a healthcare conversion.
Those conversions take quite a while before you see first dollar revenue.
Your final question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
I guess first of all in the healthcare business last year really throughout the year you grew your covered lives by about 3% or kind of low single digits and you grew claims by around 10%.
That was pretty stable through the year yet revenues grew 15% so the yield on those claims and/or lives was very good growing pretty nicely.
Is that kind of how you also expect 2015 to play out? I get there's some moving parts.
If anything it seems like the yield on those would go up as you lose a big client that probably gets lower pricing than average.
Just kind of wondering if that yield is sustainably higher over time.
Yes.
So I think Robert what maybe is missing there is some of the ancillary revenues that we get that wouldn't necessarily be captured in number of lives or number of claims and so we've got a discount card program that we've seen nice growth in.
As you know we sell some software licenses in through our healthcare business and so I think the spread between the metric of lives and claims versus the spread in revenue increase and margin increase is really due to those other ancillary businesses and the growth that we've seen in those and again I would just caution you we had the discussion earlier our growth in the healthcare sector for 2015 is going to be very negatively impacted by this deconversion that took place.
Research Division</strong> Yes that totally makes sense.
And then as we look into '15 in the financial business it sounds like no big change in direction that the core recordkeeping business probably keeps declining.
But the other few businesses that really grew well last year the TRAC business grew number of accounts by like high-20s%.
International business I think did well.
ALPS obviously did well.
Are the trajectories there continuing to be very positive or is it a little hard? I mean TRAC it's a tougher comp.
ALPS has been growing so well.
Do the comps get tougher that those can't keep growing at such high levels? I'm not sure on the TRAC business.
I think 20% is a little bit high.
We did have some growth there but the growth there was more in the low to mid-single digit maybe 4% kind of growth so -- but the question is on -- I think your core question is on a comparative basis does it get more difficult.
The answer is of course it gets more difficult.
That said we are constantly introducing new products.
We expect again with the acquisition of kasina we hope to see some uptick in our Distribution Solutions products that we provide to the marketplace.
And so look we were very happy with top line growth in the Financial Services sector in 2014 and so I think to the extent that we could maintain that level of growth I think we'd -- we would call that a success in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Yes and that's -- that all makes sense and you're right TRAC didn't grow as fast but you changed your reporting last year and so our numbers reflect that.
So great job though.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll now return the call to Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great well thank you.
We're very pleased with the enhancements that we made to your business in 2014 and the growth we saw on the fourth quarter and I look forward to continuing our progress in 2015.
Thank you all for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you for participating in the DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.