Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the Company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the Company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems first quarter of 2015 earnings call.
With me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I'm going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional detail on our financial results.
In the first quarter of 2015 consolidated net income was $107.8 million or $2.87 per diluted share which is an increase of approximately 7.4% from $100.4 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $52.6 million or $1.40 per diluted share as compared to $47.5 million or $1.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014 an increase of 25% in diluted EPS for the quarter.
Our results for the first quarter reflect the continuing positive momentum we experienced throughout 2014.
We continue to experience a strong operating environment in our Financial and Healthcare segments and our efforts in Customer Communications are supporting improved results both year-over-year and on a sequential basis.
We expect 2015 will be challenging from a revenue perspective and difficult to compare on a year-over-year basis as we've been impacted by a number of factors.
Principally we sold Global Solutions in 2014 which contributed $14.9 million of operating revenue in the first quarter of 2014.
Additionally we experienced negative foreign currency movements which resulted in a $7.3 million reduction in operating revenues through the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 2014.
We're also seeing slower growth in our ALPS proprietary funds due to softening of the energy and commodity markets as well as lower Healthcare revenues as a result of the partial de-conversion of a previously announced client.
While our operating footprint naturally helps to hedge against the impact of foreign exchange the combination of foreign exchange challenges and the effect of stock commodity and energy markets on our clients will continue to put pressure on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
While 2015 will be challenging I'm confident in our effective execution and expect it will continue to help minimize the impact of these headwinds.
Underscoring our efforts this quarter we achieved new client revenues and organic growth at existing clients particularly in our Customer Communications North American operations as well as new software license sales in our Business Process Solutions business.
We are excited about the two new acquisitions we've announced since January.
We recently announced the acquisition of Red Rocks Capital which we expect to close in the second half of 2015 subject to certain customary approvals.
Red Rocks is a leading domestic money manager of package listed private equity products in a 40x structure.
The firm manages and advises 1.8 billion in assets through a variety of product structures including mutual funds sub-advised relationships separately managed accounts and third-party variable annuities.
We view Red Rocks as an important strategic addition to our ALPS asset management business.
As a leader in listed private equity and private asset investments the addition of Red Rocks will strengthen our foundation in the alternative investments marketplace and will allow us to better leverage our existing relationship.
In our last call we discussed with you our purchase of Kasina which closed in January.
Kasina has brought strong new partnerships to DST distribution solutions and while it was a small acquisition it has already helped us strengthen and broaden some of our existing relationships with asset management firms.
Before moving to our segment results for the quarter I want to remind everyone of the new segment presentation outlined in our earnings release issued today.
We have modified our reportable segments to reflect recent changes and how we operate our businesses and make resource allocations.
In addition to these operational changes we also have included real estate that is utilized principally by our business operations within the respected segments rather than within our Investments and Other segment.
Additional details are in our press release and prior periods have been revised to be consistent with the new segment presentation.
Now for our results for the quarter.
In our Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased slightly by 1.9% or $5.2 million to $266.6 million compared to the first quarter of 2014.
As a reminder the sale of Global Solutions in the fourth quarter of 2014 will negatively impact our period-over-period revenue comparisons for this quarter and for the remainder of the year.
Excluding Global Solutions operating revenues increased by $9.7 million this increase is attributed to growth across a number of our operating divisions including ALPS Brokerage and Retirement as well as higher business process solutions software license sales.
Particularly offsetting these increases in revenue were declines in mutual fund or I'm sorry partially offsetting these increases in revenues were declines in mutual fund registered processing revenue and negative foreign currency impact.
On the sub-accounting front we continue to expect conversions to sub-accounting in 2015 will be approximately 4 million to 5 million accounts which is consistent with our fourth quarter of 2014 guidance.
Moving on to our Healthcare Services segment.
Overall trends in Healthcare remained positive and we believe there is significant opportunity within our Healthcare Services segment.
During the first quarter we reported approximately $91.9 million of operating revenues which was essentially flat year-over-year.
As we've previously discussed our Healthcare business had a client which de-converted approximately 40% of their business effective January 01st of this year.
The impact of this client de-conversion was largely offset through organic growth and on-boarding of new clients.
For the first quarter we continued to experience increased medical claim transaction volumes from existing and new clients and higher business process outsourcing revenues.
We also had favorable contributions from increases in discount card services and other ancillary services.
We continue to expand and enhance our service offerings in the Healthcare segment to ensure that we’re able to address the changing needs of our clients including developing solutions that drive better clinical outcomes generate better financial results and help our customers more effectively manage their member populations.
Our Customer Communications segment's operating revenues for the first quarter of 2015 increased 6.3 million as compared to first quarter of 2014 excluding the impacts of foreign currency movements.
A significant driver of this performance was new volumes from previously announced client conversions.
Income in this segment increased $4.8 million year-over-year to $20.5 million.
Demonstrating our continued efforts to enhance the operating model for this segment including the positive impact of the closure of certain North American facilities in the prior year.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by significant year-over-year earnings from IFDS from the result of strong growth from existing and new clients in our existing business and higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of our new wealth management clients in the United Kingdom.
We continuously are evaluating our capital plan to proactively manage our resource needs and determine the most effective and productive use of our assets.
As part of this plan during the first quarter we've continued to monetize the Company's non-operating assets and paid a dividend of $0.30 per share.
Additionally on January 28th our Board authorized a new 250 million share repurchase plan.
During the first quarter we spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 800 000 shares of DST common stock.
We strongly believe in the strength of our business and our prospects for continued growth and success.
We also continue to look for opportunities to expand and enhance our service offering to our clients as well as achieve synergies by expanding our scale and capabilities through strategic acquisitions.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Greg for a detailed discussion of our first quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $107.8 million or $2.87 per diluted share an increase from the $100.4 million or $2.37 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
This increase in earnings per share is attributable to a combination of improved operating results gains from monetizing non-operating assets and the impact of share repurchases.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.40 an increase of 25% from $1.12 of earnings per share in the first quarter of 2014.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter decreased 1.9% or $9.5 million year-over-year to $495.7 million.
As you are aware we sold our Global Solutions business during the fourth quarter 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions’ first quarter 2014 operating revenues consolidated operating revenues increased by $5.4 million year-over-year which was driven by higher revenues in our Financial Services and Customer Communications segments.
Consolidated operating income increased by 4.7% to $76.1 million primarily due to higher operating revenues which are partially offset by higher operating cost incurred to support the new business as well as investments in new business initiatives.
Consolidated operating margins were 15.4% in the quarter which is an increase over the 14.4% in first quarter of 2014.
Before we review the segment results I want to remind everyone that our prior period results have been recast to be consistent with the new segment presentation that Steve discussed earlier.
At a high level the changes to last year's full year 2014 segment presentation resulted in a $63.3 million increase in operating revenues and $11.7 million increase in operating income within the Financial Services segment.
The Financial Services segment increases were then offset by a $34.3 million decrease in operating revenues and a $7.5 million decrease in operating income within the Customer Communications segment with the remaining reductions impacting the investments in other segment and segment eliminations.
Now let's review the segment results.
Within the Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $5.2 million or 1.9%.
This was driven primarily by the sale of Global Solutions which had $14.9 million of operating revenues in first quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions’ 2014 results operating revenues increased by $9.7 million or 3.8% in the first quarter of 2015.
Primarily driven by growth in ALPS proprietary funds revenue and higher software license revenue of $1.6 million.
We also had higher Brokerage and Retirement services revenue which was partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing revenue and the negative impact from foreign currency movements.
Financial Services’ income from operations increased $2.2 million or 4.9% over the prior year quarter to $47 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to higher operating revenues partially offset by the additional cost incurred to support the increased revenue.
We also had increased technology security and regulatory compliance cost for enhancing our network infrastructure as well as higher cost associated with new business initiatives as we expand our Bluedoor wealth management platform into the UK market and make investments to further develop the ALPS Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings.
The Financial Services segment operating margin was 17.6% in the quarter which is an increase from the 16.5% operating margin in the first quarter of 2014.
Our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues were $91.9 million which is in line with the prior year revenues.
Operating revenues benefited from organic growth at existing clients and the on-boarding of new clients.
Increased medical claims transaction volumes along with higher business process outsourcing revenues coupled with increases in discount card services and other ancillary services also contributed to the revenue growth.
The operating revenue growth for the quarter was then largely offset by lower pharmacy claims processing revenues due to the partial client de-conversion that we have previously discussed.
Healthcare Services’ income from operations decreased by $2.8 million to $8.9 million during the first quarter primarily due to a change in mix of revenues year-over-year.
A large percentage of our revenue growth in 2015 has come from business process outsourcing services which tend to have a higher level of support cost.
Additionally income from operations was impacted by increased staffing cost incurred to expand client service offerings.
Operating margin for first quarter 2015 was 9.7% as compared to 12.7% in first quarter of 2014.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $1.2 million to $160.1 million.
In North America operating revenues increased $9.3 million primarily from new volumes as we continue to convert business from the previously announced new clients.
These increases were negatively impacted by $1.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements in our Canadian operations.
UK operating revenues decreased $8.1 million.
Foreign currency movements negatively impacted our UK operating revenues by $3.8 million in the quarter while the remaining decline is primarily the result of lower volumes from existing customers.
Overall Customer Communications’ operating income was $20.5 million an increase of 4.8 million from the same quarter last year.
The increase reflects higher operating revenues in North America partially offset by higher cost to support the growth of revenue a decrease in UK operating income as a result of lower revenues and the negative impact of foreign currency movements on our Canadian and UK operations.
Customer Communications segment operating margins increased from 9.9% in 2014 to 12.8% in first quarter 2015.
The first quarter operating margin for North America was 17.8% which was an increase over the 13% we had in 2014.
While in the UK our operating margin was a negative 1.7% in 2015 as compared to a 3% operating margin during the prior year quarter.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates increased by $5.9 million to $11.3 million in the first quarter of 2015.
This was primarily driven by IFDS’ earnings of $7.3 million which increased by 5.2 million over the first quarter of 2014.
The IFDS increase was primarily from higher processing revenues due to organic growth and new client volumes.
IFDS also had higher revenues recognized related to ongoing conversion activities of the new wealth management clients in the UK.
Moving forward earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress related to the conversions and therefore may not be consistent period-to-period throughout the implementation and conversion process.
Our income tax rate for the first quarter was 36.4% which is a slight decrease compared to the 36.8% rate in the first quarter of 2014 and is in line with our full year estimate of 36%.
During the quarter we received $102.9 million of pre-tax cash proceeds from monetization activities resulting from the sale of $82.2 million of marketable securities at which the majority was State Street stocks.
We also had $16.8 million from private equity investment distributions and $3.9 million from the sale of wholly-owned real estate assets.
In addition to the previously discussed monetization our real estate joint ventures received $22 million from the sale of real estate assets during the first quarter of 2015 $11 million of which is our 50% share.
Turning to our share count during the quarter the Company spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 800 000 shares of DST common stock.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 37.6 million shares a decrease of 11.3% from the first quarter of 2014.
At March 31 we had $225 million remaining under the DST's share repurchase plan.
We closed the first quarter with $111.7 million of cash and $512.5 million of debt.
We’re confident in our balance sheet position which will continue to provide flexibility to pursue a range of growth opportunities while maintaining a strong leverage ratio.
Before I conclude I’d like to spend a little time covering our recently announced acquisition of Red Rocks Capital LLC that is projected to close in the third quarter of this year.
We have agreed to acquire Red Rocks for a purchase price of up to $65 million consisting of a combination of $45 million in upfront cash consideration and $20 million of performance-related contingent consideration.
The transaction will be funded using the combination of cash and short-term borrowings.
We expect the transaction to result in $0.08 to $0.10 of dilution to earnings per share for the 12 months following the acquisition and to be slightly accretive to earnings per share thereafter.
The dilution following the acquisition is principally driven by the expense recognition associated with the $20 million of estimated future performance related payments which are subject to both performance and continued employment.
We’re confident that this transaction structure will provide alignment in performance goals and overall value creation.
I’ll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to discussion a couple of key global trends that are driving our business.
The aging population continues to be a key driver of both our Financial Services and Healthcare businesses particularly in the U.S.
the phenomenon of the Baby Boom generation reaching retirement age provides a solid underpinning for our health and wealth focus.
Big data in the area of Applied Analytics continue to grow.
Given our position in managing and processing data on behalf of our clients we feel we’re well-positioned to provide tools and expertise as our clients seek to run more efficient businesses and engage more deeply with their end-customers.
We have been investing heavily through our balance sheet in the areas of security audit regulatory compliance and risk management.
This investment is ongoing and we view it as mission-critical in order to protect the integrity and security of the data on our systems as well as maintain full regulatory compliance.
And finally I want to underscore our continued confidence in the power and potential of each of our operating platforms.
We have steadily executed on our strategy and we believe we continue to be in the early innings of our execution.
We expect the best is yet to come as we continue to support organic growth and manage costs make prudent acquisitions to strengthen our client relationships and support a diversified portfolio of assets and solutions.
We believe that our continued performance underscores our operating strength and the success of our strategic evolution over the past several years.
I look forward to updating you as we move forward.
And at this point I want to go ahead and open the call for questions operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Hi this is Michael Landau in for David Togut.
For the quarter it looks like you were able to retain two-thirds of subaccount conversions better than the historical 25% conversion rate.
What drove this win rate and is this more indicative of win rates moving forward? Yes so Mike it's a good observation and a good question.
We don’t actually control where the subaccounts land.
So broker-dealers go out and select somebody to do their sub-accounting and a number of broker-dealers have selected DST to do that.
As those broker-dealers convert assets whether it's from a DST platform or anybody else's platform they would end up on our sub-accounting platform.
Now historically we've said that we expect that 20% to 25% of sub-accounting de-conversions would end up on the DST platform.
To your point this quarter it was about 67% ended up on the DST platform.
I think that will normalize out our projections Mike would suggest that we’re going to be a little bit higher than that historical 20% to 25% for the year.
But I don't think we should expect that two-thirds of all sub-accounting conversions will end up on the DST platform.
And were there any tax advantage accounts that converted to sub-accounting this quarter and just what are your expectations for the number of tax advantage accounts that could convert through 2015? Yes Mike I mean the numbers for the quarter were not very big in total and so I am sure there were some tax advantage accounts I don’t have that number right on the top of my head but again given the total volume it would be what I consider to be a relatively de minimis number.
The sub-accounting of tax advantage accounts I'd tell you story hasn't changed over what we've been talking about for the last couple of years.
There are some 529 accounts that are being sub-accounted and in some movement of IRA accounts but we've not seen a big movement there.
And then just switching over to Healthcare do you expect further Healthcare staffing cost in 2015 or is the build-out to support business process outsourcing services kind of complete after this quarter? No.
I expect we're going to continue to build out Mike.
So look we continue to make investments in expanding our clinical network and analytic capabilities right and all focused on being able to provide our customers and prospective customers the ability to manage outcomes for their members.
We're deploying solutions that are driving better clinical outcomes better financial results and that are helping our customers more effectively manage their member population.
And so that's a combination of both technology build-out and people build-out.
And again we've done a lot of it over the last 24 to 30 months and we're not quite done there.
And quite honestly the Healthcare business is a big focus area for us and so we're investing there and again I think we're starting to see the results.
I mean I'll be honest I was very pleased that in that business they largely overcame the loss of the significant customer from a revenue perspective and again I think that's largely due to the investments that we've made to expand our capabilities.
And then just real quick last just wondering if you expect to see any impact from Rite Aid's acquisition of EnvisionRx for Argus? Well I think it's an interesting opportunity.
I mean here's what I would tell you I think anytime there is disruption in the marketplace it creates opportunities for established players like Argus okay.
And again we're continuing to build-out to support not only our existing customers but prospective customers.
And so we thought it was an interesting transaction.
We'll obviously watch it closely but again we think that anytime there is disruption in the marketplace people that are established and committed generally tend to have opportunities come out of that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Band of America.
So 40% of the large client loss conversions happened in first quarter.
Sort of expecting not a lot of movement over the next couple of quarters or should we expect further declines in the second third and fourth quarters? Yes so David it's a good question.
Here is what I would tell you the large customer that did move the 40% of the business this was their Part D business.
Look they continue to be an important and strategic customer of ours right.
We're servicing all of their commercial business and we're a little bit unclear at this point on the exact schedule.
We have said previously that we expected it would move over the next 18 to 24 months.
And again I would just tell you that they are an important strategic customer of ours and we're doing everything we can to service them as well as we can and to help make them successful in the marketplace.
So I can't give you a lot guidance on what the future de-conversion plan looks like at this point.
And then do you have rough revenue and maybe EBITDA for Red Rocks? The revenue is it’s relatively small so less than $10 million but they have had nice AUM growth a little bit that again this is a technical term lumpy but their AUM growth over the past three years has been in the high-teen low-20 kind of percent.
So again we think it's a good acquisition.
We particularly like the fact that we knew Red Rocks because ALPS actually has an existing relationship with them and they have been a good partner of ours.
So we’re very pleased to be completing this transaction.
And then how is the new client pipeline in sub-accounting are there prospects out there that might look to outsource to you versus keeping their in-house sub-accounting systems? We've been very successful in the mid to smaller sized broker-dealers in being able to convert some of that business.
We are in discussions with a number of people but I would tell you two things.
Number one is the sales process on any decision like this is extremely elongated could be in the form of years.
And then I would tell you that the conversion process is also extremely elongated.
I would tell you somewhere between nine and 24 months to covert a significant book of business.
So we’re very pleased with the sub-accounting business.
We are getting organic growth out of it and again we had the discussion about two-thirds of the accounts coming off of our direct book or actually ending up on our sub-accounting book this quarter.
And we’re actively pursuing a number of opportunities but to try and pinpoint if they will close and when they will close and when we’d see first dollar of revenue I don't think we’re really in a position to give that kind of forward guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
Give me a little bit more clarity on IFDS UK.
The way I understand the milestone recognition is that that’s actually reimbursing you for prior development expense.
Can you clarify am I correct there? If so how much more could you collect? And if I am correct this is three quarters in a row now where we've seen some upside from milestone Red Rock? Anyway to think about it over next two years you might not be able to quantify it by quarter but really this is creating some upside in each of the last three quarters.
I just want to make sure that the consensus going forward is reflecting that this may or may not occur in the future? So let me there is -- you asked specifically about IFDS UK but let me talk to the IFDS segment Pete.
I would tell you there is three things happening there.
One is we've got an existing business right where we do in both Canada the UK Luxembourg Island where we do record keeping transfer agency in U.S.
term for collective funds right or different fund structures around or in those marketplaces.
That business has been very strong we've got a big established base that continues to have some organic growth but we've also been very successful the teams have been in attracting new clients there.
So I would tell you the base is continuing to grow and they are continuing to convert new customers again in a Canadian marketplace in the UK and in the offshore markets.
We then have the big wealth management conversions that we've talked about.
And there is really two components to that.
One is the ongoing running of the business.
And so we have converted certain parts of that business on to our platform and with that we’re getting consistent servicing revenues that you would expect us that you know us for right that we get in virtually all of our businesses.
And so again with the two big customers that we’re converting we've converted some of their business and that’s turned into kind of an ongoing revenue stream and we continue to move accounts over.
And so that piece of the business is also growing.
The third piece which is the piece that you've touched on and we've talked about in the past is this development of the platform and you're correct we're spending money today.
We have people working in Australia and India in the UK to develop these platforms.
And then as Gregg talked about based on kind of project completion which is us completing and building some software delivering it to the customer and then accepting it.
We then have revenue recognition that comes through.
And this is why we said that we expect the earnings to be somewhat inconsistent.
And so it's hard for us to give you an exact kind of bogie but what I would tell you is first quarter was very strong and was consistent with both third quarter and fourth quarter of last year.
And Pete if I had to think about it based on what I know today and I would just caution that this could change based on again delivery and acceptance of big pieces of the system in code.
I think that the first quarter number should be a pretty good proxy for the rest of the year.
Now it may not -- the next three quarters may not lay right on top of that number but I think on an annualized basis I am pretty confident that first quarter is a pretty good proxy.
And then just one maintenance question Gregg shares outstanding at the end of the quarter not the way you would average which is the end of the period.
Can you give me that number? Pete it’s 37 million shares were outstanding at March 31 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Robert W.
Baird.
And I guess kind of piggybacking a little on what Pete was asking about I guess if we combine both IFDS and BFDS last year the EBITDA margin was like 9% which to us looks a lot like kind of low margin people based kind of business and a lot different than the margins I think you're getting a 20% plus usually from your core financial business.
I am just wondering right now there is a lot of turbulence with all the cost being built-out and rapid client ramps and stuff.
I mean is this like a 20% EBITDA margin type business overtime and how fast can revenue grow the next couple of years as well? Yes so I would tell you that I don't see it as a 20% kind of margin business and here’s why? The joint venture revenue so IFDS and BFDS the predominant revenue there is BPO okay.
So particularly if you think about Boston Financial all they do is BPO they run DST I don't mean all but they run DST Technology and they do out full service outsourcing.
So the revenues in that business are much lower than a pure technology business.
That's also true in Canada and in the UK and so if you think about what we do in those businesses it is heavily people-oriented and we have lower margin expectations because of that.
So we would not expect that we could run that business at the same kinds of margins that we run DST.
I think you heard Gregg also comment our margins in our Healthcare sector were somewhat pressured this quarter due to a number of factors but one of which was mix of product right.
And one of the things that's happening in our Healthcare business is customers are asking us to outsource more of the transaction processing and hands-on kind of work that we do for them.
And just to be clear Dave right one of the goals that we have is providing our customers the opportunity to engage with us on a technology platform and a SaaS basis all the way through full service outsourcing because we think that gives them a runway to figure out how they want to manage their business.
And quite honestly I think a lot of our customers are looking at the term that I hear our customers using is variablizing their cost right.
And by outsourcing more to us they're able to variablize more of their costs and really put their onus on us to manage increases or decreases in volumes.
So it's a longwinded answer to no I don’t think this is the joint ventures is a 20% margin business but I think they are in a fundamentally different business than DST is.
Now this is still it seems like a good growth business right now right.
I mean I know last year revenue growth combined was really strong and I would imagine you expect revenue growth to continue to be strong and margins at least to trend higher.
Is that fair to say? That is fair to say.
And you are right it has been a nice growth business for us.
Last year for the first time I'll look at my guys here but they crossed over $1 billion in revenue which is a great accomplishment for the joint ventures and the people that work there.
And quite honestly we like the trend.
And then I guess secondly Kasina I know you have closed I think you said in January and I know it's small revenue like 1 million or 2 million of revenue like how much maybe can you give us for Q1? Yes it was small.
I mean here is the play around Kasina right.
We have a number of tools that we deliver to our asset management customers around distribution support.
And Kasina had a great kind of consulting business and advisory business too our asset management clients and particularly the distribution side of the house.
And one of the things that we've found immediately is we’re engaging with the distribution side of our asset management clients in a much different way since Kasina came on.
And we think there is additional tools that we can build-out and capital that we can deploy to building solutions that will allow us deliver even more value to that part of our customers so.
In the first quarter the number revenue attributable directly to Kasina sub-$1 million but again that’s not really the story right? The story is really around the access and the position that Kasina has with the distribution side of our customers.
And just finally what was revenue growth if you would exclude the large client de-conversion was it still like in the double-digits in Q1? I don't have that number.
We haven't also provided it because you have been backwarding to get into the -- what the revenues are in this.
Yes again I think the revenue growth you are talking about on our Healthcare business? Yes.
Yes the revenue growth in our Healthcare business would not be double-digits in the first quarter.
It was flat but we think -- can we give it to him? No.
Yes so that’s not a number Dave that we've gone through and looked at.
But it was still good how is that? It was good because again as I said to overcome that loss of volume and remain flat year-over-year I think the teams did a good job of providing more services to existing customers and generating new revenue from new customers.
Well nice job getting your stock to go higher.
It's been great lately.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Ryan Davis with Credit Suisse.
Just real quick question around the capital structure and kind of thoughts around it I know you guys are on-record saying you are comfortable going to about 2 times EBITDA.
With the AR Securitization coming due here in May I know you guys planned to renew that.
Plus I think the Term A notes maybe 40 million also maturing in 2015 can you give us some thoughts around the plan there maybe stepping up the leverage and especially I guess with the monetization of assets coming dwindling down I don't know how many maybe five-six quarters left.
Just touch around the capital structure moving forward? Yes Ryan this is Gregg Givens.
Just a couple of comments on the capital structure you are right long-term Steve and I have been on the record saying that we’d be comfortable having leverage in the 2 to 2.25 space to run the Company.
We are clearly quite a bit less than that right now.
We are approximately 1x leverage on the balance sheet right now.
We look at this as an opportunity in terms of flexibility that our balance sheet gives us in looking at our capital plan of investing in the business to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and then finally the opportunistic acquisitions.
And so that's the way we look at it we do have a few debt payments coming up in the course of this year but I don't see that movement changing the profile of our overall debt on our balance sheet.
And I mean I guess just to support the repurchase activity as we're kind of staring down may be the last five quarters of this 100 million monetization per quarter.
Is it potential debt raise could it coincide with that or I mean what are the thoughts around timing? Well we continue to analyze the capital plan and the timing of those kind of things we haven't given forward guidance on that.
The other thing I just shared with you is that you're focusing on the monetization activity that we're going through right now for non-operating assets.
But keep in mind that the base operating business flows off a little over 200 million free cash flow per year as well.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Good.
Well thank you very much for joining us I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter and the momentum we have going forward and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.