Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O’Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
First just wanted to follow up on sort of the various initiatives to broaden your distribution reach it seems like you continue to add people and infrastructure so just wondering where you are in that process particularly as it relates to related expenses? Just thinking about if we should expect to see an incremental step-up in costs as you kind of work your way through the year? Well so I mentioned it we had about four lined up in the field and a couple internal sales and you can see that yes that’s going to cost money.
We continue to look to add others there we see as I mentioned two being added for the Canadian marketplace one of which is already added one of which we’re looking for another one we’re looking for the RJ Delta deal that’s another human.
We’re still interviewing for an open [rep] (ph) in the Mideast so that could be another one.
That’s what you’re looking at.
They are not like 10s and 20s that are coming on they are 1zs 2zs 3zs and 4zs that I’ve articulated.
Michael one other thing that probably will go up is the bonus expense related to the sales group as they produce first sales and net sales we’re going to have to continue to -- we’re going to have to uptake there an expense.
And then Tom maybe just to follow up on that front any color on sort of the comp line going forward particularly sort of given the moving parts first quarter to second quarter? Yes.
So I went through the changes from last quarter and from year ago’s quarter so I won’t repeat that but if you knock out the 401(k) and the payroll taxes the number might be around $70 million for the quarter.
Now I have to caveat that with what’s going to happen with sales bonus and what’s going to happen with investment management bonus because when the performance continues stellar as Chris has gone through more bonuses are earned and we’ve got to look that expect figure that out on a yearly basis where it’s going to be and then you run it through each quarter.
And then finally maybe just a follow-up on the M&amp;A discussion Chris just curious to get your current take on sort of the build versus buy decision when you are contemplating adding investment management capabilities it seems like scale is becoming increasingly important as well as the first-mover advantages so just curious if that has maybe tipped the scales in favor of acquisitions a bit more these days? Well it depends on which mandates and which country and -- for example if you are talking about our efforts on liquid Alts this is an effort where we are building it from within despite those factors that you just mentioned.
We hired this fellow Michael Dieschbourg early in the year out of Smith Barney.
We have a gang of eight funds that more or less count as liquid Alt-type funds.
They’ve got $2 billion in them already but there is a lot of science going into them in order to more carefully analyze the risk profiles and how these products are handled and they have delicious names like Absolute Return Pru Bear Managed Wall Managed Risk Managed Tail Risk Unconstrained Bond Global Allocation things like that.
So here is one where we are using a combination of our internal resources bringing in external resources and building it.
In other areas though you are right that it is very tough to build especially in a foreign jurisdiction and so we’re running into that as well.
But it really does depend on where you are and what the opportunities are in that jurisdiction.
firstly kind of getting back to the overseas initiatives again that you discussed just was curious whether it’s RJ Delta distribution agreements or adding sales in Canada or kind of the increased interest you’re seeing in London or maybe kind of the build-out in Australia that you’ve mentioned previously is there one kind of non-US region that you feel particularly confident in or expect to kind of grow your asset base more so than any of those others? Is there kind of one that comes to mind? Well on a percentage basis the Canadian one is looking very attractive.
We have a good gang of assets it’s a low amount.
So it’s $400 million $500 million growing pretty strongly so we’re going to get good percentage increases there.
So that would be one.
It isn’t going to exactly move the Dow instantaneously but overall I’ll give you some other color on that too but just let me say that you see what these various stories different aspects of how we are trying to build things internationally the Canadian the South American the Frankfurt office some of the efforts in London the interviewing Mideast candidates those are all trying to setup individual sales efforts with individual sales personnel to distribute Federated mandates.
That’s one deal.
Then we have in Germany a joint venture with the LVM insurance company well that’s another kind of a deal that works well.
And as we’ve discussed in Australia it’s kind of a put your own team together and then build or buy and hunt around and that’s the one that takes a long time in order to try and reach some fruition.
With Prime Rate it was a simple straight up acquisition.
So there are four different methodologies.
Now back to your question in terms of where we expect things to happen one of the efforts that we have I’ve mentioned it on the last call in pretty good detail was the trade finance in London and we’re hiring more people right now for that and we think this is a growing multi-billion dollar asset class inside Federated.
But it isn’t tied to any one particular jurisdiction.
The mandates will be surfaced nationally and internationally as will the underlying security so it’s not exactly a jurisdictionally-specific thing other than it is headquartered and run out of our London office.
And then just kind of shifting back toward the firm-wide blended fee rate for the quarter specifically I guess relative on a year-over-year basis just to account for the shorter day count so that came down a bit and I know fee waivers obviously played a bit of a part in that as well would you be able to just kind of provide a little bit of color on the underlying fee rates for maybe just equity versus fixed on a kind of trailing year-over-year basis and what may have driven either or both of those rates down? Sure Andrew.
I think that’s pretty well figured though it was largely due to the waivers on the money fund side.
On the equity side our fee rates from all sources really didn’t change much.
It went from about 82 to 81 and that would include advisory fees administrative service fee and then distribution fee.
And on bonds it went from 39 to 38.
Money funds went from about 12 to just under 11.
Maybe just a question on the fee waivers a little bit it looked like the repo rates came up in the quarter but it didn’t have that much impact so and I see you are assuming that they’ll be a little bit higher this quarter.
So at what point was something else offsetting that should we be watching more than just that rate at what point would that really begin to have an impact? Well the repo rates came up slightly I would say and weighted more to the second half of the quarter when the Fed effectively put the five basis point floor under it and so there really wasn’t much opportunity there for improvement.
Looking at this quarter and that’s as you pointed out we mentioned more like in the 5 to 6 range that’s where it’s been for the first couple of weeks in April and that -- you see that in our waiver forecast that the number would go down based on those conditions.
Debbie do you want to add anything to that or not? Well I would just confirm that we started out the quarter with the Fed reverse repo facility at a 3 basis point level.
We ended the quarter at 5.
We started the second quarter with that 5 basis point Fed reverse repo facility rate and our expectation is that post the April time period it may go down another basis point or two just depending upon what the ultimate supply is and what the need from a Treasury perspective becomes at that point.
The Fed reverse repo facility has absolutely served as a floor and certainly as you all know we do not transact specifically with just the Fed we continue to maintain our relationships with the traditional broker-dealers and banks in that repo marketplace.
Again they still are affected very much from a collateral supply demand aspect of the business and so you know (indiscernible) may still end up being -- even though there is a 5 basis points of sharing in the quarter you may still end up seeing some of our relationships and our need to transact especially for our rated A funds at levels that are slightly below in 4 basis point range.
Having said that it really does seem like at this point steady as you go is the likely end result.
And in terms of the outflows from money markets in 1Q it looked a little more severe for you guys particularly in Prime than for some others in the industry can you talk a -- give a little color on what would cause share shifts and how much of the outflows you think were seasonal as opposed to something else going on? Thanks.
It’s very difficult to be precise on how much of it is seasonal but obviously the numbers when you look in the industry pretty consistent $16 billion outflows in January and February and then going up to $50 billion in March and then you have additional acceleration around right up to and through tax.
So those patterns outflows in the first quarter and clustered around tax rates that’s something we’ve seen in the past.
As to specifically to prime that tends to be where we see clients using cash we talked on other calls about -- from the broad competitive landscape there’s still been a lot of money that’s gone into deposit products and there has been activity with competitors but beyond the general factors it’s hard for us to give you a specific attribution on it.
I can say from the standpoint of what we’re looking at as part of our portfolio management process we’re not seeing and I’m not sure Cynthia if you’re asking this as sort of the underlying question but we’re not seeing the trend at this point of movement out of one asset category i.e.
prime the more risky category into another asset category i.e.
government the less risky strategy.
That movement in anything related to it from a regulatory front from a credit front is not something that we have noted or heard clients talking about during the quarter.
And I guess last question is the buyback as you guys sometimes say is polite.
What would get you to really step up more? Well they have to put me in charge of it and take Ray and Tom out of being in charge of it.
So I’ll let them answer that.
We try to run our models and look at the growth prospects for the company and run actual returns on it.
And so forecast would have to improve for that.
And what’s going on with rates what’s going on with the regulatory front and how are the growth prospects coming in with a great equity performance and fixed income performance and the sales.
So that’s really what it would take for us to generate.
And Cynthia I would just add it in the context of total returns to shareholders the dividend levels have been robust payout ratios and so we feel like we’re doing a good job in terms of return to shareholders from all sources.
First just maybe three on money market fund share; what share is too low how would you go about stabilizing market share if you so chose and how much would it cost? What share is too low? Any share lower than where you are is worse than increasing it to a certain extent.
So there is no number that’s really too low in that sense.
And the share number is something that burps out after the fact and that gets into the second level of question as well what would it take to increase share and the cost of doing that.
And this is a calculation and an effort that we don’t do.
Others have done it and we’ve seen it over the 40 years in this business where others come in and say well If I only charge X basis points and do this I can buy this much money.
And we’re not in that business because our clients are in it because they are in it because of a cash management system.
And therefore we’re not looking to buy in people for a basis point two or in the old days five or more and so we don’t really attend to those kinds of calculations.
And over time this has proven out very well for us because over the four decades as you looked at all the cycles we always came out with higher highs and higher lows even that would be changes month-to-month or quarter to quarter on both the total assets and on the total percent of share.
One other point I would mention is that the money supply continues to tick up and so therefore there continues to be a little bit more money in the system each time that you move around.
So the overall macro situation not commenting on regulation but on -- in terms of money just available to be in for money funds still remains rather attractive but the game you’re talking about is one we just traditionally haven’t done and wouldn’t really choose to do.
And then I don’t know maybe for Ray the fee compression on the money fund side so in a year from 12 to just under 11 it’s just a basis point but it’s a big percentage can you just kind of walk us through where that compression what is the reason for the compression on the money fund side? I assume it’s mix but it would be helpful to have you walk us through it? Yes Ken it’s a gradual step I’m giving you those are on a net basis and so it really would have been driven by the waivers related to the yield environment.
It’s not a question of changing pricing or anything like that it’s essentially subject to the market conditions of the past year.
Okay.
Then I’ll ask the question differently.
So average assets were up sequentially in all of your asset classes in 4Q revenue was down even when accounting for the fee waivers and the two fewer days.
So what’s driving the fee compression? So obviously we can see the fee waivers we can calculate the two fewer days but even accounting for that it’s still down and I thought it was on the money fund side but what is it is it possible to kind of point us in the right direction? The next thing would be the blend of assets within the products and so if you look at the equity for example if you look at sequential quarter the basis points actually ticked up a couple of tenths of a basis point.
On fixed income they ticked down a couple of tenths of a basis point and the same thing and money markets.
Now you get into the mix of 150 funds and which funds had asset gains and which funds had -- went the other way and so I think that kind of a blend analysis would probably be beyond the scope of the call especially given those modest differences that we’re looking at here.
Okay.
I’ll try [to call back] (ph).
If you’re offline we can walk through some of the pluses and minuses.
A question on the money fund’s reduction in assets as a follow-up to an earlier question.
Acknowledging that there are going to be March quarter cash needs for taxes for corporations to pay payroll taxes make matches in 401(k) and other cash needs and short seasonal needs are you acknowledging or are you saying that it’s really not the case that this year’s reduction was unusually high? I’m just trying to get a yes or no answer as to whether this year’s outflows were -- this year’s reduction in money funds was unusually high more than one would have expected given the seasonality.
I think March probably was a bit higher.
I think April was in line with past seasonality both for us and the industry.
Are you attaching any significance to it or at this point to the higher-than-expected outflows in March or really --? Not so much I mean we’re aware of specific client situations where one in particular was a multi-billion dollar use of cash has anything to do with any of the things that we’re talking about so that’s part of cash management on a scale that we do it where you would have billions come in and then the money gets used for other purpose.
My second and final question relates to the money fund reform I think one of the things that Chris said in his prepared remarks or in his comments is that he is hopeful that good policy will open the day here and prevail.
My question which individuals or groups at this point are most vocal about the desirability of a floating NAV and why are you confident that it won’t be the outcome? Well the groups that are most attentive to the floating NAV are those basically who want to end the money market fund and that has been their heritage.
So they are very very few.
If you look at the comments of the 1 400 comments high 90-percentage were against the floating NAV.
So there are very very few people who are articulating for the floating NAV but they are a powerful and notable minority.
There are some in the media who are propounding for as well and some in the industry who see the beauty of floating the other guy’s NAV as the solution to the problem.
But as to what my confidence level is and to what the SEC will do I think I use the word what they should do.
I don’t know what they are going to do and it’s hard for me to characterize the level of confidence in what the SEC will do they should not do it and I would expect that they would allow good policy to win out here again and the biggest vote going on really I’ve talked about the comments I’ve talked about the way this business works but the biggest comment really is that you have $2.7 trillion worth of voters in the marketplace deciding that these funds are the way they want to manage their cash.
And that’s despite the fact that alongside of them they could buy and roll US government securities they could invest into big-to-fail banks and they could invest in our or others’ ultra-short funds with very modest fluctuations in the NAV and yet tens if not scores of basis points more in return.
And the reason is because of the efficiency and beauty of the money market fund product.
So it’s hard to say what exactly they are going to do or when they are going to do it but I don’t think that there is a good case been made for floating the NAV on these funds.
With that we’ll conclude our call and we thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!