Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
On the ’15 outlook what is your plan for domestic versus international tactical radio growth if you are willing to share that? At RF overall it's flat to down 3 and we see tactical down low single-digits.
We see the international side up low single digits and on the DoD side down low double digits so read that 10% - 12% in that range.
So that’s a complete -- I mean PSPC is about flat just sort of complete the circle on the RF Com segment.
And then just on the international front you upped -- you did some commentary certainly already and you upped your pipeline and you said I think it was early stage opportunities.
I was wondering if maybe you could help us think through that 2.5 billion from a timing standpoint are there near term bulky or good size orders out there that you think you can pull in before the end of the calendar year and then maybe a little more color on what the early stage opportunities look like? Yes the pipeline came up a little bit and it was as I did mention some earlier stage opportunities but we still feel very confident about the size of the pipeline.
As I mentioned coming off the year where we booked a lot of good orders and grew our business by 25% which I think is astounding to see the pipeline replenish itself and actually grow a little bit.
I think it's very very significant to us.
We see about 750 million of that 2.5 billion that are in the proposal closure finalization stage so the probability is very high.
The timing Joe as you know is always a bit difficult to predict.
The shape of the pipeline looks pretty much in-line with what I mentioned last time it's slightly more than half the Middle-East and Central Asia where we know that our number of security concerns you can pick up a paper and read about that quite a bit and U.S.
is pulling back.
Iraq is significant I mentioned that last time and it remains a significant component of our pipeline today.
It's both the Ministry of Interior as well as the Ministry of Defense we booked an order very recently in Q4 it's little small but I think it was significant.
It has gotten through the vast majority of the licensing from the U.S.
government.
So it feels very very good.
We see opportunities in the country in Northern Africa that remained very robust it's a Phase IV of what has been a long term multi-phased program for us where we have actually if constructed in-country assembly facility so we know we have got a lot of staying power with that particular country and then within the Middle-East the UAE looked strong Jordon looked strong Oman is strong Saudi has gotten a little bit bigger over the last couple of months to quarter and we feel fairly good about those opportunities.
The balance the other half or little less than half are just as we have mentioned before collision countries it's countries in APAC like Australia Philippines and others and in Latin America Brazil looks pretty good Mexico looks pretty good.
As you know Brazil we were chosen for the early part of the (indiscernible) program we see that accelerating through fiscal ’15.
Long list of other opportunities but in general Joe that is sort of shape of the pipeline.
And then just one more R&amp;D you mentioned I think was 5.3% in terms of IRAD.
What’s your plan for FY ’15? Well when you look back since I came here 2.5 years ago we were about 4% of our revenue being spent in IRAD Internal R&amp;D and now IRAD is 5.3% so it has come up quite a bit in the last 2.5 - 3 years and we tried to point it towards those businesses where we have strong returns and strong growth opportunities based on technology and innovation so we pointed it directly at our tactical business and we have stepped up quite a bit as well in our government communications business.
So it's 5.3% it's a pretty healthy amount of spend.
We believe we’re fully funding the best opportunities.
We’re looking across the company now as a portfolio as opposed to looking at the individual businesses on a (indiscernible) basis.
We have a significant amount of engagement by our Board in R&amp;D since it's such a significant investment and strategic to the company but as I go forward into ’15 we may see a slight tick-up but not to the magnitude we have seen in the last two to three years Joe.
Just quickly on INS.
It looks like with the growing pieces that IT services it looks like it's probably down in the kind of mid-teens range in the guidance for next year is that right? And can you comment at all on what the sort of underlying trends in the business are at NMCI.
Yes let me sort of start and maybe Mick can jump in here a little bit.
Clearly we still are in a relatively constrained government market the procurements are slow there has been a lot of competition on the IT services business and the government side of CapRock.
Some of it's offset with some improvements on commercial CapRock as well as the commercial healthcare business.
As we look out into fiscal ’15 total INS is down 7% - 8%.
We see continued growth on the commercial side of CapRock which we see up high single digits as well as the commercial side of the healthcare business which will be up I guess a small piece up around 20% or so.
And that’s going to be offset by a weak U.S.
government IT services market that will be down high-teens so your mid-teens is in the ball-park with more like high-teens.
In the U.S.
CapRock side of the government side it will also be down a little bit sort of mid to high single digits but that’s coming off a very very weak FY ’14 where our government side of CapRock was down in the mid-20s say 24% - 25%.
I think what’s significant here Carter is that we are seeing two things happening in the IT services businesses one is the roll-off of the NMCI contract Mick mentioned that that’s where the $90 million of revenue and about 40 million of profit roll off between ’14 and ’15 and then the other part is we have decided to not sell in the net sense products IDIQ because it's simply passed through business is coming through a zero gross margin and it is adding nothing to our shareholders.
Those two pieces those two decisions together are a $160 million worth of revenue.
So you pull that out and it would make the hits business to be roughly flat year-over-year outside of those two moving parts and hopefully it gives you a little bit of color within INS and I answered your question but let me if there is anything else you want to know about INS? No that’s exactly it I wanted to get to what the business looked like ex those movements so that color is really helpful.
Just secondly if you could give us a little bit more color on PSPC for next year and the flat guidance there.
I wondered if you might just talk about the environment there bookings trend any challenges on state and local side just anything to help us understand the directionality of that business next year and then beyond and if your views there have changed at all? It hasn’t changed a lot in the last three months since the last quarter the issues we have in PSPC remain two fold one is both the market itself and the market appears to be getting a little bit weaker than where we were just a couple of months ago and there is execution.
I don’t want to pile on the execution issues.
They are going to take a number of quarters to fix.
We have seen some delays in the roll out of some systems due to some customer issues.
I think we’re responding as I mentioned last time we’re adding on the sales and marketing side.
We’re investing in a product offering we’re investing heavily to improve the quality of our software architecture and our product we’re selling into the field all of which I think are positive things it will help us overtime but what I have seen is I really spend a little more time on this business.
There is no silver bullet here.
On the market side it is a bit weaker than where we thought just a few months ago we now see the market to be down maybe flat to down mid-single digits as supposed to being more flattish and what I think is happening here we’re sort of caught between two pieces one is the rebanning that that happened and ended around January ’13 that had a positive effect and maybe pull forward some sales.
And then on the right hand side or the later side is the investments that are coming down the path on LTE and when I think is we’re sort of stuck in the middle we’re winding down from the rebanning and state and local customers are waiting for the uptick on LTE and I think that’s what’s compressing the market that we’re in today.
So I think the state and local finances are a little bit better but we don’t see that reading through right now in opportunities for public safety.
I think when you setup and you look at it longer term we do know that those analog systems that are out there and there is quite a few will shift to digital.
LMR will move to LTE overtime.
I think we’ve taken all the right steps to take out cost to position our product to be successful to upgrade our management team and I know we have got margin expansion opportunity so I think for Harris public safety will be a long term growth story.
It is just going to take a little time for that to figure itself out.
Start with a couple of questions on RF.
I think backlog total between tactical and public safety is down about 15% exciting 2014 relative to 2013 but your guidance for 2015 revenue is pretty close to flat.
So I’m wondering what is it about either the backlog or the pipeline that gives you confidence that the turns business will be better than it typically is in 2015.
Well I think on public safety we’re coming off of a fairly weak 2014 fiscal ’14 and in a market that’s softened down a little bit.
I think we just hold share we will see our business stabilize and we feel reasonably confident that we will see better performance in public safety in fiscal ’15 than ’14.
It may not be up but we’re guided to be about flat right now.
I think on the tactical side look we do know that we’re ending the year with our backlog down a little bit it's about 24% year-over-year it declined sequentially by about 70%.
We anticipated some decline or coming off of a pretty strong Q2 and Q3.
So we thought that was going to end up happening.
Typically what we see in the year is about 60% of our backlog converting to revenue in the subsequent year.
We have some multi-year orders in our backlog today.
Last year we converted about 60% of our backlog and 40% in the year before it was just over that around 61% - 62% so that’s not unusual.
Then we’re also seeing in the 65% to 75% range of new orders converting within the year that’s what we have seen over last couple of years and we expect to see a same trend going into fiscal ’15.
So when you put those two pieces together I think we’re pretty confident about the guidance and the outlook we have for both tactical and public safety.
As we come back and look at just where we’re in the pipeline the DoD pipeline down a little bit sort of the $900 million to $1 billion range so it's holding in there even without any HMS opportunities in there and with the international side remaining relatively healthy at 2.5 billion we do know that some of those opportunities will come to bear in fiscal ’15 and all that taken together is what gives us confidence on the guidance for next year.
And then in your prepared remarks you referenced I think 200 million to 300 million in unspent JTRS funding.
I just want to make sure I understood you correctly is your belief that will be repurposed in order to fill the fielding gap which will potentially be used for your products and if so over what time span do you expect that $200 million to $300 million to be spent? The $200 million to $300 million at the end of GFY ’15 was on the HMS line on the MNVR we think it's sort of $60 million to $65 million in that range so just to distinguish that.
And yes there are the army can buy SRW appliques against that funding and they can buy those appliques to plug some of the fielding gap.
So that is our hope and expectation that some of that will happen over the course of the fiscal year.
So a couple of questions given that JTRS delays that you’ve outlined presumably the overall RF Tactical market opportunity has declined in fiscal ’16 even though I understand your reported pipeline had already excluded a lot of that JTRS opportunity out.
Is that a fair assessment and if in fact the overall market opportunity is going to stretch that a bit.
What do you think that should pertain for pricing even in the international market for tactical product? I think the market itself is going to be flattish in the next couple of years to be honest with you.
I think the international side because we’re a big player on the international front.
I think the international could be up modestly I think we did capture a little bit of share in our fiscal ’14 but it could be up modestly in our fiscal ’15.
The fact that the pipeline that’s over 12 to 18 months sort of hangs in there for U.S.
DoD at the $900 million to a $1 billion range is an indication for the size of the market that happens to be out there in U.S.
DoD.
Just because of the HMS moving out and the funding is not in that pipeline we took that out last time.
So that really doesn’t affect the way we see the marketplace.
There are number of opportunities that we see coming on resets modernization and other parts of the military services more than 60% of our U.S.
DoD pipeline is outside of the U.S.
Army it's the airforce it's SOCOM it's the Marine Corp that are modernizing and standardizing on Harris technology and that still appears reasonably robust.
When you talk about pricing we compete every day on pricing both in the U.S.
DoD and outside of that and in every discussion we have and every contract we sign there is significant pressure on the pricing side.
I think the fact that we bring significant technology to bear you know product that delivers in the field with very very very good quality.
I think it allows the hold on our pricing and our margins in the tactical radio business.
Don’t want to delever [ph] the point but you understand my question is not how you define the market it's how -- it's sort of how all players that the supply products that compete with RF tactical define the market and imagine on a net basis even though your pipeline is flat to up sequentially maybe the rest of the world wouldn’t see it that way and presumably drive some pricing pressure but I guess you just don’t see it that way is that fair? We see pricing pressure in the markets that we happen to be but keep in mind when you’re deep with a particular service in a country those opportunities do tend to come back to you.
We have incumbency in some markets.
So when opportunities arise we tend to be at the front of the line for those kind of opportunities.
We do have difficult pricing conversations with every one of our customers but I don’t see it increasing measurably next year from where we were at this past year on the international side.
And can you remind us of the 260 - 270 of R&amp;D spend that you actually spent how much of that is directed at RF tactical in ’14 and then how are you adjusting that specific spend in RF tactical in fiscal ’15? There is a fair amount of the -- about 260 to 265 you’re very insightful on that number it's in that range on internal R&amp;D is spent at the RF Com business and the largest piece of that is within the tactical business.
I think it's safe to say it's in the $100 million range but I don’t think I want to get much more specific than that it's a substantial amount of money.
As we go into next year there maybe a slight increase in that and may come from other parts of the company as we see good returns and good investment opportunities in tactical radio.
We may see some shift some of the increase that we saw in Q4 comes with adding of people and those people carry into next year so there will be a natural increase next year just because of the annulization of some of the investment we made in Q4 not a 100% of it but some piece of it.
So a very good chunk of our investment is being spent in the tactical business.
I would also say you can see the resilience we have in the GCS business 0 to up 2% next year relatively strong this past year we have stepped up our internal R&amp;D spend at GCS as well and I think that’s paying dividends as well.
Just one last one if you can just comment RF tactical assumptions for your foreign sales mix for fiscal ’15 maybe between systems -- I think you’ve given some flavor on the mix is the mix more beneficial in that side of the business in fiscal ’15 than it was in ’14? Thank you.
Yes we saw at the beginning of last year we talked about this quite a bit because we expected it will provide a little bit of margin pressure that we would see substantial growth in the amount of systems we’re selling into international market.
We expected at that time that the systems business would roughly double year-over-year.
It increased quite a bit it didn’t quite double it was up about 50%.
And we see another increase going into next year of a substantial amount of the orders seemed relative a market magnitude of 40% more or less.
This year this past fiscal ’14 it was around a $180 million to $200 million worth of systems business on the international side and it will go up in the 35% - 40% range next year.
Just want to follow-up on that FGCM Award I know it's IDIQ but can you give us a sense of scale of the opportunity relative to your legacy program just order of magnitude how much big of an opportunity you see this has? It's going to be substantial.
We have done in the range of $30 million to $50 million a year with the NGA and my comments and I will just repeat them here that that business should double over the course of the next year or two.
I think it remains the same Chris so I think that’s sort of shapes and sizes the opportunity at a pretty high level.
And just talking about the HMS program when you look at the upcoming NIEs how well do you feel your positioned in terms of having hardware in the field and the testing environment at any new requirements that have been placed on you? Frankly there has been a whole lot that’s been happening on the -- in that particular area.
We just came off a 14.2 I think our performance on 14.2 was quite good.
We felt very very good about it and I think we’re well positioned in the upcoming NIEs.
I think if you read and I’m sure you’ve Chris a lot of what’s written in the press and memos by very senior people in the military about the performance of Program of Record in other parts.
I think we feel very very well positioned with our HMS offerings both the manpack and the Rifleman.
We talked to you before about the advantages of our own manpack product.
It weighs less it's smaller has all the waveforms doesn’t need all the expensive appliques it boots up quicker all those various things and we feel very very good about that and I think when I look at some of the comments coming out of the military based on 14.2 about weight size battery life heat dissipation.
I feel very good about where our product is going to stack-up based on our long legacy of developing products in this area.
We developed our manpack product with an eye towards keeping the weight low with an eye towards making it heat and thermally efficient.
So we think that that is going to be a performance differentiator for us overtime.
So I feel very good about our product offering both in what we did in 14.2 as well as what’s coming up in fiscal ’15 and I hope that answered your question Chris.
It does and an update on the Rifleman? The Rifleman is very -- we have got a great offering in the Rifleman radio for us it's the U.S.
equivalent to our international soldier radio.
We sold 44 000 of those radios around the world and I like where we stack up there as well.
We have got a product with a longer battery life in excess of 12 hours shorter connect time to network and I think as you might have seen in the demo it has a unique dashboard display at the top providing operational network status.
So battery life remaining numbers of users on the net et cetera it's NSA certified.
So we feel very good about our Rifleman Radio product as well and I think over the last year-and-half you’ve been asking us quite frequently about NSA sort on the manpack and I did mention in my prepared remarks we got that in June.
So both the manpack and the Rifleman are bought NSA certified at this point.
And final question the announcement you had on the hosted payload on Next I think 63 million if I remember your contract with Iridium was for something like 45 million so was there upside to the program in terms of the number or amount of hosted payload activity?  Yes substantially.
It's Aireon is a program.
It's a joint venture between NAV Canada and Iridium and our contract is really with Aireon and it's to put payloads on to this constellation and the total amount of payload I think it's 66 satellites on orbit with -- on orbit spares and on ground spares.
So I think it's total of 81 and there is 81 payloads just for Aireon and on top of that there have been other payloads booked with other customers for that constellation and hopefully that answers your question Chris.
So this is upside on the -- I think it was 15% of the payload that you had reserved for classified customer activity and the upside is on that portion of it.
I would just say that it is upside to what we anticipate it when we signed Aireon in terms of the payloads riding on that constellation.
I think it's all that we can say.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!