Good day and welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's presentation is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2014 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides and the webcast if you so choose.
If you do have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President and Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2014 Q3 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
They are joined by Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and heavy construction materials segment; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the SEC Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website -- Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We enjoyed a positive quarter largely consistent with our expectations realizing revenue operating income and adjusted EBITDA growth.
Key highlights from the quarter include: We had a very strong quarter in heavy construction materials adjusted EBITDA margins expanded to 24.4% the highest margin for a June quarter since 2008.
Our stone product line experienced double-digit topline growth with expanded margins.
Our regional block product line benefited from the strong economy in Texas and also showed topline growth and expanded margins over 2013 as we improved manufacturing and lowered transportation costs.
And our roofing revenue grew at a double-digit rate.
But other siding accessories were impacted by a slow start to the construction season in the Midwest and Northeast.
Turning to Slide 3.
We feel good about our core segment growth of 15% including organic growth of 9% in light building products and 7% in heavy construction materials.
Even with the slowing of new residential construction we have organic growth in a very strong Texas market new product offerings in roofing and stone and growth in fly ash volume and price.
In addition our acquisitions are performing well and some are performing better than expected.
Headwaters' adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 100 basis points and EBITDA grew by 19% in the quarter.
As noted adjusted EBITDA margin in heavy construction materials expanded by 300 basis points but adjusted EBITDA margin in light building products compressed slightly primarily due to sales mix.
We had an increase in lower margin block roofing and trimboard revenue relative to higher-margin siding accessories which impacted our sales mix and resulted in a 100-basis-point decline in adjusted EBITDA margin.
Although the softness in light building products margins was primarily related to sales mix we also experienced some raw material and other cost increases.
Our calculation of adjusted earnings per share is included in the press release and takes into account many of the same adjustments used in our adjusted EBITDA calculation and is presented to share perspective on the ongoing earnings power of the company.
In addition since we are the beneficiaries of multiple acquisitions we have a relatively high level of intangible amortization which is a noncash expense in our GAAP financial presentation but is an adjustment in adjusted earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share grew 32% year-over-year to $0.29 per share in the quarter.
From a balance sheet perspective if our growth trends continue as they have in 2014 taking into account a full year of performance from our acquisitions we could be in our targeted range of 2.5 to 3x net debt to adjusted EBITDA towards the end of 2015.
Actions that could change the trajectory include additional opportunistic acquisitions to fill out our niche product lines or change in trends.
We grew adjusted EBITDA by $7 million or 19% in the quarter and finished the quarter with trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA of $128 million.
Our growth in the fourth quarter should put us well inside our guidance range of $130 million to $145 million.
Turning to Slide 4.
Entegra our concrete roof tile acquisition in Florida performed well during the quarter.
Revenue and EBITDA were up year-over-year double digits but we saw a little softening in June and July sales as we were impacted by rain and by a somewhat slower end market.
Our 2 recent acquisitions stone coated metal roofing and CFB ash are both performing well with no early surprises and we expect synergies from both transactions.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don Newman our Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 5 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Our third quarter of 2014 marked the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth for the company driven by a strong organic growth as well as solid performance from our recent acquisitions.
Revenue from continuing operations for Q3 increased $26.4 million or 13% to $23.4 million from the prior year revenue of $197 million.
The revenue growth in the quarter reflected 7% organic growth and 6% growth from acquisitions.
Our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments combined to generate 8% organic growth in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter increased 19% to $44.9 million from a prior year adjusted EBITDA of $37.6 million.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations is $545.5 million up $57.9 million or 12% from prior year revenue of $487.6 million.
Our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments combined to generate 7% organic growth year-to-date.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $87 million a 15% increase from prior year adjusted EBITDA of $75.4 million.
And adjusted net income from continuing operations increased 42% year-to-date and 32% for the quarter as operating performance improvement reached the bottom line.
Let's move on to Slide 6 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Led by the heavy construction materials segment we saw a number of positive revenue and margin trends in the quarter.
Consolidated revenue from continuing operations increased to $223.4 million a $26.4 million or 13% increase from 2013 despite a decrease in our noncore energy sales.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased 15% including 8% from organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 19% to $140.6 million compared to $118 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products was 9% for the quarter with stone block and our roofing products experiencing the highest year-over-year growth rates.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 7% to $80.6 million compared to $75.1 million in 2013.
Revenue increases reflect fly ash net price increases of approximately 4% as well as volume increases of approximately 7% partially offset by a lower services revenue due to completing contracts.
Our noncore energy group partially offset growth in our core segments.
Sales of HCAT were down $1.7 million year-over-year as current customer outages and on-site inventory levels resulted in lower HCAT orders.
Consolidated gross profit was $67.7 million in the quarter a 16% increase from the prior year gross profit of $58.5 million.
Gross profit in our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased nearly 18% year-over-year.
Gross margins for those core segments expanded more than 80 basis points to nearly 30% or approximately 30%.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating cost of acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs to strategic marketing spend and other nonroutine items as well as compensation costs related to stock price increases and routine wage increases.
Now let's move to Slide 7 and talk about the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date consolidated revenue increased $57.9 million or 12% to $545.5 million from 2013 levels.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased $62 million or 13% year-over-year including 7% from organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 17% to $327.7 million compared to $279.5 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products is 7% year-to-date as growth in the stone block and roofing products more than offset declines in our siding group sales.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 7% to $211.3 million compared to $197.3 million in 2013 reflecting both price and volume increases year-over-year.
Our noncore energy business saw sales decrease $4.2 million year-over-year due to timing of product shipments driven by customer outages and on-site inventory levels.
Year-to-date consolidated gross profit is $147.1 million a 15% increase from the prior year gross profit of $128.2 million.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating costs of acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs as well as to strategic marketing efforts customer development costs related to the energy segment as well as increases in compensation expense.
Now let's move to Slide 8.
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA improved $7.3 million in the quarter and our net debt ratio ticked up modestly due to our acquisition of Metal USA's stone coated roofing product line.
We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position with $114.5 million of cash and an undrawn revolver.
At the close of the quarter approximately $57 million of proceeds remain from our 7.25% note issuance in December of which $7.4 million was used in July to purchase the assets of LA Ash.
Our recent bolt-on acquisitions have performed well and have contributed to revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth.
We financed most of these acquisitions with debt yet we remain focused on reducing our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio to the 2.5 to 3x range.
Based on current trends and our capital structure we currently expect to achieve this objective in late 2015 although additional acquisitions could extend the timing.
Starting on Slide 9 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 9 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the third quarter increase by $23 million to $141 million an increase of 19% over last year.
Revenue increased 9% organically year-over-year.
We saw a revenue growth in the quarter in stone and block but our siding group was flat due to reduced sales in our vinyl siding related products.
During fiscal year 2013 we received the benefit from our end market exposure to new residential construction as non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts grew 19% over fiscal 2012 levels.
In fiscal year 2014 growth has slowed to 4% year-to-date.
The most recent quarter ended June 30 2014 was in line with the trend at 3.5% higher than single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended June 30 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased $3.6 million to $29.6 million.
Margins contracted slightly due to changes in our sales mix raw material and transportation cost increases as well as increased SG&amp;A spend in our stone group to take advantage of market share opportunities.
The sales mix impact on margins resulted from soft sales in our higher-margin accessory products that closely followed vinyl siding sales and revenue growth in trimboard block and roofing.
We also experienced increased cost in raw materials principally polypropylene PVC and cement.
Finally EBITDA margins were impacted by strategic increases in our stone group SG&amp;A spend to support revenue-generating programs aimed at the recovering markets.
These efforts included a variety of additional resources in the field targeting new home construction new consumer and trade advertising efforts coupled with web-based programs to pull sales to our distribution and expanded efforts to support our growing outdoor product lines.
Our stone group did experience revenue growth and overall margin expansion in the quarter.
We also saw increases in raw material and transportation costs.
If these costs continue to increase we will act appropriately.
We may implement price increases in addition to continuing to look for manufacturing efficiencies to maintain margin integrity.
Our architectural stone product group had strong revenue growth in the third quarter.
We are focusing on gaining market share with major homebuilders using our good better best strategy which continues to gain traction.
Much of our increase in marketing spend is focused in our stone group and third quarter sales were positively impacted.
The Eldorado brand had seen significant increases in awareness and customer activity within the remodel and user markets.
The application of our stone products is expanding beyond exterior facades to also include interior applications and outdoor living spaces.
As you know outdoor living is a robust multibillion-dollar market that is expected to grow at a healthy rate in the coming years.
And we are positioning ourselves to participate in that adjacent opportunity.
The siding group had flat sales for the quarter as a decrease in the higher-margin siding accessory sales were offset by increases in roofing and trimboard.
This sales mix hurt margins.
Siding accessories' product sales were negatively impacted by the weather at the start of the quarter but as weather improved we saw sales follow providing year-over-year growth for the month of June.
Despite the progress in the accessory sales late in the quarter we are taking specific actions to improve margins as we finish out 2014 and head into 2015.
Our legacy composite roofing products performed very well in the quarter with over 20% growth year-over-year.
In addition the new roofing product that we introduced this spring had had a very successful rollout and is exceeding expectations.
We are positioned to introduce new roofing products into the market this fall.
Trimboard had another successful quarter as we expand distribution beyond New England.
And we are receiving the second set of orders from new distribution points.
Revenue from our block product group increased due to its exposure to commercial and institutional markets in Texas and Louisiana.
Texas' strong economy should continue to result in the construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been the core of our regional block product group.
We've seen healthy improvements in margins for the quarter and year-to-date due to sales increases manufacturing efficiencies and other cost improvements like reducing trucking expense.
In May we acquired the assets of Metals USA stone coated niche metal roofing product line.
They have strong market share under the Gerard and Allmet brands.
This stone coated niche roofing product complements our concrete and composite-based niche roofing products broadening our product categories as well as our geographic footprint.
Consistent with prior acquisitions we believe stone coated roofing will be accretive to earnings per share and cash flow.
Our other recent acquisitions of Entegra roof tile and Kleer trimboard products continue to perform well.
Revenues for both increased in the quarter.
We continue to look for opportunities that fit our acquisition criteria both strategically and financially.
Turning to Slide 10.
You can see year-to-date revenues for the light building products segment have increased $48 million or 17% 7% of the growth coming organically.
Adjusted EBITDA year-to-date is up $6.6 million or 13% to $56.1 million.
Revenue grew during the quarter making it the 12th straight quarter of revenue growth year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA also increased year-over-year for the quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slides 11 and 12 you can see that revenue for the June 2014 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $80.6 million compared to $75.1 million for the June 2013 quarter resulting in a 7% year-over-year increase.
Despite the abnormal wet weather that was experienced in the Midwest and along parts of the Gulf Coast our tons of high-value fly ash sold were up 7% for the year-over-year for the June 2014 quarter.
During the quarter we also realized a net 4% year-over-year price increase for high-value fly ash.
Headwaters' Plant Services provides site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was down year-over-year for the June quarter due to the completion of service projects and accounted for approximately 22% of our overall revenue for the quarter compared to 25% for the June 2013 quarter.
Site service revenue as a percent of total segment revenue is normally higher in the December and March quarters and lower in the June and September quarters primarily due to seasonality.
Gross profit for the June 2014 quarter increased 15% to $23.6 million compared to $20.5 million for the June 2013 quarter.
Gross margin for the June 2014 quarter increased 200 basis points to 29%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2014 quarter increased 22% to $19.7 million compared to $16.1 million for the June 2013 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 300 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as revenue growth at 7% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 22%.
On a $5.5 million revenue increase adjusted EBITDA grew $3.6 million or 65% somewhat higher than our normal contribution margin because of the price increase impact.
Year-over-year cement shipments for April and May were up and we expect further increases in shipments reported for June.
In addition we continue to see cement prices increase due to tightening supply relative to demand.
The tightening is occurring because of increased demand and because of the new EPA regulations that will lead to retrofits and may lead to the shutdown of some cement kilns.
Also not only could the new EPA regulations restrict supply but the incremental cost associated with the regulations could cause cement production cost to increase by as much as 25%.
The tightening of supply and the EPA-driven increase cost structure is driving cement manufacturers to raise prices.
The upward price momentum should continue to benefit our fly ash sales and allow us to raise prices.
As we mentioned on the last call in a consent decree dated January 29 2014 the EPA agreed by December 19 2014 to sign for publication in the Federal Register a notice taking final action regarding EPA's proposed revision of RCRA Subtitle D regulations pertaining the coal combustion residuals.
In June the EPA proposed CO2 mitigation rules and continued to signal the Subtitle D approach to fly ash disposal through its strategy of aligning Subtitle D disposal modifications with new effluent limitation guidelines.
On July 14 we announced our acquisition of LA Ash Products and Services.
The acquisition of the assets of this CFB ash marketer will immediately strengthen our position to meet customer needs along the Gulf Coast.
We have excess supply of CFB ash and LA Ash's current customer base is demanding more products than it can supply.
We should be able to increase our sales of CFB ash to LA Ash's customer base and further benefit from its sales staff to promote further use of CFB ash.
The September quarter is typically our strongest quarter and the tailwinds we are experiencing should carry over into 2015.
I'll now turn the call back over to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our remaining energy asset consists of a proprietary technology that is used to catalytically upgrade low-quality heavy oil.
For the third quarter of 2014 revenue from continuing operations in our energy segment was $2.2 million compared to $3.9 million in 2013.
Revenue was primarily impacted by the timing of shipments and not for many fundamental change in customer demand.
Adjusted EBITDA was a negative $0.6 million in 2014 compared to a positive $0.3 million in 2013.
We expect to have completed by the end of December all 3 trial periods for our 3 new potential customers.
Refineries are quite slow to make significant changes in their catalyst especially if the catalyst represents a different technology.
We are comfortable that we will continue to add to our existing customer base through the expanding acknowledgment that HCAT adds value to the heavy oil refining process.
Slide 14 summarizes the revenue on adjusted EBITDA quarterly comparison year-over-year.
The timing of HCAT orders may result in approximately $3 million lower adjusted EBITDA for fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 of which $2.3 million has already impacted us through June 30.
Concluding on Slide 15 we believe that our adjusted EBITDA will be within our guidance range for 2014.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was $128 million as of June with a $7 million increase over prior year in the quarter.
Family formation affordability and employment weaknesses have resulted in a softening in the new residential -- in new residential construction.
But Headwaters have a diversified product set end markets and geographic exposure.
More than 20% of our revenue is generated in Texas.
We successfully introduced a number of new products.
And our bolt-on acquisitions have performed particularly well.
So we anticipate another strong quarter to end the year both on the topline and adjusted EBITDA and look forward to substantial growth in 2015.
I'd now like to turn the time back to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And we will first hear from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So this is kind of a question about your guidance and the reaffirmation.
So kind of thinking about the slowness you saw in siding accessories and then now you're expecting a little bit lower EBITDA from the energy technology segment.
So does this imply that we're expecting a pretty robust quarter from heavy construction materials? I guess is that the right way to think about it? Or are you expecting that we're going to see some rebound in siding accessories or concrete block or stone siding to kind of offset the weakness in siding accessories? We anticipate that we're going to have some strength in stone block and in ash.
And that should help to offset some of the softness in the accessories and in the HCAT technology.
If you take $128 million of trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA and add the growth that we had in the June 30 quarter $7 million it gets you to $135 million of adjusted EBITDA for the year which of course is well within our guidance range.
It's a little bit below the midpoint of the range but that's probably -- directionally that's kind of where we will potentially end up for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
So and then another question on kind of just the trends you've seen in July.
And I'm thinking especially in the siding accessories in terms of kind of the big-ticket purchases there have you seen any -- have you seen the June strength kind of continue at all? I think that I was reviewing the July sales this morning before coming into the call.
And our sales orders in our siding accessory group are up year-over-year.
And ultimately those orders translate into sales.
There's of course a little bit of lag from a timing perspective.
But ultimately they do they convert into sales as the orders are shipped.
So within that there's still a little bit of a sales mix going on.
We had stronger growth in the roofing on our composite roofing legacy products.
But it's still growing at a faster rate than our shutters mounting blocks vents and tools.
Those are the higher-margin products.
There was overall growth in those products in sales orders.
But not as -- but the growth is more rapid in the roofing part of the business.
So we -- I think that the order trend between June and going into July is relatively consistent.
Dave why don't you add a little bit of color to that response? Well I agree.
They are up year-over-year.
It's -- they -- we're seeing some slight improvement.
We'd always like to see certainly would like to see a little more but we're -- what we're seeing is slight improvement in those building products categories.
The trim products and the roofing products are far exceeding the growth curve of the others and we expect to continue to see not huge jumps in the market but to see for the rest of the fiscal year for that trend to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
One last question was just in -- for the heavy construction materials business.
I think we heard some other cement guys talk about some rail congestion in the quarter.
Did you guys have any issues with that to impact your results this quarter? Bill why don't you go ahead and respond? Yes I think Rob we're seeing similar issues with rail traffic.
We're spending a lot of time with the railroads.
We're actually working hand-in-hand with some of the cement companies trying to address these issues.
But yes we've seen similar rail congestion as activity picks up throughout the system.
One of the very positive -- I was going to add just that one of the very positive things that Bill has done over the last couple of years is increase the efficiency of our railcar utilization.
It's actually -- it amounts to a very dramatic decrease in the number of railcars that we have to use as we have optimized our utilization.
So that's offset some of the inefficiencies of the rail system in the United States.
And if the world were perfect you probably wouldn't use the rail system at all.
But of course we have to.
But the improved efficiencies have offset some of the issues related to the rail system.
Sorry I interrupted.
You were going to follow up with another question there? Research Division</strong> No no.
I was just saying it doesn't seem like it was a full out impact to me.
And I guess you kind of answered that follow-up question already.
And John Quealy of Canaccord has our next question.
Research Division</strong> So the first question on light building products 9% organic growth in the quarter.
Can you quantify or give us a range what weather did? And then also what the siding headwind was to that number? I think that of course the weather impact in the 3/31 quarter was much more significant than what we experienced in the June quarter.
And primarily the weather impact was related to the Northeast and Midwest.
And so I don't -- we haven't estimated a dollar value associated with the impact from weather in those 2 regions.
You can see it in the softness of some of the siding accessory products.
And it was probably -- it could have been as much as another percentage point of growth that we lost because of weather.
Research Division</strong> And then more specifically on siding do you know what the comp was year-on-year.
I assume that's down.
Did you talk about what the organic number was in siding? Like the siding accessories? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes yes that subsector.
So Don he's -- Don has some specific numbers associated with that.
Sure.
So just looking year-over-year our revenue for what would be the siding accessories would be down a couple million for -- from '13 levels.
And then of course we made up for that with the increased sales in products like roofing and trim.
So I know -- it's a little bit confusing because we include trim and roofing in our siding accessories group.
And so it's -- so the products that are like shutters gable vents mounting blocks tools those are the ones that are down like a couple of million dollars.
And we made up for that in increase in trim and roofing in our siding accessories group.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Kirk I call that that sort of legacy business like an old cap going "Oh I'm dating myself " but that's sort of how I wrap it in my estimation.
But is this a secular change or is this a good correlation to home starts.
I know you talked about the tough comp on new home starts but is the home builder market moving away from vinyl shutters? And how do you think about that question.
This isn't a new phenomenon for siding to be somewhat sideways for you guys.
I don't think that you can reach any conclusions about changes in market share over the near term.
So in the last -- I don't think you can reach a conclusion in the last 12 months or so.
If there is a an increasing loss of share or loss of share in the last 12 months.
If you go back over the last decade there has been -- vinyl has lost share to fiber cement.
And so there has been a change over a long period of time whether that change has reached resolution whether there's a change going on over the last 12 months that's difficult to tell.
You really -- it's difficult to know in the short -- in a short timeframe what factors are impacting demand.
Clearly the reduced number of entry-level homes that were being built and first-home buyers that were entering the market that factor had an impact on vinyl sales.
And so there's a number of factors going on.
And hopefully that's a short-term phenomenon and that the entry homebuyers will come back in the marketplace.
And so it's -- in the short-term I don't think anyone really knows.
Over the last decade there has been some share loss to fiber cement.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My last question on heavy.
Highway trust fund is that an issue? It certainly seems like it's a solvable question.
Maybe Kirk you're the resident Washington expert maybe you could take the crack at it.
And then also just lastly regional pricing trends you guys did really well there.
And it's just been interesting where you're using strength? So from the of course highway trust fund is going to run out of money.
And the House and Senate are both working on a -- they're working on a short-term patch.
The House has passed a funding patch that goes into late spring of next year.
The Senate is going to take up that language this week.
And it's anticipated that what will come out of the Senate will be something that will match the House's patch.
There are folks trying to change that outcome.
But the most likely result is a patch that goes into late spring.
We haven't seen any particular impact from the impending end -- running out of funding in that -- in the trust fund.
Because everybody believes that the patch is going to be passed to become law and that there will be adequate funding to continue.
So last time there were 11 patches that were passed before Congress finally enacted a 2-year extension of the highway bill.
So we're in that pattern now of going back to passing patches.
And it appears that there will be one for the current situation.
Bill do you want to talk a little bit about the question on regional pricing? Yes John I think we saw increase -- year-over-year increases in pricing across every area of the business seeing some strong pricing along the Gulf Coast in the West as we get into the peak of the construction season in the Upper Midwest.
I think we'll start to see those increases impact there.
Obviously as we've talked about in the past we increase prices at different times throughout the year in different areas of the country.
Typically in the South we typically see them going to effect in January or February.
So we start to see an earlier impact.
And as we get farther north those are typically into the beginning of our third quarter.
So we're starting to see those impacts.
But was with the group last week they're quite optimistic as we see cement begin to float price increases out across the board.
So I think we'll continue to see good positive trends in our ability to raise pricing.
And next we'll hear from John Baugh of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> My first question Kirk was on the guidance.
It sounds like we still have a very wide guidance given there's 1 quarter left.
But sounds like you're coalescing around $135 million as sort of a midpoint of some kind of range is that fair? Well that is the math taking the trend from the June 30 quarter.
That gets you to $135 million number.
I think that we've got some good strengths like in fly ash for example.
We've got volume increases and price increases that are falling through to the bottom line.
And so we are optimistic about the performance of our core segments.
We got a little bit of a -- mostly a timing issue in HCAT.
But the timing affects us on a quarterly basis.
So that's -- I think that we feel very good about being within the range and we're excited about the position going into 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes and maybe as a follow-up on that for '15 and HCM in particular I don't want to get out in front of our skis here but it sounds like volumes and pricing of cement are improving which bodes well for '15.
Have there been any discussions -- you mentioned that you were with the group last week on cement pricing specifically any increases floated out there that would begin to impact your fiscal '15 favorably? I think that the general trend is that the cement industry has the increasing costs associated with the EPA rules.
And that's been estimated to be as much as $25 per ton.
And so if they're going to be maintaining margins they're going to need to increase prices over the next couple of years in the range of 7% to 8% to -- 7% to 9% per year in order to just recoup those costs.
In addition to that we're getting to the point where as the you look at the PCA forecast with demand for Portland Cement we're approaching the point of the U.S.
practical capacity.
And so people are going to have to start importing Portland cement.
And that scarcity of supply will allow the cement guys to continue to raise prices.
Bill do you know what the PCA forecasted increase is for their price increases? Or I guess we know the volume increase.
I don't think we know what the...
Yes we see the volume.
They don't publish a price increase.
But I think what would be reasonable would be in the 7% to 9% range.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> In terms of pricing? Yes pricing for Portland cement.
So that turns out to be in the $7 to $8 range.
Yes $6 to $8 we're currently seeing some cement companies floating prices out right now of $6 to $8.
What part of that sticks we'll probably know in the next month or so.
And we've seen some announcements that some of the December January price increases for those that implemented that time or in that $6 to $8 to $9 range too.
So if cement supply tightens we would expect to see a little more of those pricing increases stick.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And how does that -- I know there's some dilution in between those and what you get on a net price.
How would say if we're looking at Portland Cement in fiscal '15 being up pick a number 7% 8%.
How would that translate to Headwaters? It's comparable to what's going on now not significant changes than where we're at now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And if that were the case if we were looking at 4% as pricing and volume's up mid-single digits should we expect a better contribution margin than 40% 45%? And then lastly if I could just throw in HCAT how do we think about modeling HCAT for next year? So if you look at I remember I've talked -- and Bill indicated in his script that what fell through to the bottom line from a topline growth was higher than our typical 45% contribution margin.
It was in the 60% 65% range.
And so if the growth in revenue is tied to price increases then you end up with a higher impact on your adjusted EBITDA of course because you don't have offsetting cost.
So if the June 30 quarter was typical of what we're going to see going forward then we could have the potential of exceeding the 45% contribution margin.
The contribution margin itself is running in that 45% range.
So you -- we would anticipate that at the EBITDA line that we'll have improved margins at the EBITDA line and maybe a contribution based on price increases higher than 45%.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then HCAT? HCAT so I think the appropriate modeling approach for HCAT is that if you didn't want to model any upside which I'm not sure I'd recommend modeling upside because it is a noncore asset for us.
I think that the starting point for next year would be how we performed in fiscal 2013.
The upside to that will be if we begin getting new orders from these new customers.
And so if you have a starting point from 2013 performance I think that there's a -- I think we have a fairly good opportunity of starting to generate positive EBITDA in HCAT in 2015.
I don't think it will be material to our financial statements.
And I don't think it will be a material amount.
But I would anticipate that in 2015 we'll have a positive EBITDA contribution from HCAT.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So just maybe assume for conservative that at least we get the $3 million swing back in '15 versus '14 that we lost? Yes because some of that is timing and some of it -- and we should be able to pick up some revenue from new customers.
And next we'll hear from Seth Yeager of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Can you talk about the most recent acquisitions in the fly ash segment? Considering they're relatively small what sort of multiples are you guys paying currently? And is it safe to say that this bolt-ons are accretive to your overall consolidated free cash flow? Well the answer to the second question is absolutely yes they're accretive to cash flow.
They're accretive to EBITDA to cash flow metrics to earnings per share metrics.
So they're absolutely accretive.
The multiples generally on a post-synergy basis the multiples are in the 5x to 7x range.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful.
When we look at the end markets for heavy materials what sort of magnitude of demand are you thinking about for your non-res construction and infrastructure exposure within the guidance that you guys have provided? In the non-res area particularly in commercial and institutional we are very oriented towards the Texas market because our block product group is a regional activity and it's -- we've got a little bit into Louisiana but it's almost entirely in Texas.
And what's -- one of the things that's very positive about the Texas economy generally is the demographics requiring additional school construction.
There's been a number of bonds that have been floated and successfully funded.
We're starting to see that the activity in school construction increased.
Because of our market share we have the opportunity to participate in many of those school construction projects.
And we think that 20 -- that it's starting to pick up as we speak.
We think that towards the end of 2014 and into 2015 we'll have very solid topline growth in our block group.
And with that should come a continuing margin expansion.
We had good margin expansion in the June 30 quarter.
We anticipated for 2014 that margins would expand and they have expanded as we've increased -- improved our manufacturing efficiencies reduced trucking expenses and grown our topline.
We think that 2015 will be a better year both topline and from a margin perspective in 2014 because of the commercial and institutional sales.
Fixed Income Research</strong> So is that -- if we think about it on a percentage basis are you sort of bracketing maybe high single-digit is that the right sort of ballpark? Yes.
I think that's -- we think that there are -- we have opportunity for consistent organic growth with what we've experienced in 2013.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
And then just last one for me within building products can you maybe discuss the higher resin cost that you're seeing out there and how that compares to pricing in both the siding and composite decking bases? And what are you seeing from competitors in terms of pricing as well? I think we have seen some PVC and polypropylene price increases.
And although the biggest impact on our margin in EBITDA margin in light building products was because of sales mix not because of cost increases we have seen cost increases.
And we are adjusting to that reality.
Dave why don't you go ahead and add some color from your perspective as you've seen the polypropylene and PVC price movements? Sure.
We've continued to see more increases go on as the year has gone on.
And we're watching it very closely up to this point.
Part of your question was what have we seen in the market.
We have not seen any movement in the market from competitors on pricing.
But we are -- we continue to see increases and as Kirk said they're primarily on polypropylene and on PVC.
And we're going to watch it.
And if we need to act accordingly we certainly will do so.
And our final question is from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups first on the heavy construction materials on the and service side.
Bill can you talk a little bit maybe about what rolled off this quarter? What your visibility is on replacing it? And maybe a longer-term view on the service business? Yes Dan.
I -- we did have some longer-term service contracts and I think a large piece of that year-over-year variance also came from some of the wet weather we experienced where some of the typical project-by-project specific activities were delayed.
We have picked up a few new long-term service contracts in the quarter that we ought to start to see some contribution from.
And we still see a fairly active bid opportunity out there.
And I think as the EPA finally publishes new disposal guidelines that we will see an increase in the uptick for more site service opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quickly for Kirk on the HCAT business.
Obviously some lumpiness and this has always been a business where it's taken always a little bit more time than originally expected to get new customers.
But given what's going on right now any change to your long-term schedule in terms of potentially divesting this business? Or is still kind of in the same pace it was before? Yes and I think that the pace is that towards the end of 2015 we think that we should be in a position depending on -- we want to get some additional licenses signed in 2015.
There's some very large facilities that are going to come online in 2016 timeframe.
And the thought is that if we add some of these new customers and we get that we're already doing these trials at and if we are able to sign a couple of license agreements with those large new facilities then that would be a point in time where we could take HCAT to market.
And hopefully that could come towards the end of 2015.
It may come a little bit later because I do think entering into some of those new license agreements will add quite a bit of value.
But that's a general kind of timeframe.
So with that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
We like to thank you all for your participation.