Good morning and welcome to the Headwaters Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Hello and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2014 Conference Call.
There is a slide presentation that accompanies today's conference call.
It can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under Events and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides and the webcast if you so choose.
If you do have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President and Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 year-end results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
In an effort to streamline our call we have condensed our slide deck and the management presentations.
And for now we will no longer include Headwaters' rotating business unit leaders.
We are trying this new format in order to make our calls more efficient and will allow you the call participants more time for Q&amp;A.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements that are related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website from Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
As you know Headwaters is a market-leading building products company with top quartile performance and exposure to end markets with significant growth opportunity.
2014 results including a very strong fourth quarter reflect that superior performance.
We see further growth opportunities in 2015 as fly ash tailwind strengthened and housing-related end markets continued their recovery.
Turning to Slide 3.
Fiscal year 2014 was very positive for Headwaters and every meaningful metric trended up revenue up 13% gross margin up 17% operating income up 23% and adjusted EBITDA up 19%.
Highlights for the year included strong fly ash pricing and drop through improved fly ash volumes strong improvements in our block and stone groups adjusted EBITDA.
We developed a leading position in 3 niche roofing product categories.
And we grew our trimboard market share by expanding distribution consistent with our core customer strategy.
We completed 4 bolt-on acquisitions.
Risk was minimal because of the close adjacency to our existing business operations allowing an easy low-risk integration.
Each transaction is positively contributing to the top and bottom line and at a level significantly in excess of our weighted average cost of capital which bodes well for long-term value creation.
Even though we borrowed $150 million of incremental debt to help fund the acquisitions our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio declined during the year.
Based on the positive momentum built in 2014 and our view of continued improvement in our end markets we are initiating guidance in the $150 million to $165 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Don will talk more about the guidance range in his portion of the call.
Now turning to Slide 4.
You can see revenues from our Light Building Products segment for the fiscal year increased by $78 million to $472 million an increase of 20% over last year.
Revenues increased 8% organically for the year.
We performed well in our end markets as we continue to offer best-in-class products meeting growth in customer demand.
Single-family housing starts our second largest end market grew 5% during our fiscal year.
Our performance obviously outpaced the end markets as we increased market share.
In 2015 we continue to be optimistic about our performance compared to the market.
We have exposure in commercial and institutional end markets mainly driven by our block product group.
Block has a majority of the sales in Texas which has been one of the fastest-growing state economies in the country.
We are seeing no negative impact from lower oil prices but rather we are benefiting from lower transportation costs as diesel prices have dropped.
Due to Texas' growing population new school builds and commercial projects should continue to be robust.
Growth in 2014 residential repair and remodel was mixed and varied by region.
We are anticipating an improved market in 2015.
We were pleased to add to our niche roofing products during 2014.
The acquired product category fit our model of high-margin niche products with good market share.
Our bolt-on acquisitions were accretive to cash flow and earnings.
We intend to continue to look for future acquisitions that meet this focused strategy.
The increase in Light Building Products 2014 revenues led to a 21% improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the year improving from $72.9 million in 2013 to $88.1 million in 2014.
In October light building products sales were positive year-over-year and we look forward to strong performance in 2015 from each of our product groups.
On Slide 5 you can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with revenue of $309 million compared to revenue of $293 million for 2013 a 5% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provides site services to many of its utility plants.
Site service revenue for 2014 was down 6% on a year-over-year basis as we completed work projects.
We replaced the site service revenue with increased sales of fly ash product resulting in margin improvements for the year.
Site service revenue was 25% of our overall revenue for the year compared to 29% last year.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will trend lower as a lower percentage of overall revenue as our fly ash sales increase.
In 2014 we experienced an increase in fly ash volume and pricing as tailwinds strengthened.
The September 2014 quarter product revenue increased 11% year-over-year due to both the increase in tons shipped and price.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 increased 18% year-over-year to $67 million compared to $57 million in 2013.
We finished the year with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.6% an increase of 230 basis points year-over-year.
We are seeing $8 to $12 per ton cement price increases being communicated to the market.
In most markets these increases are set to go into effect by the end of the first quarter of calendar 2015.
These increases are being driven by additional cost due to new environmental regulations and current demand approaching capacity in certain markets.
While the exact amount of the cement price increases that will ultimately stick is uncertain it is a positive signal for fly ash pricing.
Weather in October was relatively mild and our fly ash shipments increased compared to last year.
Demand for fly ash and pricing dynamics in key markets are favorable and we anticipate 2015 to be a record year with adjusted EBITDA exceeding our prior peak.
I would now like to turn the time over to Don to continue the presentation.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
My comments today will be directed to the slide deck as well as the press release and I'll start with Slide 6.
Q4 was a strong finish to a very good fiscal 2014.
We finished the quarter with $246 million in revenue and adjusted EBITDA of $51 million.
It was the 13th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth for the company.
Revenue increased 14% year-over-year including 15% growth in our core Light Building Products and Heavy Construction Material segments.
$51 million in adjusted EBITDA represents a 25% increase over the same period last year.
Both our legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top line and bottom line growth as the 14% growth in revenue included 10% from acquisitions and 5% growth in our core legacy Light Building Products and Heavy Construction Materials segment.
We closed the fiscal year with $153 million in cash and $213 million of liquidity.
Slide 7 shows more detail on the Q4 results.
The 14% increase in revenue led to gross profit increases of 22% year-over-year and gross margin expanding more than 200 basis points.
Light Building Products sales increased 26% in the fourth quarter including 9% from organic growth.
Q4 was the best quarter from a year -- best quarter of the year from a year-over-year sales growth standpoint for our siding group and stone and block finished the year well -- strong as well.
Light building products adjusted EBITDA grew 37% year-over-year and its adjusted EBITDA margins expanded more than 170 basis points over Q4 of 2013 with margin expansion in all major product groups.
Heavy construction materials sales grew year-over-year as demand for fly ash remained strong.
In HCM adjusted EBITDA margins at 26% for the quarter expanded more than 100 basis points -- 180 basis points rather year-over-year.
The result was a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.6% in Q4 up more than 160 basis points from Q4 2013.
Let's move to Slide 8.
Slide 8 shows the full fiscal year results.
We had 13% growth in revenue including 14% growth in our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments of which 6% was organic.
The 25% growth in Q4 adjusted EBITDA helped drive a 19% increase in adjusted EBITDA for the full fiscal year.
Operating income increased 23% over fiscal 2013 levels as revenue growth and strong earnings more than offset acquisition-related costs and marketing investment.
Net income was $15.3 million in fiscal 2014 an increase of 115% above fiscal 2013.
And adjusted EPS was $0.70 per share for fiscal 2014 up 30% from fiscal 2013 levels.
We had good performance from a cash standpoint as well.
Cash flow from operations was approximately $77 million excluding a $16 million settlement related to a legal dispute from years ago.
The $77 million represents a 30% increase in cash flow from operations year-over-year.
Let's move to Slide 9.
We finished fiscal 2014 with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.2x down from 3.8x at the end of the June quarter and down from 3.3x at the end of fiscal 2013.
As you know we issued $150 million of new unsecured notes last December largely to fund acquisitions and spent about $100 million of those proceeds on 4 transactions.
Despite the additional debt we were able to reduce our net leverage from 3.3x to 3.2x year-over-year and we did that by increasing our adjusted EBITDA and effectively managing cash and working capital.
Now let's move to Slide 10 and talk about 2015 guidance.
We're carrying positive momentum into 2015.
We're initiating guidance for 2015 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $150 million to $165 million which represents growth of between 9% and 20% over 2014 levels.
Key drivers to our 2015 performance include continuing recovery in the residential housing and R&amp;R end markets as well as demand for fly ash and favorable pricing dynamics for our high-quality ash.
Our guidance assumes growth in single-family starts in the range of 10% to 15% R&amp;R growth in the low single digits percentage growth for fly ash volumes in the high-single digits and net ash price increases in the 3% to 4% range.
Cost inflation in inputs such as PVC polypropylene cement aggregates and transportation could also impact our 2015 performance.
We saw our adjusted EBITDA margins expand 90 basis points to 17.4% in fiscal 2014 and we would expect modest expansion in margins in 2015 as well.
CapEx is expected to be in the range of $40 million.
Cash interest expense is expected to be approximately $47 million and book interest expense to be approximately $49 million in 2015.
We anticipate cash taxes in 2015 to be approximately $4 million largely due to state taxes.
At the midpoint of our guidance we expect to generate net cash flow in the range of $50 million after paying CapEx interest taxes and working capital investment.
Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I wanted to ask you about was October.
I know you touched upon it a little bit on the Heavy Construction Materials side.
But how did this look kind of more broadly on the Light Building Products side? And what are you seeing from distributors and whatnot? We are very pleased with the October sales numbers.
So we saw strength in both the heavy side and the light side of the business.
So we feel very good about going into 2015 and October is a very critical month for the quarter.
And we feel real good about top line on both sides of the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then also I wanted to ask about pricing both on Heavy Construction Materials and Light Building Products.
A lot of the -- like you mentioned a lot of the cement companies have pretty robust increases.
I think some of them are going to announce in terms of 2 times per year now.
If that were to happen would you follow suit and do 2 price increases on the heavy side? And then what is the kind of outlook on pricing for light building products? I think I saw some announced price increases of 4% to 6% range somewhere around there.
So what is your outlook there? On the heavy side we are beginning to contemplate the -- raising prices 2 times.
So if that occurs with Portland cement pricing then that's something that we are beginning to consider following that lead.
And so that's something that I think that we can look forward to as well as what happens with Portland cement pricing.
On the light side we are anticipating selected price increases on the light side of our business.
So we've gotten price increases in block and I think that the opportunity to continue to look at further price increases there is quite real.
We're looking at price increases in our siding group and selected price increases in our stone group.
So we think that we will get some pricing leverage in 2015 on the light side of our business.
Our next question is from Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus first on light building products.
It looks like there were some additional benefit from incremental distribution points.
And I don't know if you have the information available we can follow up later but do you have what was -- what helped you in the current quarter or year from the additional distribution points? Sure.
We had -- one of our key elements of our strategy is to place additional products in the hands of our core customers.
So one of the things that was very positive during the year was the acquisition of our trim board product line.
Approximately 87% of the revenue at the point in time when we acquired that product line was in New England.
And if you look at Principia or other national studies of trimboard products the sales are more evenly distributed across the country.
We felt strongly that we could take that product line and place it in the hands of some of our core 2-step distributors in other parts of the country.
That is playing out as we envisioned it would.
And so it's not that we've necessarily added entirely new distributors but rather that we're putting new products into the hands of our existing distribution.
And so you'll see an increase in revenue because of that strategy.
I think there's opportunities in the siding group and specialty siding.
There's opportunities in stone.
We're doing exactly that same thing across light building products area of our business placing additional products in the hands of our core customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that should continue -- that tailwind should help you in fiscal '15 as well I would imagine.
Yes absolutely.
That's a key part of our strategy and we will be introducing through our R&amp;D efforts new products.
And we will be looking for additional M&amp;A opportunities that are add-ons to what we're currently doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow up or second part.
If you could touch on -- it doesn't sound like you're seeing a lot of cost inflation in LBP.
Maybe you can at some point touch on that? But my other question I was hoping you could give an update on the EPA ruling that's forthcoming here on December 19 A if there's any change in your body language on expectations? And what do we anticipate to come of that December 19 date? I would like to comment on the cost inflation because one of the things that we're quite happy with and it's an important part of Headwaters culture is our ability to continually improve performance and drive efficiencies.
And even though we are seeing cost inflation we're seeing raw material cost go up we're seeing labor cost go up but what we're also seeing is improved efficiencies.
And it's really an important part of what we try to do is to become a better company each year by becoming more efficient and driving cost out of the system.
So the reason that you don't see a lot of cost inflation is because we are improving the performance of the business and that offsets a lot of the cost -- the underlying cost inflation.
Relative to the EPA the office of -- the OMB Office of Management and Budget reported that they had received from the EPA the proposed final regulations.
So what happens is that the EPA competes regulations it gets reviewed by many federal government departments.
After those reviews are completed the final step in finalizing the regulations is OMB review.
So they announced publicly that they have started that final review.
The court-imposed deadline is December 19.
Typically an OMB review takes longer than the time allocated between now and December 19.
So it is possible that that deadline may be missed.
But our understanding is the OMB is making every effort to assist the EPA in meeting that December 19 deadline.
And we and everyone that we communicate with would be shocked if the outcome of those final regulations is anything other than Subtitle D modifications.
Our next question is from Chip Moore of Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to follow up a little on that last question on inflation.
I think you talked about at least for the block business lower transport costs starting to see those with oil coming down.
How are you thinking about next year? Is that a potential tailwind what have you baked in for the outlook? Yes.
I think that we will continue to see improvements in our cost structure that will offset or more than offset the -- any cost increases.
And so -- Don you wanted to add something? Sure.
When you're thinking about our 2015 guidance we're expecting generally is something in the range of 3% to 5% inflation in our raw material inputs and transportation.
But as Kirk pointed out we have a culture that very much is focused on continuous improvement.
So we would expect to be generating upward of $10 million of cost savings opportunities that help offset some of that inflation.
In terms of our fixed cost structure I would expect inflation apart from the continuous improvement savings that I talked about of something in the 3% to 4% range for example.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess Don just for you.
Can you talk a little bit about excess capital? What's the potential for accretive deals here? You've still got about $50 million left and you're talking free cash flow of $50 million next year.
Walk us through that.
Yes exactly.
I would say that at this point we ended the year with a very solid cash and liquidity position.
We would expect to use about $50 million of cash just to run the business.
And we've got about $50 million of debt that will be maturing in early 2016.
So that will use about $50 million of capital available for investment at this point.
And we would expect to generate good cash flow next year.
We'll continue to look for bolt-on opportunities.
We've had good success with those through 20 -- the deal that we did in 2012 -- or 2013 rather and then also the deals that we did in 2014.
So I can see that we would continue to look for similar opportunities.
And we expect that those opportunities will be there and close to our core business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last maybe you can just touch on the Roof Tile acquisition a little update on the integration there and how that's progressing? Yes.
So we have -- we now have 3 roofing niche products in our portfolio our composite roofing our concrete tile and our stone coated metal.
The integration of those business opportunities has been very smooth.
We are bringing to the table now a very focused management team around these niche roofing products.
And the data that we're looking at indicates that those niche roofing products should grow at a rate faster than commodity asphalt roofing.
And so the categories are projected to take market share.
And we feel we are in a leading position in the geographies and those niches in which we compete.
So it is progressing according to plan and I think it presents us with a good opportunity to continue to improve our margins and top line growth.
Our next question is from Philip Volpicelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My first question is with regard to the fly ash price guidance up 3% to 4%.
Considering what we're seeing in cement pricing and the potential for that capacity utilization to reach 100% is that conservative? Or is there something that I'm not thinking about in terms of maybe regional where you think you'll get prices and in other regions where you might not be able to get prices on fly ash? One thing that's really important to remember when you consider our fly ash price increase guidance is that we have a variable component a variable cost component to price increases.
So what we're trying to do is give guidance as to the net price increase because that's the amount that will impact our EBITDA free cash flow and operating income.
So because of the -- our long-term exclusive contracts that we have with utilities the way that those contracts is structured we're sharing some of the price increase.
And so our price increase is going to be -- our price increases is going to be in the range that you would expect.
But what we're trying to communicate is a net number not a gross number.
Otherwise it becomes confusing because people expect that price increase to fall through to your EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> And then Kirk could you give us an update on the HCAT trials that are going on? I believe there's a couple of new refineries that were trying the product.
Where do they stand and how do they feel so far? Well generally speaking I think that we're going to end up with some new customers in 2015.
It is -- it takes a very long time for refineries to make the decision to change some of the input into these ebullated-bed reactors.
There is no question but what HCAT is a proven commercial technology and is proven to create economic benefits to the refineries.
We've had HCAT in our Neste customer for 3 or 4 years.
It's part of their standard operating procedures now.
And we feel quite comfortable that we're going to pick up some new customers in 2015 because of the trials that have been going on in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just have you seen any new entrants on the fly ash aside considering the dynamics expected in the next few year? No.
There's -- it's very stable because you have to have these long-term supply agreements.
Those do not change hands very frequently at all.
That leads to a very stable competitive environment.
One thing I would add to that as well is we haven't really seen any significant change in import activity of fly ash into the U.S.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up question on Heavy Construction Materials.
You mentioned obviously site services has been ramping down a little bit as some old contracts have rolled off.
When you look to the EPA rule you look to what's going on in North Carolina how do you view the opportunity set there as you look forward maybe not just to '15 but a little bit longer-term? The opportunity is positive.
One of the things that's happened because of the uncertainty that has been -- under which the market has been working for the last several years because of the EPA rules were unknown that some of the site service work declined.
And so when these rules get set and people understand the environment we anticipate that the service work will increase.
And so we think that the -- we think the outlook is generally positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> But not so much for '15 given your previous comments? Well I think -- yes.
I mean I think it takes a while for people to adjust.
And so I think that the overall outlook is going to end up being positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up question more on the product side.
We're getting closer and closer to the compliance date for the Mercury and Air Toxics Standard or MATS.
We know that obviously activated carbon is going to be a major product for utilities to meet that rule.
Any updated thoughts as it relates to impact to ash quality? Or is that maybe something that's pending and we'll see a little bit more as we move into next year? One of the things that we feel very good about is a new process that we have developed it's called RestoreAir.
And what we are able to do with our RestoreAir technology is apply it to the fly ash that has a high carbon content.
And after application of our RestoreAir technology that high carbon content fly ash can be used.
And so we currently have it in 3 or 4 locations operationally.
And we anticipate that that RestoreAir technology will end up being in 15 to 20 locations over the next 18 to 24 months.
So we don't think that the incremental use of activated carbon is going to have a negative impact on our fly ash sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I can just follow up there.
When you said 3 to 4 locations to 15 to 20 are those sites where you're currently providing marketing? And is this a proprietary enough product that it might actually help you gain share were there to be more bidding opportunities for other ash sources? It's in a mix of locations some existing locations and some new locations.
And yes we think that it will assist us in market share considerations.
Our next question is from Charlie Smith of Fort Pitt Capital.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the stone business.
Your outdoor and ancillary sales are they yet a material portion of your overall stone sales? And how fast are they growing? They are not yet a material part of our revenue.
The percent -- on a percentage growth basis they're growing very rapidly because they're starting off a very low base.
We think that there's a significant opportunity for those sales to become a material element.
Inc.</strong> As far as overall market share between stone veneer and brick do you have any data in terms of what the trends are there? I know historically veneer has been gaining.
Do you have any sort of recent market data there? The most recent data that we have is a little bit dated and it is consistent with your impression that stone and a variety of products actually are taking some share from brick.
I think those trends are continuing.
And our data is a little bit dated in that regard.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And finally historically there had been some issues in terms of proper installation and quality in terms of leakage on veneer.
Have those -- I occasionally run into contractors that'll talk about that.
Do you believe that that impression is gradually going away? One of the things that we try to be very careful is that the application of the materials is done appropriately.
And if it's done appropriately there is no issue.
And so I think as folks get more and more accustomed to the product you end up seeing a trend of fewer and fewer issues.
But it has to do with the installation not with the product.
Inc.</strong> Obviously you've been making efforts to instruct and inform the masonry community out there on the proper methods of installation.
Absolutely.
Our next question is a follow-up from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to just to follow up on acquisitions.
I just wanted to see first are -- is any of the $50 million that you have earmarked for acquisitions is that baked into your guidance at all? And second you were I think last year at the Analyst Day you were very much -- you talked about roofing and that's where you wanted to go in terms of an adjacent product line.
So I guess are you kind of -- are you -- what is the kind of next piece of adjacent product line that you'd be looking for? Are you -- is it more roofing or geographic expansion? Or how do you kind of look at the acquisitions kind of a little more in-depth? Rob this is Don.
I'll take the first part of the question and then Kirk will cover the second.
In terms of the $50 million of capital that might be used for acquisition activity our 2015 guidance does not include any assumed additional acquisitions to the portfolio.
So it reflects only the acquisitions done through 09/30/14.
And from a strategic perspective we are focused on our core customer sets.
So the kinds of products that we are interested in acquiring would be those products that are currently purchased by our core customer sets.
So 1-step distributors 2-step distributors masonry distribution direct contractors relative to our block product group are ready mix or utilities in the ash side.
So those -- that basically is how we're defining the products that we are interested in.
So roofing would be an area that we are interesting in but so would natural thin stone for example because those products end up going to the same distribution channels.
We would be able to leverage our sales and marketing part of our business.
And so we're basically trying to leverage those existing customer sets.
There appears to be no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Sharon Madden at Headwaters for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining the call.
We'll go ahead and end it now.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.