Good morning and welcome to the Headwaters First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross with Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There is a slide accompanying today's presentation.
That can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated Web site under Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters fiscal 2015 Q1 results.
This morning call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started on this morning's call I would like to remind everyone that Headwaters is sponsoring its Annual Investor Day Conference in New York City on March 6th at the New York Palace Hotel.
The meeting will begin at 8:00 am and adjourn at around 10:30 am.
For additional information regarding the conference please contact myself or Tricia Ross at the emails provided at the top of today's press release.
While listening to the call today please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's Web site from Headwaters' Web site or directly from the company.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
So beginning on Slide 3 we had an excellent first quarter with over 20% revenue growth and improvement in just about every metric.
The positive performance was widely distributed across both of our core segments and all of our building product categories.
Highlights for the quarter include strong high single-digit organic growth on a consolidated basis and double-digit growth in our fly ash segment.
The strongest volume increase in fly ash in over 10 years and a positive pricing environment.
All building product categories produced improved results both in volume and select pricing.
Revenue increased 21% adjusted EBITDA 39% and adjusted EPS by 143%.
Our 9% organic revenue growth was very positive and exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
But we also had very positive contributions from our bolt-on acquisition due to a number of factors including our strong first quarter performance.
We have increased the low-end of our guidance range by $5 million so that new range is $155 million to $165 million.
Now turning to Slide 4.
On Slide 4 you can see revenues from our building products segment for the first quarter increased by $24.5 million to $117.5 million an increase of 26% over last year's first quarter.
Revenues increased 8% organically.
All of our product groups experienced positive revenue growth in the quarter as the economy continue to grow and weather was somewhat better than last year.
We feel well-positioned for growth as our end markets improve because we offer best in class products that have the capacity to meet growing customer demand.
We saw signs of residential repair and remodel growth in the first quarter.
Products with major exposure to repair and remodel enjoyed mid-single digit organic growth.
For the first time in the up cycle we saw improvement throughout the quarter which bodes well for 2015 in this end market.
We added to our niche roofing products during 2014 that category continues to contribute to revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA.
The acquisitions fit our model of high margin niche products with good market share.
We continue to look for future acquisitions that meet this focused strategy.
The increase in building product revenues led to a 34% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter improving from $15.4 million last year to $20.6 million this quarter.
Now turning to Slide 5.
In our construction material segment volume increased at the fastest rate in a decade and we experienced strong demand and stable supply.
Combined with average net pricing improvements of approximately 3% product revenue was up 27% compared to 2014.
Growth resulted from a combination of good supply momentum from the summer construction season flowing into the quarter and relatively improved weather.
The significant increase in volume was driven by increases along the Gulf Coast and the Eastern part of the United States.
During the quarter we implemented price increases in multiple-market and believe that the upward pricing trends are continuing.
Traditionally we have implemented price increases in the March quarter but this year we have implemented some increases in several markets during the December quarter and anticipate implementing additional price increases during the March and June 2015 quarters.
We completed a number of short-term incremental service projects in 2014 so service revenue for 2015 was down year-over-year.
Although service projects generally have lower margins on products sales short-term service projects had existing site take advantage of fixed cost already in place and generally have high EBITDA margins because of the fixed cost leverage.
Site service revenue was 23% of our overall revenue for the December 2014 quarter compared to – for the December 2015 quarter compared to 25% for fiscal year 2014.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will continue to be a lower percentage of overall revenue because our ash sales are projected to increase.
Gross profit in the segment for the December 2014 quarter increased 30% year-over-year to $21.9 million compared to $16.8 million for the December 2013 quarter.
Gross margin increased 340 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2014 quarter – for the 2015 quarter increased 30% to $17.3 million compared to $13.3 million for the December 2014 quarter.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as revenue growth of 14% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 30%.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin increased 270 basis points over 2014 and positions us for overall 2015 margin expansion.
Meeting its December 19 2014 court order deadline EPA announced a Subtitle D non-hazardous final rule.
Beneficial use is specifically exempt from regulation and is supported by the EPA.
The EPA rule provides regulatory certainty that will allow us to continue to grow the beneficial use of fly ash.
We also anticipate that the upgraded standards for ash disposal under requisite Subtitle D will provide new opportunities for our Site Services group.
The PCA is forecasting a 8% year-over-year increase in cement consumption.
We have increased our winter storage capabilities in several parts of the country and have began to inventory fly ash for used during the construction season.
We are also continuing to install our restore air technology at plants that are injecting activated carbon.
This technology mitigates the negative impact that activated carbon has on fly ash quality.
This additional storage and the installation of these restored air units should result in an improved supply outlook for us as we begin to move into the 2015 construction season later this spring.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don for our financial review.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with Slide 6.
We had a great start to the year not only did the top-line grow by more than 20% but we saw margin expansion and generated more than $7 million of net income.
The last time we posted a positive net income in our fiscal Q1 typically one of our slower quarters due to the seasonality was seven years ago in fiscal 2008.
This was also the 14th consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth.
There are many positives in the quarter which reflected solid broad-based performance with growth across the business.
We finished the quarter with $200 million in revenue and adjusted EBITDA of $34 million a 39% year-over-year increase in EBITDA.
Both our legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top and bottom-line performance as the 21% growth in revenue included 9% of organic growth and 12% growth from acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per share is a measure that appears to be gaining use in the financial markets as a data point of company performance.
Like adjusted EBITDA adjusted EPS can be helpful in looking past the impact of non-routine items to measure underlying financial performance.
We began providing adjusted EPS in fiscal 2013 an expectation that the metric would be helpful to our investors which has been confirmed from feedback that we received.
Our adjusted earnings per share this quarter increased 143% year-over-year to $0.17 per share.
On a trialing 12 months basis revenue was $825 million and adjusted EBITDA was $147 million a 17.8% adjusted EBITDA margin for the trailing 12 months.
That 17.8% margin is just 10 basis point short of our 2006 peak margins for the ongoing business when we generated $860 million of revenue.
Let's move to Slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
The 21% top-line growth in the quarter along with cost reductions drove profit and margin expansion down the income statement.
Gross profit increased 36% year-over-year and gross margins expanded 320 basis points a reflection of the strong operating leverage in the business.
Operating income at $19 million grew 153% year-over-year and operating margins expanded 500 basis points.
Net income grew $8.5 million from a net loss of $1.4 million in Q1 2014 to a net income of $7.1 million.
We ended the quarter with $163 million of pretax NOLs and $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
Let's move to Slide 8 I'm pleased that we continue to make progress reducing our net leverage through strong financial performance and cash generation.
We finished the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBTIDA ratio of 3.0 down from 3.2x at the end of fiscal 2014.
While our net debt ratio can fluctuate from period-to-period for a number of reasons including investing in bolt-on acquisitions we are pleased with the trend in our net leverage and we will continue to focus on strong cash generation.
I would also note that the recent debt upgrades from Moody's and S&amp;P reflecting the continued strengthening of our balance sheet and our financial performance.
Now let's move to Slide 9 and take a closer look at the 2015 guidance.
We talk a quite a bit about our 2015 guidance in November so I won't take time away from Q&amp;A to repeat generally how we think about our end markets in 2015.
While our thoughts on end market growth remains similar to what we shared in November we were encouraged by the broad-based strength in our business in Q1 enough that we are updating our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance range to $155 million to $165 million.
The updated range represents growth of between 12% and 20% over 2014 levels.
With that I will turn the call back over to the operator to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
That was a good quarter and I just wanted to ask about the fly ash kind of volume gains you have seen so are the gains that you are seeing being driven just by higher cement volumes or are you actually starting to see real kind of pick-up in the replacement rate and kind of related to that where you seeing some cement shortages? Of course we don't have the cement volumes for the entire quarter.
But our volume went up 24% so more likely than not our volume went up in the quarter at a faster rate than cement volumes.
And this implies that or could imply that we have gained some market share or it could imply that the substitution rates has changed somewhat.
So we are anticipating that the substitution rate will go up as the cement starts to be impacted by the lack of production capacity in the United States and demand continues to increase.
But more likely than not the biggest impact in the quarter was from changes in market share and to maybe a less degree an increase in substitution rate.
Okay great.
And you mentioned increasing the storage how much did you increase the storage over the past – I guess in your most recent quarter here? Most the changes in storage capacity will be at smaller site so I typical site maybe 10 to 15 000 tons.
And so our goal is to have multiple sites with that kind of a smaller storage capacity.
So hopefully we will get – we will continue to increase that number and get that number to where it is a material amount of incremental storage.
And that's not going to add any I guess additional CapEx that's all baked in correct? Yes.
We don't anticipate significant CapEx or even any material CapEx number associated with an incremental storage.
Okay.
And one last one here.
Just wanted to get your view on that kind of trends in January in both sides of the business? As you get into the winter months and winter becomes more severe it's more difficult to pick out a trend.
We are comfortable that the increase in fly ash should continue throughout the remaining nine months of the year.
So we feel pretty good about that.
The repair and remodel trend during the quarter was positive throughout the quarter.
And so we don't have any indications of that trend should change but we are in the winter and so it's more difficult to pick out a trend.
But by and large I think that we were – we feel very positive about the quarter and those trends continuing into the rest of 2015.
All right.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Kirk.
Good morning Don.
Good morning.
I wanted to try and get a little deeper on the light building product site organic growth was about 8% to 9% in the quarter.
You cited some strength in R&amp;R could you maybe add a little color it appears that there is some either recovery in certain markets certain product categories as there was not much in a way of weather contributions.
So I guess the question is where are you seeing above plan trend and can you confirm that there really was no quote catch up or go forward from weather in the quarter in that particular segment? I don't think that we had any pull forward or any catch up as far as the revenue is concerned.
So it was a pretty straight up quarter from that perspective.
We have in our trim product we have expanded a distribution that was the original strategy it was concentrated with about 87% of revenue from the – in the New England region.
We have expanded that distribution now throughout the middle part of the country and we got some opportunities to move that distribution west.
So we are seeing an up tick in trim sales.
Our other products – legacy products that have repair and remodel performed better in this quarter than in any quarter in the up cycle.
So this mid singles growth was very positive for us.
And again we don't see – we didn't see any indication that that trend would be changed as we go into the rest of 2015.
So we had some – we had upside there.
And our products that have exposure to new residential instruction they performed double-digit growth.
And so this quarter was very broad-based again with all product categories performing very well.
It's helpful.
In terms of what the acquisitions that have been folded in have you seen any change in geographic dispersion on product sales or where you may have benefited from more on a south or particular in the Midwest as it relates particular to this quarter I guess? I mean the easiest example is the one that I gave which is the trim product.
We have clearly moved out of the New England area on growing that product with our two-step distribution across the country.
And the ultimate goal there is to have national distribution of that product.
So that's a clear example of a change in geography.
I think that we have had the introduction of the roofing products we have a national distribution model to our composite roofing and floor – our stone coated roofing products.
And so we are seeing a broad based sales not particularly oriented to any geography.
We did pick up some additional distribution in the west and I think that was helpful.
But by and large I think that's clearly a – we are getting some national growth in those roofing products.
California has been good from a stone perspective we have had some growth in the Midwest and East in our stone products primarily related to new residential construction.
So it's pretty broad-based across the company and across the country.
Okay.
Finally if I may – to the extent that you can tease out or siphon out for us the cost environment that's underway here and in particular what I'm referring to is transportation or diesel cost.
And secondly any input raw cost because if I'm not mistaken could I think that two businesses act a little bit differently in terms of either surcharges or passthroughs which are generally part of HCM segment and maybe somewhat different structure within light building product? So because generically could you help us understand maybe over the next 6 to 12 months what you are anticipating in terms of either – and in terms of the cost environment for the company.
Thank you.
Al this is Don.
I'm going to – I will take that question.
First of all it would be helpful for you to have just the metrics around raw materials and the quantities that we use and I will let you draw some conclusions in terms of what might happen as prices for these raw materials potentially go down.
We have got a couple of key resin based products – raw materials rather that go into our products on the light side.
For example polypropylene we used about 18 million pounds of polypropylene every year and we also use PVC in our business.
And with that we use generally something in the range of about 30 million pounds of PVC.
Now we would expect that if oil prices and gas prices remain low that will see decreases in those input costs which will be good for our business.
We also expect that it will be a hard fought with the manufacturers of those products to get them to reduce prices.
So I wouldn't expect an immediate drop in those input costs and the business but still there – could be the potential for some good tailwinds in terms of those material costs.
Then we got diesel in our business and of course there is other things as well but these are the kind of three main inputs that would be tied to energy.
With diesel on the light side of our business we use something in the range of 900 000 to 1 million gallons of diesel.
With that of course with the drop in oil prices we would expect to see some tailwind in our cost for transportation on the light side of the business.
On the heavy side of the business we have a little bit different structure which I think is what you are pointing out.
It is a structure where often we have passthroughs or surcharges that we got build into our contracts to help us protect ourselves from changes in fuel costs.
So I would say on that the construction material side of the business we have kind of a fractional exposure to gas and oil prices.
And so although I would expect again with low diesel to have some benefits it would be a fractional amount of what we might see if we had full exposure to those cost inputs.
I hope that helps.
It does.
Thank you Don.
The next question comes from Chip Moore with Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Kirk on fly ash pricing 3% net price in the quarter very good.
That sounds like you are pretty optimistic for similar price increases.
Should we think about that as a source of upside in terms of that 3% to 4% contemplated in the outlook for the year or how we are thinking about that? Yes.
I think we are pretty comfortable that we can continue to move forward in that 3% price increase.
But there is a potential it that we could get some improvement off of that 3%.
And we are certainly to be in the market trying to do that.
And one thing I would add this is Don.
When you think about our guidance for the year we did anticipate fly ash price increases in the range of net 3% to 4%.
So if we capture that that would be consistent with what we expected in – as we developed our guidance.
Okay sure.
And moving to the services side of that business it sounds like you are a little more optimistic on that picking up again how long do you think it takes for whether it states to clarify their regulatory mechanisms to trickle down? It's going to take awhile.
I wouldn't anticipate significant changes in service revenue in 2015.
It's going to take at least 2015 for people to adjust for the new rule set.
Yes.
That's fair.
And then at last moving over to light building particularly on the block business maybe you can talk about what you are seeing in terms of trends there particularly with – obviously the oil and gas industry being big for the Texas market? The trends are quite positive for us.
We have seen no negative impact whatsoever.
Our revenue is principally institutional sales and there is probably over 50 school districts that have already raised money and have projects that are in different stages of moving forward.
We anticipate those projects are move to look forward into 2015/2016.
And feel pretty comfortable that our base revenue in the Texas market is very solid.
Yes.
That's perfect.
Thanks Kirk.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
Couple of quick follow-ups here you talked about the blocks business in Texas can you also talk maybe about the fly ash business how much exposure you have to the Texas market in terms of sales and what the nature has been in terms of the demand and have you seen any changes there in the recent past? And Texas is a very important state to Headwaters both from a block perspective and from fly ash perspective.
A lot of our fly ash sales go into infrastructure projects and those projects are planned out 12 to 18 months and some of the very larger ones actually longer than that.
But since those projects have been – they have been planned for 12 15 to 18 months what we are seeing is a continued increase in these fly ash.
And so we feel very comfortable that our – again our core business that is in the Texas market is very solid continues to perform well and we anticipate that will continue for the next 12 15 months.
This is Don.
One other thing I would add to that is we of course are talking to our customers on a pretty regular basis and our ready-mix customers in Texas are still very optimistic in terms of a strong 2015.
They are continuing to strength in demand and so we are seeing 2015 as a good year.
Got it.
That's good color.
Two more quick ones first on the energy business a little bit softer this quarter I realize there is some lumpiness because you only have a couple of customers.
Can you maybe talk through where you are on the new business acquisition front there? And secondly on your plans in terms of long-term ownership of this business? I think that we have made some very good progress in the quarter and anticipate that we will have one to two new customers in 2015.
And I think that the direction of our interaction with those customers are positive.
So I feel comfortable that we are going to end up with incremental customers.
Importantly the trend is very positive as far as the market size that we are engaged.
So it's going from like 500 000 barrels per day to over a million barrels per day.
And our relationship with these new – with the new capacity is coming online is what gives us great comfort in the value-added proposition that we are bringing to the table and the creation of value for our shareholders.
We anticipate that we will sell the energy component of our business that HCAT and the timing of that is probably into 2016 when we will be able to seriously consider that so.
Okay.
And then the last question just on your corporate level SG&amp;A the numbers have bounced around a little bit it look like you are running at a much higher run rate in the second half of last year and they came down pretty dramatically in the first quarter.
Can you maybe help us think through the seasonality of that or how to think about that over the course of the year? Yes.
This is Don.
I will answer that question.
First you will see a little bit of seasonality just due to the timing of things like marketing spend.
There is not a lot of science to it that I can give you but there is on the margin some seasonality.
One thing to keep in mind when you look at our fixed costs or SG&amp;A is that the acquisitions as we pick up businesses we pick up their fixed cost structures.
And so when you look period to period especially year-over-year and you see changes in SG&amp;A typically upward changes of SG&amp;A you need to keep in mind that those acquisitions can be a really key driver in those increases.
Now our goals around SG&amp;A are to manage it very very aggressively and so we look to keep our inflation around fixed cost including SG&amp;A to very very tight.
We want to continue to progress toward leveraging that pool of costs and getting that SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue down in the 15% or lower range.
That's our longer term goal.
And we are continuing to progress with that.
I was really focusing just on the corporate line which I think excludes the acquired enterprises.
You were running about corporate level operating income is about $4.5 million cost this quarter and you are running $6 million and $7 million in the second half of last year.
So I'm just trying to figure out if this is the run rate or if we need to think it's going to move back toward to where it was in the last half of last year? One thing to keep in mind when you look at that line item we do have some cash SARs instruments that are still outstanding that for the individual business units including corporate.
We leave that variable expense in the figures you are seeing and then we strip out the effect of cash charges for the entire company in one-line.
So what you are seeing in some of the variability from period-to-period has been the movement in stock price which has driven compensation expense typically upward because the stock has been going up.
I think it's going on as we generally prognosis in the June and September quarters because of the seasonality – the underlying seasonality of the business and that has an impact on corporate SG&amp;A.
They will certainly effect – for sure the quarter-over-quarter year-over-year you will see that effect typically but that's a good point.
Sounds good.
Thanks for the color.
You bet.
Next question comes from Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So most of my questions have been answered but I just wondering if Don you could give us some thoughts on the balance sheet your seven and five-eights are callable in April then your seven and quarters are callable in January of next year and then obviously you got the convertible and subordinated note due in February of next year.
How do you see the balance sheet progressing when you consider refinancing the seven and five-eights I think that and then doing the rest of the structure as they comes due or would you contemplate a global recapitalization? No.
We are looking at all options relative to what the market conditions are.
And so one of the things that we are enjoying is some flexibility and that's come to us because of the performance of the business and the cash generation that's been posted.
So when we are looking at our capital structure we are looking at options available.
We have got the near term maturity is going to be the eight and three quarter notes that's how we are going to mature in 2016 apart from that it's about do we want to take advantage of call options available.
The nearest term call option as you pointed out is the $400 million of notes that we can call at 1038 starting in April of this year.
And we are looking at all the options available to us in terms of that call.
If the market conditions are there I could see us doing something.
If we don't feel market conditions are right then we are in a fortunate position where we don't have that debt that is imminently maturing and we could wait to for even more favorable market conditions to be there.
As far as what we have replaced it with if we did again it's driven largely by what's the market offering in terms of the different instruments whether it would be term instruments or high-yield instruments and we will look to be economy animals and make the right choice.
Great.
And then in terms of acquisitions obviously they come up and go depending upon what the market is doing.
Any thought to what the maximum you might consider in terms of size of acquisition for the rest of the year? There isn't.
We don't really have a size parameter.
We are looking for high margin niche opportunities and particularly ones where we can – where the acquisition is consistent with our core strategy of dealing with our customer base and a total solution approach to that customer base.
So there isn't necessarily a size parameter that we are interested in.
We are interested in the post synergy creation of value that is consistent with our existing strategy.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Jeff Bernstein with AH Lisanti.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just wanted to follow up a little bit more on the Texas market.
I think your exposure there between block fly ash and I guess whatever piece of the stone business was there was something around 20% or so.
Is that kind of the right number? And can you talk specifically to the faux stone business? Hey that number is in the ball park.
And actually the way that we take the stone to market in Texas is through our block product group.
And so it's actually included in that number and in as part of our block product group sales.
So it's a very – it's a – we have very minimal exposure in our stone product in the Texas market.
Okay.
So that piece of the block business is just not very big? Correct.
Got you.
Very small.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from Eleanor Price with Insight Investment.
Please go ahead.
Hi there.
Most of my questions have actually been answered.
Just to follow-up one on the balance sheet structure.
Do you have any sort of specific net leverage targets that you have got in mind given the sort of – puts a lot of deleveraging of recent years? Actually our stated goal has been a net leverage ratio of 2.5 to 3x.
And so this quarter we hit the top-end of that range.
Okay.
And sorry where do you – you are almost there in terms of the target.
I mean would you rather be at 2.5 versus 3 or from the sort of level you would be happy to look at more bolt-on acquisitions as long as they can releverage the balance sheet sort of too much as it were? That's correct.
But we also have a – we also intend to reduce our gross debts.
So we will proceed along that path.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Charlie Smith with Fort Pitt Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Excellent quarter.
My question is on the manufactured stone business.
It looked like you had sort of low double-digit type growth there in that business.
Can you break out the components in terms of price and volume? Yes.
In our stone product group predominant factor that drives revenue growth is volume.
We have some selected price increases but they are immaterial as compared to the volume increases.
Okay.
And how you position for capacity there? Probably in the 65% capacity 65% to 70% capacity.
Okay.
Does that apply across all geographies? Yes.
That's generally true.
Okay.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
If there are no further questions then we will go ahead and conclude the call.
We appreciate your participation.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.