Welcome to the Headwaters Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated second quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation.
They can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the events and presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2015 Q2 results.
This morning's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Newman Headwaters Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21-E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' Annual and Quarterly Reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available for from the SEC website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Turning to slide 3 of the presentation we had a very positive quarter continuing our path of topline growth with leadership economics.
Highlights from the quarter included double-digit organic revenue growth near record year-over-year percentage increase in fly ash volume and a positive pricing environment continued growth in building products revenue and adjusted EBITDA and we completed the debt restructuring repayment that will save $16 million in annual interest expense.
Revenue increased 15% adjusted EBITDA 35%.
Adjusted EPS went from a negative to a positive $0.06.
The 10% organic revenue growth was very positive and was the fastest organic growth rate in several years.
Due to a number of factors including our strong six-month performance we have increased our fiscal 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance range to $155 million to $170 million.
During the quarter we restructured our debt by repaying approximately $49 million of our 8.75% convertible note and refinanced our $400 million senior secured notes.
The results of the restructuring included reduced total debt by $25 million reduced our weighted average interest rate to 5.2% extended our senior secured debt maturities to 2022 increased our free cash flow annually by $16 million.
And on a pro forma basis trailing 12 months adjusted EPS was $1.09 at March 31.
So now turn to slide 4 of the presentation.
As you can see revenues from our building products segment for the second quarter increased $12.3 million to $106.4 million an increase of 13% over last year's second quarter.
Revenues increased 7% organically.
We experienced broad-based improvement in revenues in the quarter even as the economy slowed and despite extreme winter conditions in certain key geographies.
As the economy strengthens over the summer we're well-positioned for growth.
We saw similar signs of residential repair and remodel improvement in the second quarter as we did in our first fiscal quarter.
Products with major exposure to repair and remodel enjoyed mid-single-digit organic growth which is an improvement over prior period.
Growth of single-family housing starts for the first half of our fiscal year grew 6% slightly higher than the 5% growth during our fiscal year 2014.
Since our product with exposure to new construction grew faster than housing starts would indicate we have outperformed the expected growth rate due to the introduction of new products and potentially market share gains.
We added to our niche roofing products during 2014.
This category performed well in the quarter as sales increased year-over-year.
We feel that specialty roofing products continue to grow at a faster pace than commodity roofing products.
The increase in building products revenue led to a 22% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter improving from $11.1 million last year to $13.5 million this quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved by 90 basis points due to operating leverage as well as cost improvements.
That included the benefit from lower energy costs.
Now turn to slide 5.
You can see that revenue for the March 2015 quarter in our construction materials business was $67.5 million compared to $59.1 million for the March 2014 quarter resulting in a 14% year-over-year increase.
The growth was related to increased volume and price of fly ash sold during the quarter.
As you know Headwaters Resources provides site services to many of its utility clients.
Site service revenue for the March 2015 quarter was lower year-over-year due to work completed on certain contracts.
Site service revenue was 25% of our overall revenue for the March 2015 quarter compared to 32% last year.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will be a lower percentage of overall revenue than in 2014 because our ash sales are projected to increase.
During the March quarter we experienced colder than normal temperatures in the Northeast and an abnormally wet winter along the Gulf Coast.
Despite this weather there was an increase in the tons of high quality fly ash shipped for the March 2015 quarter driven by increases in other parts of the United States.
During the quarter we realized a net 5% year-over-year price increase for high-quality fly ash.
As we have done in prior years we have implemented price increases in the March quarter and the pricing environment continues to be favorable.
We continue to project a net 4% price increase for the year.
The Portland Cement Association is forecasting 7.5% growth of cement consumption in calendar 2015.
We continued to see strong demand for fly ash and we expect to be positive relative - we expect a very positive environment for fly ash demand.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased 40% to $12 million compared to $8.6 million last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 320 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as the revenue growth of 14% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 40%.
The EPA recently published its final subtitle D rule.
Beneficial use is specifically exempt from regulation and it is supported by the EPA.
The EPA rule provides regulatory certainty that will allow us to continue to grow the beneficial use of coal ash.
We also anticipate that the upgraded standards for coal ash disposal under requisite Subtitle D will provide new opportunities for our site services group.
Legislatively there is a bill moving through the House of Representatives using the EPA regulations as a basis for minimum federal standards but it shifts enforcement from citizen lawsuits to the state environmental agencies.
Now I would like to turn the time over to Don for our financial review.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with slide 6.
This was our best March quarter from a revenue operating income and adjusted EBITDA standpoint since 2007 and showed continuation of the momentum we have built in the business over the past four years.
Not only did the topline grow 15% but we saw margin expansion and substantial operating income and adjusted EBITDA growth.
We finished the quarter with $180 million of revenue up from $157 million in 2014.
Both legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top and bottom line performance as the 15% growth in revenue included 10% organic growth and 5% growth from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was $24 million an increase of 35% over 2014 levels.
Year-to-date the business has excelled with revenue growth of $57 million.
While revenue increased 18% in the first half of the fiscal year adjusted EBITDA increased 38% reflecting our strong operating leverage and cost management efforts.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
This was the 15th consecutive quarter positive year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth and the eighth quarter in a row of double-digit revenue growth.
Revenue growth was balanced between our core segments as building products revenue increased 13% year-over-year and construction materials revenue increased 14%.
Gross profit increased 22% and gross margin extended 155 basis points as revenue increases dropped through.
Revenue growth and cost management efforts resulted in a 15-fold increase in operating income from near breakeven levels in 2014 to more than $8 million in the current quarter.
Interest expense in the quarter includes roughly $25 million of non-routine costs associated with early debt repayments in the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $190 million of pretax NOLs and $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
After adjusting for non-routine items such as the additional interest charges and acquisition-related amortization adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.06 per share compared to a loss of $0.04 in 2014.
Now let's move to slide 8 and look at the year to date results.
We started the fiscal year with 21% topline growth in Q1 and followed that with strong performance of 15% topline growth in Q2.
The result was revenue growth of more than $57 million year to date up 18% from the first half of fiscal 2014.
The top line performance resulted in a 29% increase in gross profit a 238% increase in operating income and a 38% increase in adjusted EBITDA.
The dollar growth was matched with margin expansion as gross margin increased 240 basis points operating margin increased 470 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 220 basis points.
For the trailing 12 months ended March 31 revenue was $849 million.
Adjusted EBITDA $154 million; and adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.1%.
The 18.1% margin actually exceeds the 17.9% margin we achieved at our peak in 2006.
Moving to slide 9 the March quarter was important from a capital structure standpoint as well.
We refinanced our 7 5/8 senior secured notes with a $425 million term loan B.
The term loan matures in March of 2022 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 350 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1%.
The refinancing results in a $12 million reduction in annual cash interest costs.
We also repaid $49 million of 8.75% convertible notes that were originally to mature in February 2016 saving an additional $4 million in annual cash interest.
Our annual cash interest expense has been reduced from a run rate of $47 million at the close of the December 2014 quarter to a run rate of approximately $31 million.
GAAP interest expense has also been reduced to an annual expense of $33 million.
With these steps our weighted average interest rate has been decreased to 5.2% and our nearest scheduled significant debt maturity is January 2019.
We finished the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.1 times down from 3.2 times at the end of fiscal 2014.
We also amended our ABL facility during the quarter extending its maturity to March 2020 and improving pricing and flexibility.
Now let's move to slide 10 and talk about 2015 guidance.
With a strong performance in the first six months of the year and a positive outlook for the remainder of the year we're raising our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance to a range of $155 million to $170 million.
This is the second upgrade to our guidance in as many quarters.
The updated range represents growth of between 12% and 23% over fiscal year 2014 levels.
With the half year of the interest savings we anticipate generating $55 million to $60 million of free cash flow in fiscal 2015 excluding early debt repayment premiums.
With that I will turn the back over to the operator to take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And our question comes from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
First question I wanted to ask was about the guidance; as you were just mentioning raised it two quarters in a row here.
I was wondering if you could give us some detail on which divisions in particular are driving the increase in the guidance this quarter.
Generally we have had very good performance in both segments and feel comfortable that most segments are contributing to growth in our adjusted EBITDA.
We do think that the construction materials segment performed a little bit better in the March quarter.
And so that supported our decision to raise guidance.
Got it.
And digging in on the construction materials 14% revenue growth.
And if you strip out the services decline that would imply fly ash growth of high teens even perhaps.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about from an end market perspective that is pretty impressive growth and certainly above what you have assumed as guidance for the rest of the year.
What has been driving that just from an end market perspective in your view? I think there are several things that are occurring.
Clearly there is continued demand for Portland cement.
And as a substitute product we get to benefit from that increased overall demand in Portland cement.
I think that there has been an opportunity to increase the substitution rate.
That is one of the things that is driving fly ash consumption at a higher rate than Portland cement consumption.
And then there are some opportunities to gain a little bit of market share.
I think those other factors that are driving the upside to our fly ash sales.
Got it.
And just one modeling question.
The services I think you mentioned was down year-over-year in gross revenues.
You mentioned for the year that you expect the percentage component services to be down.
Would it also be down on an absolute gross basis? Or would you expect - I think you mentioned some temporary factors.
Would you expect those to reverse in the back half of the year? We had an exceptionally good quarter in 2014 from a service perspective.
We had a number of projects that were relatively high margin and short in duration.
Those projects have completed.
And so we expect that the remainder of the year is going to be relatively consistent with prior year.
But the percentage is going to be lower because fly ash sales will be significantly higher.
And our next question is from John Baugh from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
I was curious on this thing on the fly ash what the pricing environment has done relative to your expectations.
I heard you said you still expect 4% for the year.
But I'm wondering as we get later in the year what we get closer to niche roof with demand being so strong on a unit basis whether there is potential for pricing to go up from here or that ash should stay with 4% net pricing for the year? We think that there may be some upside opportunity in pricing.
We typically raise prices in the March quarter which is - traditionally that is what happens and that is what happened this year.
We're getting to a point in time where there could be some shortages in Portland cement relative to - comparing demand to production capacity.
And we will have to start importing Portland cement to make up that gap.
But that does give us an opportunity to not only increase volume of fly ash sales but also a trend would be towards a positive pricing environment.
So there could potentially be some upside.
One thing I would add to that too in the first half of the year our pricing I would say has been consistent with what we had expected.
In Q1 our net price increases were at 3%.
Q2 they were at 5% so right in that range of what we have talked about for guidance through this year but maybe some upside for the second half.
And Kirk if I heard you correctly I think you referenced a 5% growth rate on building products side on the repair and remodel market.
Correct me if I'm wrong on that.
But I'm curious given the weather issues and other things do you think that pace was maybe a little bit better than the market? I guess what I'm really driving at is your sense of share gain within that area specifically.
I think that we're experiencing some share gain.
It depends on the different product category.
But for certain of these product categories I think we're experiencing share gain.
And lastly could you - without obviously giving us specifics any sense of the acquisition pipeline and your appetite for acquisitions at this point in time? Thanks so much and congrats on a great quarter.
We're being very disciplined relative to our acquisition activities.
The targets need to fit squarely within our strategy.
But we're very very interested in target acquisitions that do fit that strategy both from an operation perspective a product perspective and a pricing perspective.
We're in the very early stages on looking at a number of potential bolt-on acquisitions.
And our next question is from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
First in light building products you mentioned some strength in deciding siding accessories.
Can you give us a little bit more detail how the different product lines were going specifically around the vinyl business as well as some of the rock business? I have a follow-up.
I think in siding accessories there is - we have expanded our customer network not to new customers but rather taking the cellular PVC trimboard product and expanding it to existing customers outside of its traditional base in New England.
And that is proving to be very positive.
We anticipate double-digit growth in our PVC trimboard product.
And so that is growth in excess of market.
And so the reason that that occurs is because of the expansion of that product into a larger customer base.
We have also introduced a new specialty siding product.
We're very excited and enthusiastic about how this product has been received in the marketplace.
We have developed and applied some technology to the development of this product that has really never been done before in a specialty siding product.
And we're getting a very positive response from that new specialty siding product and we anticipate that we will be able to gain some market share.
So we're very positive about siding accessories particularly with the two examples that I just gave you for market share expansion.
And Kirk looking at the category overall in terms of channel sell-in given a cold and relatively snowy winter we had in the northeast portion of the country does the channel have good inventories or are you lagging behind at all? I don't think that there is a lot of inventory in the channels.
I mean there was a dramatic change in the down cycle that I don't think has reverted to the addition of inventories in the channels.
We have got plenty of capacity.
We're still making shipments in 48 to 96 hours after receipt of the orders.
So there isn't a significant reason for the channels to increase their inventory levels.
So I think to a large degree we have become more efficient as a system in getting these products into the hands of our customers without the need for a lot of inventory.
And my last one shifting over to fly ash on the Lafarge and Holcim acquisition and some divestitures here the United States is it creating any channel churn for you folks to get either new customers or incremental pricing? Or is it just more of a corporate issue and the operating terminal guys aren't seeing any of that disruption? Thanks again.
You're welcome.
I don't think that there is a lot of impact on those transactions that is bearing on Headwaters.
We're not seeing a lot of change as a result of those transactions.
And our next question is from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to touch on the fly ash business.
Kirk to take a step back and summarize what I think on the quarter what I heard you say is that the Northeast was cold the Gulf Coast was wet and it picked up - I don't know if it was volume but certainly some volumes in other parts primarily in the central region.
And given that that is a little bit better price/margin for you that led to maybe the stronger performance in the quarter.
Is that a fair assessment? Or if not could you add a little bit more color on the strengths? I think your assessment is fairly close to being accurate.
We did have good growth in the West.
The West has some of our highest margins.
And so from a mix perspective that was positive.
Even though it was wet in the Gulf Coast we did have growth in the central part of the country.
And so by and large there was momentum that started in the first quarter that carried over into the second quarter.
And we think as the rain abates in the Gulf region that there is a lot of demand there.
So we're very optimistic toward the remainder of the year.
Right.
And if I recall the president of that group has said in the past that weather delays are simply that.
It is not lost business so hence supporting the positive outlook for the balance of certainly the calendar year.
Is that fair? Yes I think that is right.
Yes that is right.
Okay.
And then obviously the EPA ruled but where are we on the service potential contract wins at various utility locations? And what is to be expected some additional service contracts down the road? Are those starting? Are you submitting bids? Have you - have any been let? How are we positioned there? I think we're experiencing the highest bid volume that I can remember.
And so we think that there is some opportunities for growth in the service side of the business.
It is a little bit different than the fly ash side of the business.
But we're seeing a pretty good backlog Al and bidding on projects.
And when do you expect that we would start to hear you talk about contracts being awarded and therefore contributing? Or are we still in the fiscal 2016 in terms of that potential? For financial impact it will be fiscal 2016 for sure.
And we won't talk about it unless we win a few of the contracts.
But it will end up having impact in fiscal 2016.
Just two housekeeping items maybe for Don.
Interest expense for a run rate of $31 million in terms of the next quarter Q3 are there other non-debt related costs or noninterest costs that will be hitting below the line? Just a clarification on whether that would be amortization cost or others - what besides just the actual rate cost? So you're talking about additional expenses other than cash interest expense; is that right Al? Right.
That is right.
Okay.
So from a cash run rate we're at about $31 million.
From a GAAP run rate standpoint it is about $33 million.
So you're picking up about $2 million of non-cash related expense on an annual basis.
And I think if you go back and you look at prior quarters that non-cash element of our interest expense is pretty consistent on the go forward as it has been in the prior several quarters.
That's right.
Okay.
And then at the end of the call you mentioned free cash flow excluding certain items was going to be around - I don't know if it was $55 million to $60 million or $50 million to $60 million.
And what was A that range and then B what were the items that you excluded or anticipate to exclude to get us to that? Sure.
The way to think about it first is we had originally given guidance around our free cash flow for 2015 at around $50 million.
And because of the refinancing and the debt repayments and generating $16 million of an annual interest - cash interest benefit we're going to pick up about half of that $16 million in the second half of this year.
So that gets us from $50 million to $58 million.
So we wanted to show that connection when we gave that range of $55 million to $60 million of free cash flow.
In terms of the prepayment premiums that we experienced in the second quarter with the repayments and the refinancing there were - [indiscernible] was roughly $21 million of cash related expenditures on retiring the 7 5/8 and retiring the 8 3/4 converts.
And so that gives you a sense as to the cash out the door to support those good restructuring activities that we did with our debt.
And I would be remiss if I didn't ask if you had the cash flow from ops for the quarter or for the first six months of the year.
It is not something that we would typically talk about at this point.
We will share that in our Q which we will file later this week.
And our next question is from Rohit Seth from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
It is Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
I have a question on briefing.
I know you have been doing some integration work there some distribution expansion.
But can you give us an update on where you stand on that? And also I assume that would be an area for bolt-on.
Typically what kind of products would you like to add? To answer the last half of your question first we're pretty comfortable with the three niche products that we're currently in which are the composite stonecutter metal and concrete roof tile.
So we think that those three products are projected to grow at a rate higher than not only commodity products but higher than other niche products as well.
So we feel pretty good about the three products that we're in.
From an acquisition perspective we would be interested in acquisitions in all three of those product categories so the three that I just mentioned.
And our goal is leadership economics which is - we define that as a 20% adjusted EBITDA margin.
I think we're looking at opportunities to improve our existing margins in those products.
And so just like we did in the trim board product where we went from 11% or 12% adjusted EBITDA up to a 20% adjusted EBITDA I think there is an opportunity to do something similar in these niche roofing products.
And so you're absolutely right.
That is something that is currently on our radar screen to positively impact the margins in those products.
And would an acquisition be focused primarily on a new product or would it be a distribution territory of the business? If it's not a new product.
I think we're comfortable with the product categories that we're currently involved in.
If we did a transaction in concrete tile it could be an existing territory but we're in Florida.
That product is relatively heavy so we're limited to Florida.
So a transaction outside of Florida would clearly be an expansion of our geography.
The other two products are nationally based.
And so a transaction wouldn't expand a geography but what it could do is increase our penetration into our customer base.
And there could be synergies from a manufacturing perspective for a transaction in either the composite roofing or the stone coated metal.
And our final question comes from Dan Manes from Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
If I'm the last question that means I have a while here.
But I will only ask one or two.
First of all as it relates to your guidance for the year we noticed probably your strongest quarter we have seen in two or three years in the energy business.
I think you did about $1.8 million in adjusted EBITDA.
How important is the energy segment as it relates to raising your guidance? And should we look at this as a more normal quarter of performance relative to what we have been seeing in the past? It did not impact our decision to raise guidance.
So we're basically focused on the construction materials and building parts of products of our business.
It wasn't a factor in raising the guidance.
The issue relative to the energy segments which represent a very small percentage of our revenue is that you could expect that these quarters could be - could fluctuate because we have a fairly small customer base.
And so if you have a difference in shipping just timing can make a difference in a quarter.
Now all that said we're having a very good year in that energy segment.
And so we don't anticipate any particular change in the next two quarters but we were focused on building products and construction materials what we set our guidance.
And something else to remember on energy is because of the small customer set the earnings from quarter to quarter can be pretty chunky.
And so we shouldn't project off of one quarter's performance when it comes to that business.
So we had a good quarter as you point out but we're not predicting that kind of breakout for the balance of the year-- And then a couple of questions on HCM first as it relates to volumes it looks like based on your numbers I think product sales were up roughly 26%.
And based on 5% from price that means 20%-plus from volume.
That is the second quarter in a row of over 20%.
And you're still holding to kind of the high single digit number for the year.
Can you kind of cross that bridge for us? Is that just conservatism or there is a reason why seasonally maybe you have outperformed those kind of volume forecasts? We feel very good about the performance in the 12/31 and the 3/31 one quarters.
You're absolutely right.
We have had very high double-digit increases in volume and we have had very strong pricing.
So what happens of course is because we're a seasonal business is that in the June and the September quarters we expect continued increases and continued strength.
But as a percentage it is probably going to be lower because of the seasonality of the business.
So I think we're being a little bit conservative.
But you're going to end up having a lower percentage just because the denominator gets bigger in - or the 2014 numbers that are bigger in the June and September quarters just because of seasonality of the business.
Got it.
And then the last one just on the supply side you guys have historically maintained you have a lot of headroom between the roughly 8 million tons that you guys collect and the let's say 5 million-plus certainly migrating up from that that you're selling.
Can you talk about number one any impact you're seeing from coal to gas switching at some of your clients? And number two the impact of - now that MATS has finally actually been implemented are you seeing any reduction in available product from either of those drivers? Neither one of those factors are having a material impact on our availability of supply.
Operator with that we will go ahead and conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining us.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.