Good day and welcome to the Headwaters Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There is are slides accompanying today's presentation.
That can be found on the webcast link of the Headwaters Incorporated Web site under Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
This morning's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to the call today it is important remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's Web site Headwaters' Web site or directly from the company.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We enjoyed a positive quarter finishing with trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA of $158 million.
Net income went on double going from $11 million to $23 million in the quarter.
All areas of the income statements improved.
Revenue was up 9% gross profit up 13% operating income up 30% and adjusted earnings per share up 38%.
We enjoyed substantial improvement for our financial performance compared to last year even though we were impacted by very high levels of rain during the quarter.
Texas had more rain than in the past 121 years.
And although June was drier June still rained the 91st wettest June out of 121 years.
And Texas wasn’t alone Illinois Indiana and Ohio set record precipitation levels I June as a mid-west mid-Atlantic and northeast all had rainfall significantly above average.
And even with the extended rainfall in June June was clearly the strongest month in the quarter leading us to believe that underlying demand remained strong and the September quarter will result in further growth.
Also the momentum from June appears to have carried over into July.
Our cash is seasonal and as you can see from our balance sheet cash reports $100 million up $20 million from March 31 and as of July was $110 million.
Clearly we are benefitting from last quarter's refinancing that's interest expense declined by $4 million contributing to free cash flow.
We have identified several bolt-on acquisitions that are now in varying stages of diligence and negotiations.
The potential acquisitions set our strategy perfectly increasing our product position with core customers.
We believe that our cash can be invested in the near-term to increase shareholder value by providing a lift to growth rate and cash flow and also provide an increase to our down cycle base EBITDA substantially slightly reducing our long-term cycle risk.
Now turning to slide 4.
On slide 4 you can see revenues from our building product segment for the third quarter increased by $7.2 million to $147.8 million an increase of 5% over last year's third quarter.
We feel the underlying demand continues to be strong volumes deferred from the third quarter will help sales in the next couple of quarter.
As the economy continues to strengthen there is an increase in demand for trade labor.
If there is a bright spot in a slow economic recovery it maybe that it gives the labor markets time to adjust.
In any event the labor markets can have a tempering effect on construction.
We don’t think that these labor shortages will impact the total demand for our products but rather the speed of growth.
Growth of single family housing starts for our third quarter grew 12% and year-to-date have grown 9%.
We continue to perform in line with the expected growth rates in our products with major exposure to new residential construction and are optimistic as the pace of start seems to be picking up.
The increase in building products revenue will add to a 10% improvement of adjusted EBITDA up for the quarter improvement from $29.6 million last year to $32.7 million this quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins improved by 110 basis points to 22.1% due to operating leverage as well as cost improvements that included benefits from lower energy.
Now turning to slide 5.
We had a record June revenue and adjusted EBITDA in our construction materials segment.
So we've recovered nicely from the rainy impacted April and May.
Revenue for the June 2015 quarter was 91.9 million compared to 80.6 million for the June 2014 resulting in a 14% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provide site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue for the June 2015 quarter was slightly lower year-over-year due to work completed on certain contracts and was 18.5% of our overall revenue for the year compared to -- actually overall revenue for the quarter compared to 22.5% of our overall revenue for the June 2014 quarter.
In 2015 we expect service revenue to be a lower percentage of overall revenue than in 2014 because our fly ash sales are projected to continue to increase.
During the June quarter we experienced an abnormally wet spring in many parts of the country and especially along the Gulf Coast.
Despite this weather there was a slight increase overall in the terms of high value fly ash shift for the June 2015 quarter driven by increases in other parts of the United States.
During that quarter we realized approximately a net 6% year-over-year price increase for higher value fly ash compared to 3% and 5% increases in the prior two quarters.
Traditionally we have implemented price increases in the March quarter.
This year we were able to increase prices in several areas during the December quarter and implemented price increases in other areas during the March quarter.
We have continued to implement additional price increases during the June quarter in several areas and we believe that we are going to be able to implement additional price increases during the September quarter.
The environment for price increases continues to be very favorable.
Gross profit for the June 2015 quarter increased 19% year-over-year to 28.1 million compared to 23.6 million for the June 2014 quarter.
Gross margin increased 130 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2015 quarter increased 13% to 22.3 million compared to 19.7 million for the June 2014 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins for the quarter were 24.3% and would have been higher except we experience a little over $5 million in incremental logistics and low value CCP sales with overall lower margins.
The Portland Cement Association has forecasted 7.5% year-over-year increase in cement consumption and we continue to see strong demand for fly ash as the weather improves.
We also continue to add additional storage throughout our logistics system to capture more winter time ash production and increase our terminal capacity.
We are also continuing to install or restore air technology at certain plants that are or will be injecting activated carbon.
This technology mitigates the negative impact that activated carbon has on high quality flash.
This additional storage and the installation of these restore air units should result in an improved supply as we look out into the future.
The positive momentum from June which was a record month carried nicely over into July the September quarters traditionally are strongest quarter in fly ash and we expect 2015 to be no different.
And now I could turn the call over to Don for our financial update.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with slide 6.
Despite one of the wettest June quarters on record which followed the March quarter with its own weather headwind our business is growing.
As a matter of fact we have grown revenue and adjusted EBITDA 16 consecutive quarters.
In Q3 revenue increased 9% to $243 million including 6% organic growth.
The 9% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in profitability year-over-year as net income increased 117%.
Adjusted EBITDA on the quarter increased to $49 million and adjusted EPS increased 38% to $0.40 per share.
Year-to-date revenue has increased 14% or $77 million to $623 million.
While revenue increased 14% year-to-date adjusted EBITDA increased 23% and adjusted earnings per share increased 88% reflecting our strong operating leverage and cost management efforts.
For the trailing 12 months ended June 30 revenue was $869 million and adjusted EBITDA $158 million.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.1% our all time high margin for the ongoing business.
Our growth in combination with cash generation enabled us to reach a milestone in the quarter.
Our net debt ratio at June 30 was 2.9 times within our target range of 2.5 to 3 times; a goal that was established in 2011 had a time when our net debt ratio exceeded 6 times.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
As noted revenue increased 9% year-over-year including a 6% organic growth.
That 9% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in year-over-year profitability this quarter.
The 9% increase in revenue dropped through for a 13% increase in gross profit driving a 30% increase in operating income and combined with a $4 million decrease in interest expense resulted in 117% increase in net income.
Construction materials posted 14% revenue growth due in part to a strong pricing environment and modest volume growth.
We also picked up approximately $5 million of revenue growth from activities like logistics and sales of low value CCPs which added to the bottomline although at lower profit margins.
Building products revenue growth was up 5% and was solid especially when you consider the amount of rain throughout the northeast and central U.S.
Interest expense for the quarter was $8 million $4 million lower than Q3 2014 which reflects our refinancing and debt repayments which we executed in the March 2015 quarter.
Now let's move to slide 8 to take a close look at the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date the topline has grown more than 14% or $77 million.
The 14% growth rate includes 8% organic growth.
Our strong operating leverage can be seen in the growth of operating income as 14% revenue growth resulted in an 80% increase in operating income year-over-year.
The improved performance in 2015 over 2014 is evident and our net income as well.
Year-to-date net income grew from a loss of $1.2 million in 2014 to a net income of $29 million in 2015 excluding the $25 million of non-routine costs resulting from our March financing activities.
And our adjusted EBITDA or EPS rather grew 88% year-over-year from $0.33 per share in 2014 to $0.62 per share in 2015.
We ended the June quarter with substantial NOLs and tax credits.
As you know our net amortizable deferred tax assets are fully reserve for GAAP purposes.
We ended the June quarter with an after-tax valuation reserve of $120 million.
It’s possible that we will release a substantial portion of our remaining deferred tax valuation reserves in fiscal Q4.
If that release occurs we will record a substantial book tax benefit in the September quarter which will impact GAAP earnings but have no impact on cash taxes.
After the release of the valuation reserves we’ll record GAAP expense at an estimated effective tax rate which we would expect to be in the range of 35% to 39%.
While our cash taxes rather will remain relatively low as we use our tax attributes like NOLs and tax credits to shelter earnings.
Now let’s move to slide 9 and talk about 2015 guidance.
Our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA through June 30 2015 was $158 million.
With the strong performance year-to-date and positive outlook for the remainder of the year we are reaffirming our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $155 million to $170 million.
That range represents growth of between 12% and 23% over fiscal 2014 levels.
One other item I would mentioned is that we intensify our universal shelf registration statement later this week.
As you know these universal shelf registration statements expire after three years and our last one expired in February.
With that I’ll turn the call over to the operator to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Rob Hansen from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
The first question I had is just on the weather impact.
If you have any quantification of the lost EBITDA or lost revenue that you think you lost in the quarter? And was this primarily on the block side where you are probably more guaranteed to get it back because it’s commercial related and how is that kind of played out? So we don’t have a precise calculation but it’s in the millions of dollars.
So it’s on the margin it clearly impacted our adjusted EBITDA performance.
We did -- about 20% of revenue originates in taxes and that’s where our blocks regional business is centered and clearly had an impact what we saw is exactly is as you indicated it started to comeback in June.
And that's carried over very nicely into July.
We were also impacted in fly ash and in other parts for the country and our building products because they were a lot of range particularly in June in the Mid-West Northeast and Mid-Atlantic States.
So the impact was fairly broad but we are seeing that a lot of that comeback in July.
Got it okay.
So just to clarify the millions of dollars of impact that’s on the EBITDA line or the top line? Well to be true in both but on the EBITDA line that’s what I was referring to.
And then in your press release you mentioned acquisitions.
I don’t think I’ve seen that in your press release from you guys in a while.
So I just wanted to see it -- do you have anything in the pipeline now and has anything changed on the target size and whatnot? There hasn’t been any change in our strategy.
And so really no change in our target size.
We’re looking for bolt-on acquisitions that we can fairly easily assimilate into the company.
And so there hasn’t been much change there.
I think the reason that we put in the press release is as we went through a period where we didn’t have really active negotiations in place.
But I think that’s what changed in conjunction with our growing cash balance.
So one of the things that we wanted to communicate is that we feel we have some excellent opportunities to deploy our cash in a way that will grow our EBITDA revenue and create value.
So that's the reason I think its in the press release is because the pipeline seems to filled up a bit and we’re in a position where we take advantage of those opportunities.
Great.
So I guess how many kind of deals are you kind of looking at right now? Well there in really different stages so there its -- we just finished our quarterly board meeting and we were looking at in briefing our board there were 7 or 8 in our pipeline.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Kirk in the press release you talked about on HCM a 5.2 million in revenue from low-margin activities logistics and some sale of low-value CCPs.
Is that more one-time or is that just a period mix given the softness from the volumes related to moisture? No its more if its the reason that we -- the reason we disclose that is because it made up a fair share of our revenue growth and our adjusted EBITDA margins at 24% is very good.
Those margins are really good but they would have been better if we would not have had that $5 million lower margin revenue.
So that's reasonably disclosed as because our margins are really pretty strong and as we continue to grow our sale of fly ash and get price increases those margin should continue to be very strong.
So that was really the -- we didn’t disclose it to talk about any trend or anything like that it just a quarterly impact kind of thing that kind of -- it kind of mass a little bit the real strength in the underlying adjusted EBITDA margins in our flash segment.
That's a nice segway to my second question.
I guess the -- if it's not near peak it's probably the highest you’ve had in a number of years and it sounds from others that have reported in the end market that there's some fairly good shot that that margin has room to get higher.
Is that fair? Are you confident or do you see that as well? We typically have our best margins in the June or September quarter because that's when the marketing and a flash in construction season occurs.
This year is going to be similar we’re going to have our strongest margins in the June and September quarters and that also evidence because the services business is down to 18.5% of revenue in the quarter and those service revenues are lower margin revenue so as they become a lower percentage then you are going to end up with higher overall margins.
It sounds like the team there is pretty much focused on pushing price which is something you laid out multiple times this year.
So it's good to see.
Switching over to light building products I wanted to touch on the 4% growth so I think was the number reported.
It sounded like the majority of that was volume versus price.
And if so could you maybe articulate what you see in terms of go-forward it is a particular business unit that's going to be stronger going forward or consistent with what you just reported? Just want to get a little more color on the 4% growth? The one other things that is occurring is that then we talked a little bit about block growth was tempered in April and May because of the rain it came back very strong in June and that momentum is carrying over into July.
We have a backlog really in the Texas market for new school construction so very much oriented towards commercial and institutional and there is a backlog of projects.
So we feel very good about the prospects in the Texas market with our commercial and institutional growth into the September quarter.
Our stone unit has more exposure to new residential construction than our other products sets.
And as far as the domestic growth is concerned we expect that growth to continue.
We have a little bit of issue with the strong dollar and our exports into Europe and into Canada and those.
So our overall stone revenues have been tempered a little bit because export revenues have been impacted by the strong dollar.
I think that our siding accessories some of our new products we’re having a good growth in our cellular PVC trimboard products.
And we’re getting some good growth in our specialty siding products since we’ve introduced new products there and we’re seeing traction.
So we’re pretty comfortable that growth is going to continue in those and the primarily repair and remodel products and we think that growth is going to continue in those repair and remodel products.
Our exports there also have been tempered a little bit by the strong dollar.
So we had a little bit of pressure on exports.
I think that our roofing products there hasn’t been although you hear in the news how global warming is going to cause increased storms and the intensity of storms and anyone is invested in the roofing markets know that there haven’t been significant storms.
But we’re engaged in this niche products that we believe or taking share from the commodity products.
And so it’s a space that we’re quite excited about and feed good about the growth there.
This may be the first time in several years but the shift or the exposure on the international front how should we start to think about that as an impact going forward? And maybe what percentage of revenue or end market is now the nominal U.S.
market? Yes just generally the international sales are not particularly materially to us.
So Dan has got the precise.
Sure.
Alan broad strokes when you look at our 2014 sales for example.
Roughly 92% of our sales were in the U.S..
For the remaining 80% about 4% was to Canada and about 3% was to Europe and again in broad strokes.
So clearly the vast majority of our revenues our U.S.
based and then another 4% to the next-door neighbor up in Canada.
So it’s not a driver certainly a driver in our business we are a U.S.
based business to be sure.
The next question comes from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
First congratulations on that leverage under 3%.
I know it’s been a long haul but you guys are doing a nice job so congratulations on that.
Coming back to I guess some of the Al’s points in a little bit finer detail Kirk how is Kleer? As that business line is branded how is that running in your expectations? We had a lot of damage in the Northeast and Midwest on ice dams so a lot of composite product that’s going back on houses.
Do you think your share is keeping up with the level of activity out there? And then also within siding accessories the old Capco shutters business how is that performing as exterior demand in styles has shifted? Are you happy with some of the SKU-level metrics that you see for both of those? And I’ve got a follow-up.
We feel very good about our position in the cellular PVC trim market.
I think that we are maintaining our share I think we provided some leadership in how that product is.
So I think we provided some leadership in the manufacturing of that product and we’ve been able to drive our margins from like 11% range up to 20% range.
So we feel very good about our positioning with the trimboard.
I think on the inside accessories what we are seeing strength in addition to trim we’re seeing strength in our specialty siding products.
So those are growth areas.
As far as shutters [indiscernible] blocks those continue to be high margin products and we’ve not seen a lot of volume growth there we did get a little bit of price increase so we feel very good about that those legacy products.
Okay.
And if I could just switch to Don for a second -- Don with lower petroleum is there a way to sensitize any sort of cost of sales savings in the basis point round perhaps that we can expect if oil stays down here for an extended period of time? Probably the best way I can give you sense is to tell you what we’re using and let you model let you think the effect could be so if you think about polypropylene we use about 18 million pounds a year.
PVC we used about 30 million pounds a year and diesel fuel largely in the building product side of our business we’ll be using about a 1 million gallons a year.
So you can get a pretty good sense is to what the potential costs savings are what your view line what those input cost might do.
Yes I know that's very helpful Don.
And then lastly Kirk so on price increases on the ash side another great performance.
It's been sequentially up every quarter this year.
How long can the Street go? I know Portland cement macro is good.
I know your share of ash is good.
But realistically how much more price do you think we've got in the sequential quarters? And I know it's a tough question.
But it seems like you've done a great job but how long does it continue? Thanks guys.
I think that only continue to be an opportunity because we’re now at the point in a cycle where Portland cement is going to start experiencing some shortages which for the most part will be covered with imports but that's going to help us drive fly ash sales both volume as well as price there will be also be an opportunity close some of the gap between Portland cement pricing and fly ash pricing.
So we feel very good into the future.
Our next question comes from Rohit Seth from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just got a question on the M&amp;A pipeline would you guys be willing to move away from exterior product focus into more interior products? In the -- for the right opportunity the answer of that question is yes.
But it does have to be the right opportunity for us it’s not that's it won’t be easy to do that but we will do it in the right circumstances.
Okay.
And if you did do a deal between now and say January does that take away from your plans to reduce debt? I know you have a callable loan here in January.
Or would you just look to refinance that one? I think we have that flexibility and so that's the decision we’ll make later in the year but clearly we’ve got the ability to do either one.
Okay.
And then on your guidance I don't know if I'm reading this right but did you increase the low end of the flash price guidance? We didn’t I think what you are probably recalling is our guidance early in the year was 3% to 5% and last quarter we had changed that 4% to 5%.
So what you are seeing is consistent with what we talked about in March.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King and Associates.
Please go ahead.
Don you just mentioned PVC diesel polypropylene; in the end products that those materials are used in are you seeing any pricing pressure from customers or competitive pricing pressures to pass those lower costs through? Generally no.
I think that our team did a very-very good job helping our customers understand the value proposition that we bring with our products.
And with that we have not seen significant pressure to reduce price as a result of some of our input costs being down.
Keep in mind the focus of the questions has been around those raw material inputs like poly and PVC we have some cost inflation in other areas like wages.
Now I would not call those areas of inflation outsized but it's not all good guys when it comes to our cost structure and we help our customers understand that.
So long in short we do not typically see requests come through for price reductions.
Good.
And the energy technology business if I understand it correctly it's not a strategic part of the business longer term it appear to take a step back in the quarter.
What is the intermediate outlook for that business in terms of profitability? I think we should finish the year with positive adjusted EBITDA and positive cash flow it would be there will not be a rollout there but it's not a drain on our cash resources.
And we think that that level should not -- that level of profitability should continue until we are able to get additional customers that will put us in a position that we have been in.
So keep in mind when you think about that non-course is it could be chunky from quarter to quarter in terms of revenue and EBITDA.
But overall for the year as Kirk said we are expecting near breakeven EBITDA near breakeven cash flow even though from quarter to quarter you might see some minor but more significant shift swings year-over-year.
Okay.
Thanks Don.
And my last question for I think it's for you Kirk.
The bolt on acquisitions under evaluation could you tell me how many of them are the subject of an auction process or are they more private discussions between you and the businesses for sale? Must have under private discussions.
Our next question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
So two quick follow ups.
First I want to follow up on Al's question on international.
I guess I was a little surprised to see that in the light building products segment.
By your count I think you said 8% of total revenue is international and I want to say it was about a 2.5% headwind in the quarter.
So was there I don't know a large order last year where you were lapping or was there something unique that happened this quarter because that seems a lot more than just kind of an FX issue? I think the reason again there is not that we kind of highlighted that a little bit in the quarter is just primarily because of the nature of the quarter and generally it does not make that much different to our performance.
But this quarter was a little bit unique primarily because of the rain.
And that rain tampered our topline and so it had a little more importance this quarter than it has in the past.
Got it.
And then real quick on the HCM side you are obviously pushing pricing across your portfolio.
Can you talk maybe about any regional differences where you are seeing the best ability to get price versus others just so we can kind of same size where the opportunity is? I think generally we have been able to get price increases to some degree across the board.
It does vary but it's hard to say even varies in a region of United States because it really varies in communities.
To a large degree the pricing is more local than national and more local than regional.
So I think we are getting the pricing is kind of consistent with the - on pricing.
Okay.
I guess my last follow up there and then I will drop off would be are there regions where you now are pretty close close to parity pricing with Portland cement versus other ones where you have a bigger gap to close? Or I realize it’s very regional but I’m wondering if you can give any color there.
One little piece of color that makes some sense is the further you have to transport the ash the closer you are to Portland cement and enterprising.
So in the California market for example that’s why we will be closes to Portland cement pricing because we have to import all of the ash into California.
So the transportation costs are higher and we are able to recover those costs in our pricing so we’re closer to Portland cement.
And our final question comes from Charlie Smith from Fort Pitt Capital.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the excellent operating leverage in the quarter.
From your comments it sounds like it could’ve been even better.
Quick question on fly ash pricing.
Consistent increases in prices sort of beg the question is there any relationship potentially between supply shortages due to shutting down all these coal plants and the current pricing environment? Could that become a problem eventually? We don’t think that we’re seen very much impacted on the business from the shutdown of coal-fired power plants.
Generally we get high quality ash from a larger more efficient newer plan and they have not been they basically they don’t get shutdown.
And so we’re not saying a tremendous impact from the shutdown in the coal-fired power plant.
And we don’t think that’s what’s driving the pricing.
Okay.
Quick question on the stone business.
You mentioned 8% of your sales overseas.
Is that mostly in the stone segment? In stone and siding accessories are the two product groups that have the bulk of our international sales in the building products group.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We’d like to thank you for joining our call this morning.
In closing we continued to experience positive momentum in both of our business segments.
Our June quarter ended with strong performance and year-to-date revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
And we look forward to strong finish to our fiscal 2015.
With that we will conclude today’s call.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.