Welcome to the Headwaters Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Inc.
fourth quarter and fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link on the Headwaters Inc.
website under the Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Inc.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Today's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to the call today it is important to remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' Annual and Quarterly Reports filed with the SEC.
These filings are readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the Company.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Thank you Sharon.
Our fiscal year 2015 was very positive for Headwaters and every meaningful metric trended up.
Revenue was up 13% gross profit up 20% operating income up 53% and adjusted EBITDA up 20%.
Highlights for the year included strong fly ash pricing and substantial increased at volume over a 200 basis point improvement in siding accessories adjusted EBITDA margin.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margins were up 110 basis points and exceeded our prior peak.
We reduced cash interest expense by 34% to a run rate of $31 million interest expense coverage of more than four times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times.
Our adjusted earnings-per-share increased by 61% to $1.13.
We completed one bolt-on acquisition at the end of the September quarter and have nearly completed diligence on two additional potential transactions.
We also have a number of additional potential targets that have been identified.
Risk is minimal because of the close adjacency to our existing business operations allowing us to easily integrate bolt-on acquisitions.
We believe that we have developed a platform into which we can continue to pursue small acquisitions and the transactions that are currently in the due diligence process should result in strong synergies and margin expansion.
We finished the year with 9% organic growth and nearly 11% in the fourth quarter.
So growth was accelerating.
Revenue in October suggests that the strong organic growth will continue into 2016.
Based on the positive momentum built in 2015 and our view of continued improvement in our end markets we're initiating adjusted EBITDA guidance in the $175 million to $190 million range.
On slide 4 you can see revenues from our building product segment for the fiscal year increased by $51 million to $524 million an increase of 11% over last year.
Revenues increased 5% organically for the year despite soft international sales which were impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar softness in Canada and some overseas markets.
Growth was widespread as all four of our major product groups had revenue growth in fiscal year 2015.
Product introductions helped the growth as our new products have been well-received in the market.
For example our new specialty siding product that we introduced in the March quarter resulted in sales that more than doubled our first-year expectations.
Our new higher-margin block products contributed to the second straight year of greater than 100 basis points adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in the block group.
We continue to look for ways to grow the business both organically and through acquisitions as we offer best-in-class products to meet growth in customer demand.
Underlying fundamentals of our end markets continue to be strong.
Single-family housing starts grew 10% during our fiscal year.
Builders have experienced shortages in skill labor and other construction labor like drywallers and it has resulted in a more gradual recovery.
But demand remains very strong for construction and for our products used in new residential construction.
Growth accelerated in the September quarter as starts grew 15%.
We anticipate strong growth in 2016 in new residential construction markets as the labor markets adjust to demand and we rebuild necessary skills.
Our Texas block product group is performing exceptionally well enjoying strong demand for its product.
Its largest exposure is to the commercial and institutional end markets.
We have seen minimal to no impact from lower oil prices.
We completed a small bolt-on acquisition in our block product group in September.
The acquisition will strengthen our market position in the Austin market and should be quickly integrated into our block operation.
The increase in building products 2015 revenues led to a 16% improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the year improving from $88 million in 2014 to $102 million in 2015.
Margins improved by 90 basis points to 19.5% due to operating leverage in several product groups benefiting from lower raw material transportation and energy costs which more than offset cost inflation in other areas.
Now we'll shift to our construction material segment on slide 5.
You can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with record revenue of $352 million compared to $309 million in 2014 a 14% year-over-year increase.
Revenue for the September 2015 quarter was $111 million compared to revenue of $98 million for the September 2014 quarter a 14% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provides site services to many of our utility clients.
While these services typically have lower margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal as construction spending.
Site service revenue for 2015 was down at the beginning of the year as certain contracts were completed but trended flat on a year-over-year basis for the September quarter.
Site service revenue was 21% of our overall revenue for the year and 18% for the September quarter.
The smaller percentage of service revenue to total segment revenue was due to completed contracts earlier in the year but more importantly it was because of the growth in the sale of high-quality CCPs.
Tons of high-quality CCPs sold for 2015 increased over 10% year-over-year.
Total product revenue increased during the year driven by increased volume and gross price increases that netted 5% after revenue share with suppliers.
September 2015 quarter product revenues increased 17% year-over-year due to both the increase in tons shipped and price increases.
There have been some similar impacts from labor and equipment shortages in the concrete projects similar to what has occurred in new residential construction.
Again these shortages are being addressed.
And as they are addressed additional projects will be completed and demand should remain strong throughout 2016.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 increased 21% year-over-year to a record level of $81 million compared to $67 million in 2014.
We finished the year with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23% an increase of 130 basis points year-over-year.
The improved margins for the year resulted from a shift in product mix and continued cost reductions through continuous improvement.
Adjusted EBITDA for the September 2015 quarter increased 15% to $28.9 million compared to $25.2 million for the September 2014 quarter.
We're starting out 2015 positively.
October overall was a relatively mild weather month despite rain in the Texas market.
We feel very positive about continued strong demand for fly ash and associated higher pricing.
We're seeing cement price increases being communicated to the market and are watching each market closely to determine where cement pricing will settle.
We expect a similar effect on flash pricing in many of our markets.
We're excited about the year that we just completed and look forward to a very positive 2016.
I would now like to turn the time over to Don Newman.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'll start with slide 6.
We finished the year with a strong quarter with sales of $273 million operating income of $41 million and adjusted EBITDA of $59 million increases of 11% 26% and 16% respectively over Q4 2014.
Our topline growth was almost exclusively organic as all of our segments showed healthy year-over-year increases.
Adjusted EPS was $0.51 per share up 38% from Q4 2014.
The adjusted EPS does not include $97 million of tax benefits associated with the release of deferred tax valuation reserves that we recorded this quarter.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
This quarter was the 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth a clear indicator of sustained momentum.
As noted revenue increased 11% year-over-year substantially all of which was organic growth.
That 11% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in year-over-year profitability this quarter.
The 11% increase in revenue dropped through for a 15% increase in gross profit driving a 26% increase in operating income; and combined with a $4 million decrease in interest expense resulted in a 60% increase in pretax income from continuing operations.
Construction materials posted 14% revenue growth due to a strong pricing environment and modest volume growth.
And building products revenue grew 5% in part due to continued strength in our block business.
Our energy technology segment had a strong quarter due largely to the timing of HCAT shipments.
Interest expense for the quarter was $8 million approximately $4 million lower than 2014 which reflects the refinancing and debt repayment activities in the March 2015 quarter.
Let's move to slide 8 and take a closer look at the full-year results.
Revenue for the full year was nearly $900 million increasing $104 million and 13% over 2014.
The 13% growth includes 9% organic growth.
Our operating leverage can be seen in the growth of operating income as 13% revenue growth resulted in a 53% increase in operating income year-over-year.
Interest expense of $64 million includes approximately $25 million of charges related to our March refinancing and debt repayment.
Excluding those nonroutine interest charges our interest expense actually dropped from $46 million in 2014 to $39 million in 2015 reflecting our lower debt interest rates which now average just 5.2%.
Income from continuing operations was $132 million in 2015 versus approximately $16 million in 2014 an increase of approximately $116 million.
Excluding the tax valuation reserve release and March financing charges income from continuing operations was approximately $60 million an increase of approximately 264% over 2014 income of 16.5% -- $16.5 million rather.
Adjusted EPS which excludes the tax reserve release financing impacts and other non-routine items grew 61% year-over-year from $0.70 per share in 2014 to $1 13 per share in 2015.
Now let's spend a few minutes talking about income taxes.
We released $97 million of deferred tax valuation reserves in September.
That decision reflects our financial performance over the past several years as well as our outlook for the business.
We ended the quarter with pretax NOLs of $162 million and tax credit carryforwards of $25 million as well as a number of other net deferred tax assets which we estimate could shield approximately $250 million of future pretax profits.
The GAAP accounting rules around tax provisions are pretty complex and will result in our recognizing tax expense closer to statutory tax rates.
That is expected to be much higher than our cash tax expense as we're using those tax shields.
Our cash taxes will remain in the range of $4 million in 2016 largely due to state taxes.
Now let's move to slide 10 and talk about 2016 guidance.
We're carrying positive momentum into 2016.
We're initiating guidance for 2016 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $175 million to $190 million.
Key drivers to our 2016 performance will include continuing recovery in the residential housing and RNR end markets as well as demand for fly ash and favorable pricing dynamics for our high-quality fly ash.
Our guidance assumes growth in single-family starts in the high-single digits RNR percentage growth in the low-single digits and percentage growth for high-quality fly ash volumes and net prices in the mid-single digits.
Cost inflation in PVC polypropylene cement aggregates and transportation could also impact our 2016 performance.
We saw our adjusted EBITDA margins expand 90 basis points to 18.5% in fiscal 2015 and would expect modest expansion to margins in 2016 as well.
CapEx is expected to be in the range of $45 million to $50 million.
But I would add that we're seeing opportunity for good returns north of 20% on investments in growth CapEx beyond the $45 million to $50 million.
So there is a possibility that CapEx spend could be higher.
Cash interest expense is expected to be in the range of $31 million and book interest expense to be approximately $33 million.
We anticipate cash taxes as I said to be in the range of $4 million for 2016.
GAAP taxes are expected to be in the range of 39% of pretax income in 2016 excluding discrete items and 35% after discrete items.
So with that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we will take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question comes from Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
So yes the first question I just wanted to ask was a little bit about your guidance.
And kind of talking about how you kind of came to those general assumptions.
Right? And specifically on the single-family up high-single digits I think this year we're probably going to be double digits and I think most of you are looking for double digits next year as well.
And then also kind of the same thing on the RNR growth as well.
So just wanted to see how you kind of came at those numbers.
I think that the numbers generally reflect the seasonality of our year.
So the bulk of our performance is in the June and September quarters.
And so we're entering into the December and March quarters.
And due to seasonality those are our softest quarters.
So we're at the beginning of that period of time.
And I think that those that are assumptions reflect that conservative guidance because we're at the beginning of our year and our first two quarters have that -- are the lower end of our performances in the first two quarters.
Okay.
And then let's say things kind of improve a little more than you expect should we expect the drop-down to be in that 45% range? Or are there going to be any type of growth investments made in the business that would impact that and make it lower? I don't think that we would expect -- first from a contribution margin standpoint we're still in that same range in the plus-40% range.
And of course as you're looking from 2015 to 2016 we would expect to see some inflation in our fixed cost structure which would work against that contribution margin.
But our contribution margins we expect to remain intact.
And as we continue to see topline growth we will see nice drop-through to the bottom line.
And then another question just related to the guidance.
Just on the commercial kind of infrastructure piece what are you guys kind of assuming there in terms of your fly ash volumes? I think that a lot of on the commercial and institutional construction that relates to the Texas market.
And we had a -- we had very strong growth in 2015.
We expect that to continue into 2016.
We're very optimistic about the commercial and institutional growth in the Texas market.
Infrastructure generally I think that we had a record year in 2015.
I think we will have another record year in 2016.
We ended up with very solid volume increases and very solid price increases.
And we think that those characteristics are going to carry over into 2016.
One last question just on your free cash flow I think you got it expected at about $85 million for this year.
What are you going to do with the cash flow -- I think you've already got around $30 million to $40 million earmarked on your balance sheet for acquisitions.
Right? So assuming that gets spent you'd still end up with a pretty nice cash balance at the end of next year.
What could you do that? And then also you mentioned the CapEx piece adding some more into that what would those projects be for? Thanks.
I think that we're going into this year with a high-quality set of potential bolt-on acquisitions.
We probably have more potential than we've ever had at the beginning of a year.
And so I think that we will be able to invest that cash and generate margin expansion for our different product groups and excellent returns on those investments.
From a CapEx perspective we're also seeing some new product development that we think we can have as -- short of a two-year payback on some of these CapEx investments.
So we're in the very positive position of having to allocate these resources to projects that should produce quite high returns on the investments and create value for shareholders.
The question comes from Rohit Seth with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Just on the building products group for the fourth quarter can you comment on how the different product performed? And then could you just reflect on what you think the market growth is in each of those products in 2016? You guys take any shares any change in the mix there? Sure.
As I've indicated the group that probably performed the strongest was our commercial and institutional block product group in the Texas market.
We continue to see a very strong demand for our products in Texas.
And one of the things that we're doing is that we're emphasizing the specialty blocks and those products have higher margins.
One of our CapEx investments is to expand our capacity in that Texas market.
And we're working right now to put a new facility in place because we see growth not just in the typical grade block but in the specialty block products.
So we're excited about that.
Our roofing product set performed well during the year.
We're anticipating that that product group will grow in 2016.
It is -- it's predominantly repair and remodel so 80% 85% of repair and remodel.
But we're in these specialty niches that are growing faster than the end markets; we're basically taking share from asphalt products.
And so we expect that to continue into 2016.
Our stone group has more exposure to new residential construction than our other group.
And so we're clearly benefiting not just from single-family but we had some very good results in multifamily particularly in the Northeast this last year.
And we anticipate that we will continue to get good growth in 2016.
We're introducing some new products in our stone group and we expect those new products to be well-received in the marketplace and drive additional growth.
Siding accessories and our specialty siding product that we introduced in the spring our green product as I indicated in my remarks the -- it was well-received in the marketplace after the launch of last spring.
We're expanding that product line and expect that to drive growth in 2016.
So we're very optimistic about our product set our market share and being able to take advantage of improving end markets.
Okay.
And then on the guidance for construction materials how do you guys think about volume in the first half? You guys had some great numbers last year.
You said you were guiding up mid-single digits.
How has that progressed in the year? Yes I think we had 20% growth in the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters this last year.
So you're absolutely correct.
The growth probably won't be that strong but -- because 20% is very high.
Our volumes correlate very strongly with Portland Cement.
And so in the analysis that we've done we have a very high R squared factor for our fly ash volumes.
So I think that we should perform -- in the markets in which we're competing we should perform at least as well as Portland Cement.
And so that's basically in that mid-single digit range.
Okay.
And then in that business if we were to get a federal highway bill -- and I think there's some talk about California working on a long-term bill I know that's an important market for you and Texas is voting today on increasing funding -- have you guys thought about how that affects your business? Is there any assumptions there in the volume side in your guidance? No I think those trends and the actions taken at the federal level and at the state levels will be upside to our guidance.
Okay.
And then there's no M&amp;A baked into your guidance as well on the building products or the fly ash? No.
Okay.
And then did you -- I might have missed it -- did you comment on what the volume growth was in the fourth quarter in fly ash and the pricing? Yes.
The pricing was the strongest it's ever been.
I think it was about 3% in the first quarter last year and we finished in the fourth quarter at net 7%.
So again you have to gross that up for the revenue share.
But the net increase in the fourth quarter was 7%.
So it went from -- through the quarters 3% 5% 6% and 7%.
So it continually got stronger throughout the year.
And that really bodes well of course for 2016.
Volume was in the -- was right in between low-single digits and mid-single digits.
The next question comes from John Quealy with Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Kirk just coming back to the questions on ash.
I'm sorry -- cumulatively what have been price increases across the business? I thought we were -- through Q3 I thought we were at like 14% or something a little bit better than that? On fly ash of course I have this little bit of confusion.
So we talk about net price increase and gross price increase.
The net is the one that we talk about most because we do have an increase in revenue share.
And so when we raise prices we're sharing that increase in price with our utility suppliers.
And the net price is important because that's what ends up impacting our EBITDA margins.
And so in the fourth quarter our net price increase was 7%.
And that is really the highest John it's ever been.
We've never experienced higher pricing than we did in the fourth quarter.
You could use a 40% revenue share to gross that up.
And so that's basically where we had ended up for the year -- and back in the fourth quarter.
And so in the positive commentary on the first-half pricing is that just lagging market conditions Kirk? I mean obviously seasonally we slow down shipments a little bit and go into a net storage capability.
But give us a little bit more detail if you could on the dynamics about why you feel confident on price in a seasonally weak period? Yes.
The reason that we're going to have strong price comparisons year-over-year in the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters because what we're communicating to you is a comparison of our weighted average prices in the -- now in the 2016 -- like in the 12/31/15 quarter our first 2016 quarter will compare our average weighted price in that 12/31/15 quarter with the 12/31/14 quarter and because we have had price increases throughout from the spring through September those price increases will roll over or wrap around into the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters.
And so it is -- we would anticipate strong year-over-year price comparisons in those two quarters.
The one thing that could change that is if we get really good volume.
I mean it's -- because it's a weighted average volume could impact that.
But there is -- I mean I think that all of the indications would be that we will have very strong price comparisons in 12/31 and 3/31 quarters.
I understand.
Is there any plans for new price increases to -- I understand the math from time weighted and all that but moving forward -- no.
You'd have to wait until the summer to figure out if you'd raise prices.
Is that right? Well we anticipate raising prices.
We think the market is very strong.
We would anticipate price increases in the spring and into the early summer months as you'd typically find in the business.
And so I think we're going to get good price increases again.
And so back to the light building products or what used to be called the light building product segment.
When we were out at Clear Kirk you'd mentioned that that business is benefiting from low petroleum-derived raws and I think you gave sort of an explanation of perhaps that's a bottom.
Can you talk about how much benefit you got year-on-year in fiscal 2015 from a lower oil price? And what sort of raws are you building in? I assume they are a negative headwind in that margin in 2016.
I think that we're anticipating in 2016 that the benefit that we have gained and really there are two benefits.
One is there's lower prices because of lower raw material costs but the other thing that we have done is we have improved the quality of the product.
And as we have improved the quality of the product it's allowed us to reduce the cost of the product.
And we anticipate that those improvements will continue into 2016 and it won't be as strong of a tailwind in 2016 as it was in 2015 but we think that it won't be a headwind either.
Just to give you an idea of quantum if you look at the fact that PVC for example is dropping through the year and then hit a floor and we experienced probably something in the range of $1 million of year-over-year cost savings because of that decrease just in broad strokes.
And so obviously we don't know for sure what's going to happen with PVC prices going forward if they remain at this level then that will continue to be a good guide to us in terms of additional margin in our products.
And if the price starts going up again what that will mean is in your year-over-year comparisons they're -- it depends on how quickly it would go up whether or not it would be a year-over-year negative or if it would be kind of year-over-year flat because as I said the prices were decreasing during the year.
Does that help some? Yes.
No it does.
Thanks for giving some bounds there.
Then my last question.
So on M&amp;A sounds like there's a couple things close Kirk and Don.
So it looks like debt is what about all-in 5% paper? Can you talk about what you'd do to the cap structure to deal with those acquisitions? Congrats on again on getting the EBITDA down from just some really high levels four or five years ago.
But walk us through if you would what we should be exiting debt to EBITDA assuming that we've got a couple deals done in the year.
Thanks guys.
First when you reduce your cash by investing in these acquisitions that has an impact on the debt to EBITDA ratio.
But I think as we have continued growth I don't think you're -- I think we're still going to be in that 2.5 to 3 range even if we do acquisitions.
We feel very positive about that.
We will use the cash off the balance sheet first to do acquisitions.
If we have bolt-on acquisitions that exceed our cash abilities then we would probably turn to our bank debt and increase our bank debt a little bit.
So it -- we're very -- we feel very fortunate to be in the position we're in to do these transactions to be able to do them efficiently and to invest this cash and remove it from our balance sheet and invest it in high-return operations.
Our objective has been with the capital structure is to get it fixed and put ourselves in a position where we've got -- had good options.
And we're in that position.
So we exited the year at a 2.5 times.
And as you look at the opportunities and the cash flow generation potential that we're looking at for 2016 it wouldn't be crazy to think about us exiting the year at something at a similar multiple.
But it all depends upon our putting that money to work through either M&amp;A activity or through nice returning CapEx investment.
So they are good options that we're facing.
The next question comes from John Baugh with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
My first question is substitution rate.
Do you have any color on fly ash whether you're seeing that number move up -- I don't know when you get data or insight or intel on that? And then should there be any expectation going out in time that you might see your numbers grow a little faster than Portland Cement? So with the data we get from the trade association the ACA comes in December.
So December of 2015 we'll get the 2014 data so it lags about a year.
And so the only thing we can speak to is really anecdotal evidence.
And what we would expect would happen is that the trend in 2014 basically would have flattened.
And I think what we're seeing is say in 2015 is an increase in that substitution rate.
If you go back to 2003 through 2006 during that period of an upcycle there was an increase in the substitution rate.
And we don't have any reason to believe that that won't happen again.
So we would anticipate that in this upcycle as we near the capacity of U.S.
production of Portland Cement what we would probably see is a pickup in the substitution rate.
And then staying on fly ash could you speak to storage new contracts utilities or -- just speak to me about the supply of fly ash update us again on where you are in sort of selling or utilization of your supply and whether your supply out into the future is growing.
Thank you.
So from 2007 that's when we peaked as far as the number of tons sold at prior peak through 2015 we increased the supply of our high-quality CCPs by about 1.5 million tons.
And so even during this period of time when there's been a lot of pressure on coal and on coal-fired power plants we have been able to increase supply.
And we've increased supply through additional contracts through storage through our RestoreAir technology through blending and we think that those tools will allow us to continue to increase supply.
So we believe in 2016 our supply is going to increase.
As we implement our RestoreAir technology at additional facilities what that technology does is it improves the quality of fly ash.
And we will invest in additional storage.
And so we believe that our supply is going to continue to grow in 2016.
You do have to -- the only caveat is that it is a local and regional market and so we have to continue to focus on a local basis to increase supply.
So are we still turnaround I don't know 60% 70% or something of what we're selling versus what we theoretically have as supply available to sell? Or help us with that ratio.
We're selling about 75% of the seasonally adjusted available supply.
Okay.
And my final question is simply -- are there any signs in any area of your business of a recent sequential slowdown? I understand the seasonality part.
Getting a lot of mixed signals there out there both on housing and on some of the infrastructure side.
Any signs of a crack anywhere? So I think we're seeing the lack of skilled workers in the repair and remodel and in new residential construction.
So that is having a tempering effect on many projects.
We have seen occasions when in the infrastructure side of the business where there haven't been enough Ready Mix trucks to really get the concrete to the project.
And so you see things you see issues like that they are clearly occurring.
When we went through the downcycle there was a lot of labor that left the industry.
It's going to take time for the labor markets to adjust to the upcycle.
And so I think we feel really good about new residential construction next year.
I think that by and large we're going to have improvements that are consistent with or better than the assumptions that were in our guidance.
So we continue to feel pretty good about the end markets John.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just want to follow-up on the commentary about modest volumes on the fly ash side in the fourth quarter.
And secondly how that relates to maybe the pricing number that you shared? And I guess if we extrapolate with what you're saying is you're encouraging us to include something with the seven handle in terms of the out-year or the current year for pricing in this business.
Could you square those out? Yes.
So on the fly ash prices what we're talking about -- the assumption that was in our model was up mid-single digits.
And so we had -- in the fourth quarter we were up 7% net.
And so what we're talking about is up mid-single digits net price increase for 2016.
I think that we're going to -- we should have very strong comparisons in the 12/31 and 3/31 quarters.
I think we're going to have price increases in the spring.
Of course we don't know what those price increases are going to be yet.
And so we've modeled up mid-single digits on a net basis.
Okay.
And in the commentary about modest volumes in Q4 given it's one of the stronger seasons I was a little surprised by that comment.
So is there some type of deceleration? Or is it just the seasonal -- I'm not sure I understand why the volumes would have been so modest.
Yes I think what you see is that -- you need to look at a longer period of time than a quarter.
You can have instances where you could have a local outage.
You could have instances where you have -- that wasn't a lot of weather that impacted the 9/30 quarter.
We did have -- we had a very solid October but there was some weather impact.
And so you have to look really at local circumstances.
And if you look at a longer period of time we had a 10% increase in volume for the year.
And we have -- we put into our guidance up mid-single digits.
So I think if you look at the cement forecasts which are around 7% up mid-single digits is probably a conservative forecast compared to where Portland Cement is at.
Okay.
If I just may transition to RNR spending and on the light building product side can you comment on what you're seeing in terms of the spending particularly as it relates to exterior? Margins were a little bit lighter than we had modeled and I'm just wondering if the combination of mix plus you're not getting as much acceleration on spending in that particular category? I think the biggest driver is mix as far as the margins are concerned.
And because -- like our -- for example our roofing products are newer for us and so we haven't yet gotten to what we define as leadership economics on those roofing niche products.
So that weighs down on the overall EBITDA margins because of mix.
And I would add to that our block business that has been performing just fantastically it's a great business.
It has really good margins for a block business but those margins are lower than our average margins.
And so when it has outsized growth and great performance that can affect our average.
We will take it because the business is a fantastic business and it continues to improve.
But it does affect the margin on average.
Okay.
So you have both the roofing and the block kind of bring down your overall average.
The comment and then a question on CapEx.
If I extract from SG&amp;A the comp number is it fair to say that just with inflation that helps explain the larger dollar print at least the expansion relative to Q3 2015 the Q4 of 2015 in that same comparable period last year.
So I don't know if you have a comment on that.
If it's just inflation ex the comp that's fair.
Wondering if there's anything structurally changed there? And then secondly CapEx meaningfully above historical periods at the $50 million range or $45 million to $50 million plus commentary about some excellent growth CapEx opportunities that aren't captured in that number.
Help us appreciate the control that you are in place on getting the right returns on what seems to be either a higher maintenance spend on total CapEx or certainly some interesting growth opportunities in your near-term side.
Well a quick comment on the SG&amp;A there's nothing structurally that's really taking place in the business at all.
It is -- as you indicated we basically accrue for a variable compensation in the 9/30 quarter.
On the CapEx I think we're as disciplined in the CapEx expenditures as we're in the M&amp;A expenditures.
We're focused on CapEx investments where the returns will be quite a bit higher than our weighted average cost of capital.
And I gave one example of a CapEx expenditure in the Texas market.
We're really -- towards the end of the year we reached our capacity at -- in our block manufacturing.
And we've spent six to nine months identifying an opportunity that not only increases our capacity in the market what it does it allows us to take some of the specialty block products that we were running on what's called a besser machine and move them to what's called a big board machine.
It will greatly impact the efficiency of our operations.
So not only are we going to increase capacity we're going to get some of the more difficult products to manufacture onto a machine that is designed to manufacture them.
And so it should improve our efficiencies.
And so that CapEx expenditure not only do we believe it will increase our revenue because of additional capacity it will increase our efficiency.
And we should have some margin expansion associated with that CapEx expenditure.
There's a number of opportunities like that that we're pursuing this year.
And I would like to add just a couple things.
One on SG&amp;A is we have said before that our objective is to continue to work down our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue.
And we're on track to I believe hit our target of SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue below 15% when we get to closer to mid-cycle levels.
If you look at the 2015 performance we actually reduced our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue despite the compensation that was recorded here in fiscal 2015.
We took 70 basis points off that percentage taking it down from 17.4% last year to 16.7% this year.
We would expect that when we get out to 2016 we will again see an incremental improvement in that percentage as we continue to leverage that part of our fixed cost structure.
So very positive.
What I would add to the CapEx discussion is when you look at our CapEx it -- we can add -- typically add significant capacity manufacturing capacity with modest CapEx investment.
Part of the reason for that is the benefit of the continuous improvement that we have brought into the culture of the business.
We have been able to do some pretty I think special things around gaining efficiencies with equipment reducing the need for equipment on certain footprints -- which means when you want to expand capacity and put in more equipment you're typically able to do that on an existing footprint which has significant benefits from a return standpoint and a cost standpoint.
And so as we talk about maybe putting in a plant in Texas we're not talking about tens of millions of dollars by any stretch.
It's something much more modest than that.
And the returns like we said we believe could be very very good for the business and the shareholders.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Please go ahead.
A couple quick follow-ups.
First you mentioned the acquisition of the block business in Austin.
Can you give any color around that the materiality of that acquisition? It's generally not material to the business.
It will end up being positive we will have good returns; it's just pretty small.
So that's number one.
Quickly on the ash business obviously you are doing a really good job of managing and adding supply in what's been a pretty difficult environment.
I wanted to follow-up on one of your comments there what about the locational side of it? Just I'm wondering if you are seeing maybe some shifts in locations given we're seeing obviously lower code utilization Pennsylvania tax et cetera and I'm wondering if your RestoreAir is maybe giving you more volume in other places? So I don't know if you can talk about the impact of maybe puts and takes in terms of ash volume.
I think the place where volume is at most risk is in the Northeast.
They are older smaller facilities and that's where the RestoreAir has the greatest application.
Although when people are using activated carbon that occurs in both large and small facilities.
But what we -- but where we're at most risk is where there are small older coal-fired power plants.
Okay.
And then just the last comment I have on the HCM business on the service side we've now seen the F1 guidelines finally get published so we should have more visibility from a utility perspective on spend on cleanup.
Where are you as it relates to service work? And are you starting to see opportunities for larger service work coming your way? I think that's starting but I think that would be an excellent question a year from now.
The utilities are about as slow as they can be.
So I think that you are about one year ahead on that question Dan.
So some of the early adopters people like Duke I think we've seen some work out of First Energy you are not aligned with those opportunities? You're maybe looking elsewhere? Well we're starting to see a little bit of activity but it's not something that we can build into a model or anything like that yet.
Our final question comes from David Daglio with The Boston Company.
Please go ahead.
My question has been asked and answered.
Thank you.
So this concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We would like to thank you all for joining us this morning.
In closing fiscal 2015 was a very positive year for Headwaters with Q4 being the 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
So as we move into fiscal 2016 we're experiencing positive momentum and we look forward to another strong finish for fiscal 2016.
With that we will conclude today's call.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.