Good morning.
My name is Michael and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us for the third quarter 2011 earnings presentation of the Janus Capital Group.
Starting with the headlines.
In the third quarter of 2011 EPS was $0.15 compared to a $0.18 in the third quarter and $0.23 in the second quarter.
Third quarter EPS included importantly $0.06 per share of investment losses nonoperating investment losses primarily related to awards of mutual funds we make to our employees as part of their LTI compensation packages.
Bruce Koepfgen will tell you some more about that a little later in the call.
Assets under management at September 30 were $141 billion a decline of 17% versus June 30.
Most of that substantial -- the vast majority of that was a $26.5 billion negative market impact.
Janus' total company long-term flows were down $2.4 billion in the third quarter which compares to $3.1 billion out in the second quarter.
And finally operating margin in the third quarter was 31.3% a little better than the 31% in the second quarter and obviously significantly better than 23.4% in the third quarter a year ago.
Turning the page in the presentation to Page 3.
The obvious truth is the underperformance of some of our largest mutual funds continues to be our #1 challenge.
As a result of that performance and also very difficult market conditions especially for active equity managers and particularly for growth managers we continue to experience net outflows.
Fundamental equity net outflows were $3.8 billion in the third quarter as compared to $4.6 billion in the second quarter.
Based on current performance we're facing headwinds in performance fees as our mutual funds have significant performance fee structures.
In the third quarter we had $4.2 million of mutual fund performance fees negative versus negative $1.8 million in the second quarter.
Flipping the page to Page 4.
While we face up to that central challenge of investment performance in some of our larger funds some things are also going very well for us.
Performance and flows in our fixed-income franchise are very strong and we're seeing increasing momentum in the institutional channel.
100% of our fixed-income assets are outperforming in 3 and 5 years at September 30 and on a risk adjusted basis this franchise really continues to keep the promise to our clients.
In the third quarter of 2011 we had positive net flows of $2.1 billion in our fixed-income franchise compared to net flows of $1 billion in the second quarter and we're seeing our pipeline and consultant momentum continue to build.
The majority of our mathematical strategies managed by our subsidiary INTECH have delivered positive relative performance in the last year.
As a result we're seeing a moderation in redemptions increased interest from consultants and clients albeit moderate increase still at this point.
Primarily I think Europe is leading a little bit in front in terms of the return of interest; non-US markets in terms of return of interest to mathematical strategies compared to the U.S.
Our Perkins subsidiary is continuing to deliver on its promises to its clients.
They are a conservative value manager which tends to outperform in difficult markets and underperform in red-hot markets.
They've kept that promise with their clients and they continue to have a very strong successful franchise.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen our CFO for some more detailed comments on the results.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for attending.
We made a few modest changes to the presentation to provide as much clarity as possible around the factors that most impacted this quarter's results.
I hope you find them helpful.
Also I'm joined this morning by Jennifer McPeek our Treasurer; and Brennan Hughes Controller who will participate during the Q&amp;A as necessary to completely address your questions.
Going forward we of course welcome any comments you may have to improve the content or quality of these quarterly discussions.
This morning we'd like to focus on 4 items that'll help to explain our quarterly results.
I believe these are the items that most likely caught your attention as you reviewed the materials.
Those 4 items are: first the change in the assets under management and the resulting change in revenue; second the response of the expense structure and the drivers behind those changes; third nonoperating items; and then lastly the balance sheet.
I'll generally follow the order in the deck  starting on Page 6.
So let's start with the punchline some of which Dick has already touched upon and then I'll walk through the details.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.15 compared to $0.23 in the second quarter and $0.18 a year ago.
Third quarter earnings included a nonoperating loss of $0.06 a share primarily as a result of mark-to-market impacts on our pre-funded mutual fund award portfolio and seed capital investments.
Average AUM of $156 billion declined 9% primarily as a result of Beta [ph].
The market impact alone this quarter was $26.5 billion.
Revenue of $237 million declined 10% mainly due to this decline in AUM.
Operating expenses declined 11% as a result of the variable expense response and other cost reductions.
Operating margins improved slightly to 31.3% versus 31%.
As a result of negative markets during the third quarter net investment losses of $23.4 million were significantly up quarter-over-quarter primarily as a result of these mark-to-market losses on our prepaid mutual fund awards and the seed portfolio.
So let's take a look at each of these factors in order.
Recent underperformance in several of our larger fundamental equity products continues to weigh on our short-term performance numbers.
And as you can see on Page 7 long-term performance continues to be strong across all strategies.
In addition on a complex-wide basis 55% of our funds had 4 or 5-star overall Morningstar ratings on September 30 compared to the industry average of 32.5%.
Total company net outflows of $2.4 billion improved quarter-over-quarter primarily as a result of an increase in net flows in our fixed income strategies and a relative improvement in outflows in our fundamental equity business.
During the third quarter we had a $1.3 billion mandate win in our balanced fund which is a tremendous win for both of  our fixed-income and equity business and of course our distribution team.
However it is important to keep in mind that large wins like these are by their nature unpredictable.
Because of the manner in which we book AUM the flows for our balanced fund this win is split 50-50 between fundamental equity and fixed income.
Inclusive of 50% of the balanced fund win fundamental equity posted third quarter net outflows of $3.8 billion versus net outflows of $4.6 billion in the second quarter.
The relative improvement was driven by a 9% decrease in redemptions and a relatively flat gross sales number.
INTECH's net outflows of $700 million in the third quarter down from a $500 million inflow in the second quarter.
But it's important to note that this swing is primarily the result of a $1.3 billion mandate win that took place in the second quarter.
With the continued strength performance we are seeing a moderation in outflows.
INTECH's annualized redemption rate declined to 15% compared to 29% a year ago.
INTECH's strategies are delivering strong investment results and we are seeing increased interest among clients prospects and consultants particularly in non-US regions.
In our fixed income business net sales were up over 100% quarter-over-quarter driven by the large mandate win in our balance fund as well as continued momentum in the institutional channel.
We entered the fourth quarter with strong performance a healthy pipeline and we remain optimistic around opportunities going forward.
Average AUM during the third quarter was down 9% primarily as a result of significant market depreciation and to a lesser but still meaningful extent net outflows.
We saw our revenue decline by 10% quarter-over-quarter as a result of market declines and negative performance fees.
As you will recall we have performance fees on both our mutual funds and separate accounts.
In the third quarter we saw the negative performance fees on our mutual funds increased to $4.2 million from $1.8 million last quarter.
Third quarter private account performance fees were positive $1.1 million versus $1.6 million in the second quarter.
As previously discussed during the fourth quarter we will be bringing a number of our larger funds under this performance fees structure which amounts to an additional $20 billion in AUM.
To assist you in modeling these fees we have updated our Appendix slide to reflect the third quarter pro forma impact to performance fees.
You will see on the schedule that based on current performance if we were recording performance fees on all mutual funds during the third quarter the pro forma impact would have been an additional $11.8 million or $16 million in total.
Partially offsetting the decline in revenue third quarter operating expenses decreased 11% as the result of a decline in variable expenses and other explicit cost reductions.
Dissecting operating expenses a bit further our variable expense items compensation and distribution both declined 11% in line with revenue as we would expect.
Marketing expense declined 24% and G&amp;A declined 11% primarily as a result of management decisions that constrained discretionary spend in light of current market conditions.
As you know in July we began implementing a new compensation plan that ties aggregate variable compensation to profitability which we believe creates better alignment between our employees and our shareholders.
In the third quarter we saw the impact of this plan as market declines and negative performance fees pressure profits.
Before I move on a comment on expense management is probably in order.
As we respond to the current difficult operating environment our leadership team is committed to balancing the need to control expenses while prudently investing for the long-term growth of the firm.
As market conditions and conditions at Janus evolve we will continue to reduce expenses where we can.
But it is not our intention to reduce spend to the point where it will jeopardize our global strategy.
Turning now to nonoperating income items.
During the third quarter we incurred a $23.4 million mark-to-market loss on investment securities which primarily included a pre-funded mutual fund awards and seed capital.
The mark-to-market impact on the mutual fund awards drove the majority of this increase.
So to summarize the impact of all these items on earnings per share the top line impact that we experienced as a result of declining markets outflows and to a lesser extent negative performance fees represented about $0.10 a share.
The decline in operating expense as a result of the expected variable response from our compensation and distribution as well as other cost reductions offset about 70% of the revenue decline.
Finally the nonoperating items which were driven primarily by mark-to-market impact on our mutual fund awards accounted for the rest of the quarterly change.
Lastly a look at Slide 12 highlights the continued improvement in the credit quality of the company.
Over the last 2 years we have significantly reduced our leverage further strengthening our balance sheet.
A strong balance sheet as we have mentioned before continues to be important to management and our clients.
A few weeks ago we retired the remainder of our 2011 senior notes and following the retirement our leverage ratio declined below 2x for the first time since the second quarter of 2006.
In addition our balance sheet is now net cash positive.
Our cash position continues to be strong with approximately $600 million of cash and marketable securities.
Finally last Friday we announced we had replaced our previous $100 million one-year credit facility with a new $250 million 3-year unsecured credit facility which provides the firm with greater financial flexibility going forward.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to Dick for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thank you Bruce.
I'll make a couple of closing comments and then we'll take your questions.
In closing Janus continues to advance our strategy.
As I have said before it's our intention to strengthen and diversify the company across fixed income better institutional results international and we're taking important steps forward in each of those areas.
We are continuing to focus on our #1 challenge and taking steps to improve our investment performance.
And despite underperformance in our large cap growth funds we're still delivering some very strong results across an array of other fronts.
Notably our Triton fund recently won an S&amp;P award for mutual fund excellence for the second year in a row.
INTECH is delivering positive relative performance across the majority of its strategies and is applying its process to new areas to develop important new products that we think will be significant positive contributors in the medium term.
Perkins is delivering strong long-term performance.
It's keeping its promises and remains a very important and strong franchise as part of our family.
As Bruce said we're continuing to balance the needs for costs control in difficult market circumstances with our desire to continue to build out our strategy.
In that regard we've recently hired Susan Oh from JPMorgan to oversee our centralized U.S.
institutional sales and marketing teams.
We've added about 8 new heads important heads to our sales muscles outside the United States.
We've taken significant steps to strengthen our balance sheet over the last 2 years and we remain committed as I think you see in the margin line this quarter to strong cost controls while still investing to the extent necessary to build a bright future for our company.
With that I'll close.
And operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Michael Carrier from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question maybe on expenses.
So in the quarter if like you guys mentioned good cost control I think the question or the concern is that if we look at those pro forma negative performance fees and just assuming that nothing changes going forward on the performance side then can we assume that same type of flexibility on the expense side meaning in terms of the comp line? So if we do ramp up to that it's $16 million in quarterly [ph] performance fees can we see the same type of a reduction like we saw this quarter in comp or was there something special this quarter that could potentially not continue going forward? Fair enough.
Good question Michael.
I think the answer is that these performance fees as we've modeled them out for you are a meaningful consideration for us.
We can offset that to a certain extent by the types of cost control efforts that we've implemented in this quarter but I think that it's safe to say that we cannot respond completely from compensation response fairly significantly to changes in profits.
But if the current market conditions continue then I think the expectation should be that we'll see some kind of market or some margin compression.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up.
It seems like relative to the industry your sales held up relatively well during the quarter.
And even in some of the core equity [indiscernible] and fixed income.
And then the redemptions also you saw -- more of a decline there.
So I guess when you're looking through the channels and maybe if you -- I know you guys mentioned on the fixed income side it's mostly on the institutional part of the business but even in equities like where are you seeing some of that improvement versus what we saw over like the past 2 quarters? And it could be either products or channels.
That's a good question.
It's a complicated answer.
Fixed income is clearly strong and that's a big part of the counterbalancing positive flows.
And then we also have some very strong individual products -- I mentioned Triton earlier and some others that are driving positive flows.
We have seen this year an increase in the number of platform placements across the firm and so that gives us some opportunities in new places to have some counterbalancing flows.
But it's fair to say that our underperforming large cap growth and international products continue to weigh on us and those assets and relationships are strained given the current challenging performance.
And so it's a balance of those 2 forces that's giving us our net.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of compensation was any of the drop due to reversal of accruals from the first half of the year given the new compensation structure? Or is this like really a new true run rate given the level of profitability for the firm? Yes Ken.
As the year progresses and the market conditions change we monitor these accruals.
And in the third quarter we did have some insignificant adjustments.
But future adjustments would depend largely on market conditions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is the good run rate then? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on G&amp;A it fell a fair amount during the quarter as well.
Can you just discuss what the components were for the decline? There's some I guess some legal factors as well that probably impacted it.
And then to what extent is this a good run rate for G&amp;A? Let me take it in reverse order.
And the most importantly is this at a good run rate number? And the answer there is I think it is if these market conditions continue.
I mean if you look down the G&amp;A line there was a reduction almost in every category.
I don't want to say all of that was explicit to expense management but to a great extent when it comes to discretionary spend we have worked hard to constrain that while we work through these markets.
Research Division</strong> Is legal an issue there like given lawsuits? No.
And our next question comes from Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess looking at the balance sheet now and as well as the cash regeneration even in a more kind of negative performance fee environment is there a point where we can start thinking about you redeploying capital potentially back into maybe share repurchases? A good and obvious question.
I think I'll probably tackle this the same way we did at the end of last quarter.
We look first to internal opportunities to invest and to advance our business that we think will provide outstanding returns for our shareholders.
Dick has articulated those.
Our fixed income business our international platform seeding new products and of course investing in human resources which is our first step.
After that of course we're always looking for ways to return cash to our shareholders.
You're familiar with debt repurchases we've made this year the dividend increase and we will continue to look for opportunities to do just that.
At this particular point we think flexibility is key and so we're remaining in a conservative posture.
We have no plans to repurchase stock at this time but it is certainly not off the table.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe secondly here just in terms of the institutional business you have -- you've hired a new head of sales obviously recently and then thinking about potentially what's the backlog kind of potentially seeps [ph].
I know it's small but maybe even splitting up the INTECH and potentially fixed income business in a kind of how you can give us maybe some numbers around our key activity or final presentation.
Things that maybe could be a little bit more helpful? I'm sorry.
Could you repeat that question? I apologize.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just want to get a little bit more color around the institutional business.
You have a new head of sales.
And then think about talk about potentially what's happening within INTECH as well as in the fixed income side.
Maybe if there's a way to put some numbers around RFP activity or final presentations or kind of the roadmap that we should be kind of looking at to gauge your success within that channel.
Yes.
I'm sorry I don't have numbers of final presentations for you today.
I can tell you that clearly the fixed income strength is the most important factor in driving forward in positive institutional momentum.
I mentioned that we're seeing a modest increase in interest on the INTECH side.
INTECH is doing a good job and their industry is coming out of I think some challenging conditions where quantitative and mathematical strategies had a pretty low level of interest.
More of that rebound is happening outside the United States.
We also have some research Janus research funds particularly our global research fund which is generating an increasing amount of interest with consultants.
And I think we're optimistic about its near and medium-term future going forward.
So those are the key product areas.
And of course our Triton fund and our Smith team there has continued to develop some modest institutional business.
Those are really the key ingredients for us going forward on the institutional side and it's a domestic and an international story.
And our next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dick maybe -- hoping you can kind of help us think about what types of things you can do on the performance front and the fundamental product to improve at them.
How do you attack that problem? And is it an issue of -- that a lot of your fundamental product in the U.S.
is large cap oriented and part of it is growth oriented and that's been a tough part of the market.
Do we just need to wait for that to change? And also like do the concentrated portfolios I mean like the Janus Twenty make sense in this kind of market environment now where correlations have just been so high? Improving our investment performance is clearly our highest priority.
And we're looking at all the possible options on a constant basis to make sure that we're delivering the best for our clients.
It's true that we are facing some very difficult environmental elements that are affecting all active managers and in particular affecting growth managers.
And it's true that we've had some challenges that are Janus-specific in our portfolios that we're dealing with.
We're refocusing some of our key employees on a more narrow set of duties to make sure that we're getting the best possible results.
We've made some sort of internal team changes and things on our analyst and PM team that we believe help us address and improve performance.
But it's also worth noting that today 2011 has been just an extremely difficult environment.
Correlation across stocks has been extremely high driven by large macro and political factors.
That creates real challenges for stock pickers like us.
A couple of times this year you've seen correlations fall and the diversity go up.
And when individual stocks are differentiated in those kinds of environments we've seen pretty significant performance upticks in our funds.
And that gives us confidence that our process is working and our people are working.
We don't expect this environment a very high correlation just sort of macro risk on risk off bets to continue forever.
Obviously we haven't had a return to real diversity yet.
But we think that's coming and we think we're well positioned.
A lot of folks have sold a lot of good stocks on the basis of a risk-off trade.
And if we're doing our job picking amongst that group right now we're laying a foundation for future good performance going forward.
And so that's really where we're focused.
And we're looking at all the different elements of our process and making sure that we have it as tight as we can.
But as you know these things don't turn on a dime and that's going to take some work going forward.
And our next question comes from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the performance fee deleveraging a little bit just trying to reconcile between your comments that the third quarter expense base might be that right run rate all else being equal and so the potential erosion.
You said there are some things you can do.
But should we be thinking about the incremental margin on the foregone revenues in the 75% 80% range? Or any way to sort of frame out the risk to the downside? It's hard for me to answer that question.
I mean we really don't get into that kind of specific response so I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you look at the -- maybe a two-part question.
I just want that officially [ph] on the share reservicing I'm surprised that it didn't weaken a little bit more given the drop in the assets.
How at best to think about that? And then as a corollary on the marketing side there's a sharp drop absolute-dollars-wise at least in percentages.
Does that have any impact on the ability to grow the business at all? Or where are you saving on the spending I guess? I'm sorry Bill.
This is Brennan.
Can you repeat the last part of that question? I can speak at least the beginning of shareholder servicing.
Not all of  those amounts are directly asset related.
But can you repeat the last part of your question? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just on the marketing down $0.25 sequentially I know it's a small dollar amount but nonetheless where are you curbing the expenses and how should we think about it in terms of incremental penetration of growth? I think that the answer to the second part of the question is that we have to take a pretty disciplined look at all the discretionary spend.
And so we're making a very conscious effort to make sure that we stay on plan and stay within our strategy but when we find areas where we can hold back on that spend we are doing it.
So I wouldn't read a lot into it but it is our expectation that we will continue to do that going forward.
So that with the current run rates on those expenses and I mentioned before in this environment will probably maintain themselves And our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It seems like you're getting more institutional traction.
And I'm just wondering if you can talk about any fee differential for institutional versus retail for instance the large balance mandate you got or in fixed income this quarter.
And also when you look at the fixed income inflows this quarter can you maybe break out how much of that was institutional and what types of institutional? First I think we should note that the balance win in this quarter the significant one that we referenced earlier was in DC space.
In more separate account or DB institutional space clearly fees tend to be lower and as size goes up that is more true.
And the biggest difference is probably between different kinds of products.
Fixed income tends to be lower than equities and short-term fixed income lower than full discretion AG [ph]   portfolio.
So the mix of channels and the mix of products has a lot to do with the revenue mix that we achieve.
Clearly some of the products that are growing fastest are not our highest revenue highest fee products.
So there's a little bit of negative substitution effect there as we make more progress in the institutional business.
That said we can drive a very good margin off good institutional businesses as well.
So we're quite pleased to have it and I think we look forward to growing a much more substantial institutional business.
Cynthia I might just add one other thing and that is if you think of this in terms of management fee yield I wouldn't expect there to be much change.
I mean as Dick points out to the extent that there's a shift between our equity business or the fixed income business or from retail the institutional there can be some modest impact there.
The same time in our international channels those are a little larger fee environments.
So when we look at it at least at this point I don't see much reason to think there'll be much of a change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one more follow-up on the expenses.
You mentioned you don't want to cut spending to the point of constraining future growth.
And I'm just wondering if you could be a little more specific on that.
Are you saying you don't want to cut certain items further or that you want to restore some items like marketing or continue to hire? And when you say that are you thinking sort of broadly of next year or looking much further out? I think you have some pretty good examples of it in this quarter.
In the sense that I mentioned earlier we hired Susan Oh and we hired 8 important sales heads outside the United States.
Actually not all of those 8 are hired 6 of those 8 I think had been hired.
But we continue to make investments like that and we will continue to do so where it's important to our strategy.
That said we're going to drive hard on discretionary spend given the difficult environment that we face.
And keeping that balance is management's job and that's what we're going to do.
I think Bruce was straightforward in his earlier comment that if the negative performance fees going forward are significantly bad we will see some margin deterioration as a result because we'll continue to make the necessary investments to grow the firm for the future.
And our next question comes from Jeff Hobson from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us that -- how much that balanced fund mandate was? Again I missed that.
And then any reason to think that with that product you have some momentum say in the time contribution channel? And then finally those types of products have been more popular in the retail business.
Any sense of any pick up of interest on the retail side with that product? What is the first part of the question? It's a $1.3 billion win for us.
I think there is reason to be optimistic that there's increasing demand for balanced products in the DC space I think some of the folks in that channel have been disappointed by the performance of their target date funds and they're coming back around to take a look at the prior generation kind of balanced products and finding that maybe those compete very well against some of these target date funds.
So yes we're optimistic about the future of our balance products.
I don't have as good insider information in the retail channel and the future balance in that channel so I can't give you any very smart comment in that area.
And our next question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill LLP.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just not to beat a dead horse but in terms of the comp.
Yes I know the plan is now more tied to profitability but on the other hand there's only so much that is truly variable like you talked about.
So how should we be thinking about the comp ratio going forward assuming market conditions remain challenging and kind of the performance fee losses step up going forward? Michael from the presentation you'll see that we had a pretty healthy response to the declining profit situation.
I think we've talked 70% roughly.
I think those ratios are going to maintain themselves because we very explicitly tied compensation to our bottom line performance.
Other types of expenses as we mentioned don't respond quite as quickly.
We can't manage them down as quickly and as effectively.
And so to the extent that that continues we will get the variable cost response but there will be pressure on margins as we try to respond to them I think with the other costs.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just in terms of performance fees.
If I look at the slide in the appendix it looks like the total pro forma AUM was about $53 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
That was down more than 20% relative to a quarter ago and yet the pro forma kind of quarterly P&amp;L impact basically stayed flat at around $16 million of foregone revenues.
So can you just kind of talk a little bit about that dynamic? Is that just really a function of kind of the relative performance continuing to weaken for some of those funds? It's a combination of the performance and the assets in each of the funds and obviously some of the funds are just coming out in this quarter.
So I think it's just really the math embedded in the performance fees.
Some of those funds as you know have longer performance patterns that are being affected by the performance fees than others.
So they'll be slightly more volatile but basically you'd have it.
And our next question from Robert Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's probably hard to believe it's not a question on comp but some of your peers have similar kind of mutual fund awards.
Typically when there's a mark-to-market adjustment on the balances there's some offset for better or worse in comp.
Do you account for this the same way? And I'm just trying to get a feel for -- because it obviously affects how we think about the margin too.
So was there -- to the extent you've marked down had the large negative mark-to-market on the mutual fund awards was there some offsetting compensation decrease as a result and kind of if you could quantify that? This is Brennan.
Yes the mutual fund share awards do flex with market but they are somewhat delayed due to vesting schedules.
The impact to Q3 was approximately $1 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And can you maybe talk a little bit about -- I think you mentioned I guess maybe it's over the past year I forget the timeframe where I think you said you hired about 8 people for your international distribution.
I know you've kind of built out some investment capabilities.
Could you maybe update us? I mean is that kind of built out for the time being? What are your kind of plans there? And if you can -- any color you can give us on what you're starting to see from those efforts in terms of sales or pipelines or anything like that? Yes.
We hired Augie Cheh recently to run that business.
In his steps what he tried to do was realign the expense base in that business with less sort of management positions and much more of the percentage of the pie dedicated to field sales and client relationship folks.
In that effort he's hired a significant number of new sales people that are only now just arriving or will be arriving soon and will hopefully start to make contributions going forward.
So I can't point you to big sales numbers coming out of those efforts yet but we're optimistic going forward.
What has happened is I think we've got a better aligned team outside of the United States under Augie that is well positioned to deliver improved results.
We've also had some recent good wins.
We've had important new fund launches in Tokyo for our fixed income team.
We've had some institutional wins in Asia and in Europe.
And so that business continues to -- it's doing well but we look forward to the day when Augie's reorganization is at full force in effect.
And at that point we think we'll see significantly better results out of the international team.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Casteleyn and from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can update us on search activity on the Quant [ph]  Arena.
At this point you haven't seen a lot of new RFPs although your one-year performance has turned up.
So I'm just wondering what you saw in the third as far as search activity in Quant [ph].
Search activity in U.S.
active management has been down on an institutional basis.
And INTECH is getting -- I think it's fair share of a tiny amount of that that is dedicated towards mathematical or quantitative efforts in the U.S.
but it's a very small number.
Outside the U.S.
you know that in the last quarter we had a significant win in Australia and we continue to feel increased interest from clients and consultants outside the United States.
And we're optimistic that we can put -- win some additional significant business outside the United States on a go-forward basis.
But with lumpy institutional wins the timing of that is unpredictable and uneven.
And so I'm afraid I can't give you a good look forward for -- on a quarter-to-quarter basis how that's going to look.
The feel of it is there's increasing interest outside the United States and a little bit inside the United States.
But inside the United States it's still at a very modest level.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Understood.
And then just to Bruce on the upside of the upsize of the credit facility to $250 million can you just prioritize what you think the strategic options of the company are as you now have a larger credit facility? Great question.
I don't think I'd read too much into it.
I think we saw an opportunity in the market to extend the maturity and gather more sides at the right price.
It gives us a lot of financial flexibility going forward.
It's not targeted at this point.
It's meant to give us the kind of flexibility that we think we might need or want to draw on in the future.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question.
And that does come from Mark Irizzary from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you just talk about the fixed income channel? It's like if you look on a quarterly basis the redemption rate there is maybe a little bit higher then bounces around a little bit.
Is that -- do you expect that as you build out the institutional business that the redemption rate will sort of that it'll become a little more normalized if you will as that business grows? And then also where do you think the big forward share gains are for you from a fixed income where are they coming from? I think in fixed income there's always a challenge in the short-term bond area especially that people use it a little bit as a checkbook.
And that's not our first choice but it's a risk in this business.
It's a liquid pool that people can use and that will drive -- we have an excellent excellent short-term product and the redemption rate on that side will always be higher.
In terms of opportunities I think you're seeing some of the major fixed income players have real performance challenges in some of their key product lines.
And I think for our flexible bond fund in the intermediate bond area our high yield fund and our short-term fund I think there are big opportunities in each of those areas for us going forward.
I think Janus is the new kid on the block in fixed income space; we're still not nearly as well-known in fixed income as we are in equities.
But we're seeing a significant increase in interest and support from institutional consultants and that -- if we continue to do our jobs well that should drive a very steady flow of increasing business going forward.
So we don't see -- we see opportunity on the horizon and continuing gathering momentum.
But we recognized that the fixed income markets particularly in rates have been very volatile and future success depends on our ability to continue to deliver the excellent risk-adjusted returns.
That's the heart of that business.
And so far we have a terrific team that's done just a great job.
And at this time I'll turn the floor back over to Dick Weil.
Thank you everybody for your time today.
We hope the new format of the presentation is effective and useful for you.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you gentlemen.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a great day.