Good morning.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference the standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experience to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in the statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of the circumstances or the events that arise after the dates of these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Thank you.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to third quarter 2012 call.
Welcome from the first snowstorm here in Denver.
I hope you all are doing well.
We're certainly enjoying the prospect of winter around here.
The third quarter results starting with the basic facts we had an EPS of $0.14 compared to $0.13 in the second quarter of 2012.
This included a charge of $0.01 per share due to impairment of intangible assets related to the redemption of a sub-advised account.
Assets under management at September 30 were $158.2 billion which was up 3.8% versus June.
Total company flows were $2 billion out in the third quarter compared to almost $4 billion out in the second quarter.
And operating margin was almost 23% compared to 25.3% in the second quarter.
With me today is Bruce Koepfgen he'll take you through some of the more detailed information but before he does let me just give you my sense of what the story of this quarter was.
And the first and most important element for us in the story of the quarter is investment performance is improving particularly at our Janus domestic equity mutual funds.
We have a long way to go to get back to where we need to be for our clients still but we've seen substantial improvement this year.
The second thing is obviously our net flows improved.
As we said net flows were $2 billion out in the third quarter compared to almost $4 billion out in the second quarter.
That was significantly influenced by a $1.7 billion win by our INTECH mathematical subsidiary from a big non-U.S.
client and that was obviously terrific news for us.
But it's the sort of lumpy institutional flow that's hard to predict.
The third element of the story is the Dai-ichi Life joint -- strategic alliance.
On August 10 which seems like a long time ago at this point we entered into a strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life Company Limited who is the third largest life insurer in Japan.
Dai-ichi Life announced at that time they plan to acquire between 15% and 20% of our stock through open market purchases and then we granted them an option at an exercise price of $10.25 for 7% roughly of the outstanding as an insurance policy in case the price of their acquisitions rose significantly.
They needed to have some assurance that they could complete their acquiring of our shares at a somewhat predictable price.
The alliance represents a really terrific step forward for us.
First it brings to us a very strong long-term strategic partner as a shareholder which is terrific news I think for our company and for all our shareholders.
Second they are giving us $2 billion of their assets to manage in our strategies including a significant allocation to seed capital to be used to enhance and develop our newer strategies.
Third as you know it's been a major part of our strategy to develop internationally and clearly Dai-ichi Life in Tokyo through their DIAM's affiliate 50% owned affiliate can be a major help for us both in terms of reputation and in terms of building relationships and in terms of distribution in Tokyo.
We're looking forward to that very much.
And as I say that's entirely consistent with our strategic plans and hopefully they can also help more broadly around Asia Pacific.
In exchange for this they will when they're done with their open market purchases have a designee who will be appointed to our Board of Directors as one of the 11 directors of our company.
And they'll have some -- a small number of folks who succumbed themselves in employment and worked with us here in Denver.
And we're really pleased to have this relationship.
It's a very exciting development for us.
It strengthens our company and it advances our strategy.
And so this was what took about 2 years of getting to know each other to put together and we're just thrilled with the result.
With all that said I will turn the call over to Bruce Koepfgen to please take you through some more of the information.
Good morning everyone.
So the most important considerations for the third quarter would include the strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life that Dick just mentioned an improvement in net flows operating margins that include a noncash impairment charge and continued improvement in the balance sheet.
If you're following along on the deck I'll start on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.14 compared to $0.13 in the second quarter.
Third quarter earnings per share included a $2.5 million noncash charge equivalent to $0.01 a share due to the impairment of intangible assets related to the redemption of one sub-advised account.
Third quarter average AUM of $155.5 billion increased slightly driven by market strength and partially offset by net outflows.
Revenue of $209 million increased moderately due to the increase in average AUM and private account performance fees.
Operating expenses were $161 million $7.2 million higher than the prior quarter.
This was due to higher compensation expenses as well as the $2.5 million impairment charge I just mentioned.
Operating income of $47.9 million declined $4.2 million again reflecting the higher operating expenses.
Finally operating margin for the third quarter was 23% versus roughly 25% in the second quarter.
As of September 30 41% of complex-wide assets were outperforming a majority of the Lipper peers on a 1-year basis.
While this is still less than we expect of ourselves this represents a substantial improvement compared to a year ago.
INTECH is also putting up excellent long-term performance with 82% 93% and 75% of strategies meeting their respective benchmarks over a 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
This reflects a notable improvement from the second quarter.
Total company long-term net outflows of $2 billion improved from $3.9 billion in outflows in the second quarter.
Taken in their parts fundamental equity posted third quarter net outflows of $3.3 billion versus $2.5 billion in the second quarter.
The decline was driven primarily by an uptick in redemptions.
In addition fundamental equity flows continue to be challenged by a market uncertainty and a drift away from active equity strategies toward fixed income and passive strategies.
Our mathematical equity strategies had net inflows of $300 million in the quarter compared to net outflows of $2.5 billion in the second quarter.
The improvement was primarily due to a $1.7 billion non-U.S.
mandate win that Dick referenced.
While we are pleased with this win we want to remind everybody that the institutional business by its nature can be large but inconsistent.
Redemptions also improved in the quarter.
INTECH along with many of its large-cap and mathematical quantitative peers continues to experience an environment with sporadic demand as the outlook remains tempered by secular trends away from active U.S.
equity.
In our fixed income business net sales remain positive for the 15th consecutive quarter at $1 billion.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for this business which has crossed $25 billion in assets under management for the first time in the firm's 40-year history.
Our total revenue increased by 1.5% in the quarter due to slightly higher average assets and improved private account performance fees.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $23 million for the quarter which was flat to last quarter.
Due to the 3-year nature of the calculation renewed positive performance will take time to offset the cumulated underperformance.
Third quarter operating expenses increased $7.2 million.
Of that employee compensation and benefits increased $4.2 million due primarily to a change in variable accrual rates as the result of market fluctuations quarter-over-quarter.
However the compensation-to-revenue ratio remained within the expected range we have discussed in previous quarters.
Long-term incentive compensation increased by $1 million due -- primarily due to the market impact on mutual fund share awards.
And as mentioned earlier depreciation and amortization increased versus the prior quarter as a result of the impairment charge.
Combined marketing advertising and G&amp;A lines declined slightly compared to the second quarter.
We continue to hold the line on discretionary expenditures but are careful not to deprive the business of the resources necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
A quick look at Slide 10 highlights the continued improvement on the balance sheet.
We continue to generate healthy cash flows with $75 million in cash flow from operations driving a $49 million or 16% increase in cash and equivalents.
As we have mentioned in the past we remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
In summary delivering strong investment returns for our clients is our highest priority.
We are encouraged by the improvement in our investment performance in 2012 but there is still much to be done.
Given the current environment the management remains committed to balancing financial discipline with investments for our strategic development.
We continue to look for opportunities to invest our excess cash organically in initiatives that have returns above our cost of capital and for opportunities that would provide investors with the best risk-adjusted returns such as buying back debt issuing dividends and buying back stock.
Over the course of the first 3 quarters of the year we have generated cash flow from operations of $140 million.
And we have redeployed $130 million of this capital through quarterly dividends anti-diluted stock buybacks retirement of debt and new seed capital launches.
As we expected we have experienced a significant impact from negative performance fees year-to-date.
However we continue to keep a close eye in discretionary expenses and the variable nature of our business model is designed to respond to market and financial conditions.
And lastly we are extremely excited about our strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life and are optimistic the relationship can help enhance our brand and build relationships around the Asia-Pacific region more broadly.
Having a strategic alliance with one of Japan's premier financial institutions will help us take the next steps toward building a more globally diverse organization.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Dick if you could maybe give some context and background around the Dai-ichi transaction or the relationship and how long those talks have gone on? And then subsequent to the actual agreement in mid- or early August kind of how the talks have evolved in the last kind of 2 months.
Sure when I first started here in February of 2010 they contacted us and asked for a meeting.
And we sat down with a fairly open mind about what their desire and intention was and they expressed an interest in growing from their insurance base into asset management.
But they expressed a sort of a humility that they weren't sure that they could build a global asset management company by managing it themselves.
So their intention was to take strategic stakes in one or more asset managers and through equity accounting benefit from the proportionate share of the earnings growth for their own company and participate in the asset management industry globally in that way.
So we took that idea and we sat down internally after that meeting and said what would make this make sense for us? We said well the first thing is we don't want to be dilutive to our existing shareholders they need to acquire the shares through an open market purchase.
The second thing is they need to demonstrate their trust and confidence in us by giving us a significant account of theirs to manage.
The third thing is we'd like some support with additional seed capital to help develop our business.
The fourth thing is we'd very much like to have a distribution and relationship-building assistance in a key region that would make sense to us.
The fifth thing is we'd like to have brand enhancement.
And we went back to them and suggested that those were our key points and they reacted quite favorably to that list.
We then spent really the next 2 years in a very very thorough diligence and relationship process.
There were stops and starts along the way.
There were certainly times when we thought this was not likely to happen.
But in the end through a process of getting to know each other and building trust we arrived at the point of the announcement that I described earlier which we're extremely happy about.
In terms of what's happened since that announcement they are acquiring in the open market.
So necessarily our contact with them is somewhat limited partially due the fact that you of course don't want to give them any inside information but also you don't want to create the appearance of any such thing either.
And so our contacts have been less I think complete than they will be following their accumulation of their stake.
We've had some nice conversations with them about the timing and pace of their investments in our strategies.
And we're working with them to make sure that we're accomplishing their needs as an investor and that they're helping us develop our business.
Those conversations are going well.
And they have begun funding with the first $300 million investment here in October.
So that's an update but we don't expect them to actually join the Board and have the sort of a more extensive relationship until after they're done accumulating their shares in the public market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up for Bruce you highlighted the cash flow generation year-to-date and the uses of that cash and I guess should we think about that still going forward? Is the primary usage we think maybe paying down debt versus share repurchases? Is the excess capital or that being the primary use going forward? Well I think all of those things are going to be under consideration as we've suggested in the past.
We're trying to make a very disciplined uses of the cash as I outlined in the comments.
We don't have -- we have been in the market this year as you know reabsorbing the dilutive shares from our LTI program.
But at this point we believe that a conservative approach to this balance sheet is the right one.
And so there are no plans to buy back shares at this point.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Robert (sic) [Roger] Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So on the INTECH win that's great news.
Is that -- you talked last quarter about I believe international interest in quantitative mathematical funds picking up a bit as versus domestic and I'm just wondering if how sort of one-off is this something you have been working on a long time or you have an active set of discussion for larger size mandates in that area? Sure thanks Robert (sic) [Roger] this is Dick.
Relationships like that are the work of years.
The folks who have that sort of investment portfolio to invest are known and you go about building trust and confidence and relationship over a long period of time and certainly that's true in this case.
It's hard to take a point and draw a line from a point.
And so your question's a little bit awkward for me in a sense that this is a point and it's obviously the biggest and most important point in what I think really does form a trend or a line which is an increased level of interest outside the United States in mathematical strategies and in what INTECH is doing.
In particular I think INTECH has been the intellectual leader of low volatility portfolios for a long time.
I think the work that INTECH has done in volatility for decades has positioned it as a true leader in the field with really differentiated excellence in their understanding of volatility and how to capture it and offer low volatility portfolios.
That is an increasingly interesting area for folks particularly outside of the United States.
It hasn't resulted in lots and lots of positive flows yet and these things are always hard to predict.
But certainly the conversations that are ongoing demonstrate there's a receptiveness and an interest in these ideas outside the U.S.
probably well in front of the U.S.
And INTECH is a true leader in this area.
So we're optimistic that over time they can gather an increased flow from outside the U.S.
But again these things are lumpy.
They're individual relationships and they're hard to predict and certainly on a quarter-to-quarter basis I don't think you can draw any straight lines from that one win to future quarters.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure now understood.
Okay and then the follow-up question just on Dai-ichi the $300 million they invested was that in various existing products or is that part of what you're talking about in terms of seeding new product? Is that what that went into? Seed is a little bit of an awkward term with respect to the Dai-ichi investments.
They are not interested in investing in first-dollar brand new ideas that don't have a track record.
Think of them -- their seed investment is really more second-wave investments.
So these are products that are perhaps -- have been started have begun to have a track record and perhaps have an asset base which is small enough that it discourages other folks from coming in.
So think of it as second-wave capital in smaller newer products rather than the very first dollar.
And in the case of the initial 300 I think it's in our global research strategy which is a well-established strategy.
But in the offshore fund that they're supporting it's pretty small.
And our next question comes from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First aside from the Dai-ichi partnership can you talk a little bit more about your non-U.S.
distribution initiatives in terms of maybe what regions you're targeting and how you're approaching each market? So for example are you planning on kind of leading with existing fixed income capabilities or is it more of a broader approach that might include some of your newer strategies? And then any potential implications for fee rates and margins as that business continues to scale? This is Dick again.
Let me do my best to answer that but it may be that the detail that you're requesting sort of on a country by country basis is something we can't get into at this level on this call.
We may be able to follow up with you afterwards with some additional information if you need it.
But let me start by saying we hired Augie Cheh from AllianceBernstein -- I'm going to get it wrong how far how long he's been with us more than a year 1.5 years approximately to reinvigorate our non-U.S.
distribution.
And he has essentially leaned out the management and infrastructure layers of our business outside the U.S.
and invested in a significant number and I'm going to get the precise number wrong but it's 10-ish sales folks in field and some other support enhancements to position that team to deliver better results.
The scope of what they're doing really depends on the market.
There are some markets out there for instance Italy where you pursue primarily the retail opportunities.
There are other markets out there for instance the U.K.
where you're pursuing primarily institutional business.
That means the product sets are different the legal vehicles are different the approach to the market the fees the margins are all quite different.
And so answering your question at any sort of more aggregate bucket is going to be a challenge for us because the different countries are really different stories.
So I apologize for not being able to get closer to a complete answer for you but that's probably all we can do in this kind of a setting.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second question it looks like performance fees from INTECH stepped up a fair amount this quarter.
Can you just talk about the strategies that may be generated the fees? And then does the step-up impact the trajectory looking out to the fourth quarter? Well let me just address what's going at INTECH and the strategies.
As you saw in one of the first pages of our presentation they were up at September 30 to 93% of their strategies outperforming on a 3-year basis.
And those 17 -- or sorry 7% remaining are pretty darn close.
And so they have done a good job with their performance recently and they're really delivering risk-adjusted volatility-controlled liquid returns for their clients which we think is going to win the day in the end.
What they do is apply a philosophy around volatility capture as a way to beat various cap-weighted -- liquid cap-weighted stock indices around the world.
And so they can offer that skill applied to U.S.
indices or non-U.S.
indices.
They do global as well as U.S.
And so their products have a similarity which is they're all driven by the same philosophy and volatility capture kind of engine around what they do.
And that engine is working quite well and has worked well for decades honestly.
It's a very powerful thing.
And so it isn't about which product as much as it's about the central engine working well.
That said they are offering a relatively new product in low volatility portfolios.
These are for folks who are scared by the volatility they've seen in the equity markets in the past.
They want through a full cycle of returns to achieve an index or better peer or better kind of return but they want to get there with a smoother more stable path which typically means in really hot times they'll underperform and they won't go down as far in the bad times.
It's a mathematical approach which is similar to the same philosophy that Perkins has offered with excellence for many years from their side as well.
And so that's the new thing that appears to have the most buzz in the marketplace at the moment.
But the most important element of what INTECH is doing is that they're central engine is strong and effective and delivering for their clients.
And our next question comes from Bill Katz of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the margin discussion I guess where I struggle is the markets are up pretty nicely sequentially.
Performance fees are basically flat.
You mentioned that your model's built with a variable nature which will allow for better margins in an uptake and yet your core operating margin was down pretty substantially both quarter-to-quarter and year-on-year.
Can you address why that might be the case and why it might improve? Sure Bill.
I think as it pertains to this quarter the impact you're seeing is really due to this quarterly fluctuation that exists in the market and has affected our accrual rates in the second and third quarters.
So in the second quarter we adjusted our full year accrual rates to reflect what was a more depressed market.
In the third quarter we experienced a market lift.
It forced a change in the accrual rates the full year accrual rates and that really contributed to the delta and in addition impacted the margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second question is as you come back to Dai-ichi beyond the initial $2 billion of general assets they've identified what products could you see the incremental lift as you look out over the next 12 24 months? We're working with them to make sure that they're comfortable with the investment choices for their investments but I don't think we can identify right now the specific strategies.
This is -- we have discussed a number of ideas with them but this is an ongoing discussion and it will evolve over time as their needs and interests evolve as ours do.
And so I wouldn't want to just define the specific strategies.
That will be worked between us in the coming days.
And our next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question well my first question being on the fixed income flows is this -- if we look at them they have been steadily positive for a long while now although even just based on the exhibit you have in here there's  been some kind of general decline despite the robust industry flows.
Could you give us some color on fixed income in terms of which products you're seeing the greatest demand for and maybe give us some color around how your senior business split between institutional and retail? And maybe why despite as still being pretty positive it's been -- it has declined at least sequentially for the last 4 or 5 quarters? Sure we don't perceive that business to be in decline or losing momentum at all.
We are optimistic about the prospects for that business.
The portfolios are performing very well and they continue to be very well-received by their clients and building improving relationships with the institutional consultants.
Year-to-date our fixed income business has posted organic growth above 20% which is above the industry and we think that should continue.
As you look at the historic net flows there are some of the lumpiness of institutional accounts in the numbers.
One thing that comes to mind is in the third quarter of 2011 we had a $700 million mandate win from a large public plan which is a lumpy thing which doesn't happen in any -- every quarter.
But our sense that that business is moving forward effectively delivering excellence for their clients really has -- it continues to build in the right ways remains unchanged.
The numbers are going to move around a little bit in terms of flows.
I'm not sure whether industry flows for fixed income are quite as hot as they have been.
I think they've come off to boil a little bit.
There may be some of that reflected in the numbers but by and large we have the strong sense that we're building a really good business with that team.
We're proud of them and we think they're on track.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible just to get some color around where you're seeing the most activity in terms of interest in new business maybe and then maybe some retail institutional if you think is possible kind of breakdown of how the business is flowing? Well we don't have that sort of detail for you on the call.
I mean I think they're seeing positive interests across what they do.
They're seeing it in their shorter-duration portfolios.
They're seeing it in their flexible bond which is their intermediate duration or ag kind of competitor.
They're seeing it with more recently launched global portfolios global credit portfolios and they're seeing interest there.
You can look at the products clearly the bigger products are the short duration and the flex and those are the- those have been the long-standing excellent products and those are the larger size.
But we're very optimistic about the newer global products as well.
So I think we're seeing interest across the board in fixed income.
I think it's probably not as hot as it was a year ago in terms of the industry level of interest but there's still a lot of interest and we're very optimistic about what they're doing and where they're headed.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe going back to follow up on Bill's question with compensation just again just trying to get a better sense of how to think of this going forward.
It's -- understanding there's probably some true-up in the quarter it sounds like but if I look back to the third quarter last year roughly similar level of comp on -- with almost $30 million more revenue and I understand that given my sense that you've made efforts to try to tie comp a little close -- more closely to pretax earnings or revenue generation at this point should we really be thinking about it? Even though it's variable that you're kind of at a level that even if you have some even if the revenues are flatlined it's not that much room really on comp to -- it's kind of-- it may be -- it's not that variable on I'll call it on the way down for lack of a better way of putting it.
So is this kind of like you're kind of at the bottom of where you can really be to run the business pay people that we should expect that...
No I wouldn't go to that conclusion.
I mean if you take a look at the numbers even though there was some noise between the second quarter and the third quarter of this year that comp-to-revenue ratio that we'd spoken to in the past is still traveling in that low 30s area.
I think it was between 33% and 34% this quarter.
I don't think you can conclude that the flex in our income statement has gone away.
And as it pertains to last year remember we've got a fairly dramatic difference this year in terms of our performance fee situation versus what we have now.
So I wouldn't draw that conclusion.
We're still managing this business so that we have flex in that cost structure to accommodate for financial conditions.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on fixed income I'd love to get some more metrics kind of going to the underlying strength in the business if possible.
So I'll just try throw out a bunch of them and see if you can share any of them like the pace of RFPs number of clients you had today versus a year ago number of employees you have versus a year ago.
I know you've been hiring and there's been some turnover there but like how much is that going up? And then one forward-looking one what kind of resources are you looking to add there? Like obviously the business has been growing you've been highlighting it.
It's a key focus for you guys.
What do the resources look like a year from now and color there? So I'll put all -- one question with 26 parts all into one.
Well unfortunately I don't think I can give you a great answer to your 26 parts.
We don't give that level of information on the call.
What I can tell you is in my almost 3 years here we have added more than a dozen or so folks to the fixed income team in various capacities.
Maybe that's a little high maybe 10 to 12.
And I think it's pretty well built out.
So I don't expect a radical change in the number of heads going forward.
But as that business grows I think they'll add 1s and 2s here and there on a relatively constant basis as they move forward.
I don't have in front of me the total number of heads in that business but we can -- you can get John Groneman and then we'll talk to you after the call and we can get you a number on that just so you can see the size of the investment relative to the existing team.
In terms of numbers of RFPs numbers of clients et cetera we just don't give out that data.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is there anything that you can kind of highlight like obviously the sales look great but any maybe questions I didn't ask about the sustainability of the sales like just leading indicators or I know it's kind of fishing but anything to show or highlight how well this business will continue to do? Well our business is a largely a credit-focused fixed income business which focuses on risk-adjusted returns.
It has one eye on capital preservation.
So you can expect certain things from a business like that which is when credit is screaming hot that probably won't be its best period because they will never be the most aggressive in terms of going-down credit and buying the most iffy names and riding that wave.
But they seek to capture a really good risk return by getting an appropriate amount of spread out of credit on top of their poor fixed income rates exposures.
And they've done it well through some incredibly volatile and difficult times through the marketplace.
So they rode this strategy through 2008 and did very well in terms of risk management at a time when credit got its brains blown out.
And that gives them a really good -- a track record through a really challenging time to share with clients.
They also have a really strong team ethic and a really strong client-service ethic.
So we think those things are enduring and will continue bear fruits going forward.
Everybody's wondering what happens to rates.
Everybody's wondering what happens if rates start going up.
My personal opinion is a credit-based fixed income will be better than rates-based fixed income in a sort of a rising rate environment.
Clients are going to give in where yields are right now clients need credit spread more than ever and that accounts for why you've seen some compression and lot of people chasing credit spread.
But I don't think that's going away.
I think that given a low rate environment I think that's a sustained trend.
So I think there's a structural demand for credit-based fixed income.
And I think we do it well.
I think our focus on risk-adjusted returns and capital preservation fits well with the sort of the more scared client base in lots of parts of the world.
So I think there future is pretty good.
But they like all other fixed income managers can face some serious challenges if you get rapidly rising rates or big changes in default rates.
Those can certainly be challenges for them.
And we have time for one final question and we'll go to Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you just elaborate a little bit more on the sourcing relationship with Diam in terms of I guess products and some advisory relationships and also sort of maybe how we should think about what the fees could be that come in and then the timing of the -- and the timing of the relationship? I can take the last part first which is that the level of fees between us are market fees.
But they're individually negotiated based on the kind of strategy and this kind of deal that we might be doing with them.
They have already taken up our global credit portfolios and have done a fund in Tokyo that -- I'm going to get the size wrong.
Do you know John? Roughly $700 million which is a portfolio we have with them their help and distribution in Tokyo.
And we hope and expect more of those.
The nature of the relationship is such that we are friendly and looking to cooperate with each other but there isn't a schedule or a specific plan that says next Tuesday we'll be selling this that or the other thing because DIAM needs to work with the big distributors in Tokyo Mizuho and others to deliver their funds to the Japanese investors.
And so they are very sensitive to the trends in terms of what the Japanese investors are buying at any given moment.
So the first thing out of the gate is a nice start in our relationship with global credit.
But we're optimistic that we can over time build additional success stories with them.
And the pace of that is just very hard to predict going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on INTECH I guess a question on the mandate.
Can you give us a sense of what those -- what the fee is on that mandate relative to average and obviously it's a big win.
And then on -- and then related to that the -- your distribution are you making any changes in terms of the push of INTECH into retail channels RIA et cetera? On the first one no we can't give you that information I'm sorry.
On the second part about the push in distribution INTECH's client base is substantially an institutional client base.
And I think that's probably going to continue for the foreseeable future.
That's frustrating to me because I think what they do ought to be very valuable to retail investors as well.
The challenge that we face is the strategy is a little more -- it's a little further from what the common man understands.
I mean the words volatility capture can cause lots of retail investors to glaze over pretty quickly.
And so there are some challenges in explaining positioning and selling their excellent products in retail channels.
And that continues to be a hurdle.
So I don't see anything ongoing now that would lead us to expect that they are going to move in a significant way in the retail market.
But we don't give up on that prospect and we're constantly asking ourselves how can we change that answer because what they do is very valuable.
It has been proven over decades and we think it should be interesting to retail investors.
But Ken really we just haven't really have the success we would like in explaining the strategy in a way that makes it accessible to a retail buying public.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Weil for additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you everybody for your time today.
We appreciate your attention.
Obviously we're available to take follow-up calls on details underneath what we've described today and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thanks everybody.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending and have a nice day.