Good morning.
My name is Aaron and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I'd like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I'd like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the first quarter 2013 earnings call for the Janus Capital Group.
Before we dive into our usual process of quarterly results I want to call your attention to a few changes we've made this quarter and the way that we're presenting information which hopefully will result in a better communication more useful for you all.
We have heard some commentary from large shareholders and analysts that some of the questions that come up on the call could be better addressed with more factual support and more detailed response.
In an effort to respond to that what we've decided to do is collect questions before each quarter and then address them in some detail as part of the prepared Q&amp;A section in our presentation and then we'll reserve the last section of this call as usual for open mic and questions on a live basis.
We hope this gives you more useful set of communications.
Please give us your feedback in terms of how this works from your perspective.
As a part of this process we've prerecorded portions of this call to ensure quality and accuracy.
Before I hand it off to Bruce as usual I'd love to give you a few starting comments.
As we've talked about in prior quarters Janus is on a journey to becoming a stronger and more diverse company.
As you know we have faced some significant challenges primarily as a result of underperformance in some of our larger mutual funds in our fundamental equity strategy.
As we reflect on performance in first quarter of 2013 it's fair to say that our fundamental equity strategies have come out of the gates a little slower than we would've liked and expected.
That said one quarter's performance is far too short a time period on which to draw conclusions.
But this fits into the larger context as you no doubt know.
We had a tough 2010 and '11.
We had a much better 2012.
Even after the first quarter on a trailing 12-month basis most of the funds look pretty good.
But on a 3-year basis the challenges are significant.
And this affects us as you know both in terms of performance fees over a medium horizon and in terms of net flows.
And that remains our primary focus make sure that we're doing everything we can do to strengthen and achieve excellence in our investment performance for our clients.
In this quarter we saw a growing confidence in our client base more interest and enthusiasm for equity investing certainly which as Bruce details on the numbers led to better gross flows for our equity products particularly for those equity products that have put up a strong performance over multiple years.
In addition to focusing on investment performance we're also focusing on our other strategic priorities.
We've called our strategy "intelligent diversification " and we continue to drive forward as we have over for the last 2 years.
But when we sum up our priorities for this year we start with deliver long-term investment performance we move to building a more client-centric organization we want to expand and diversify our investment and our distribution capabilities to better serve our clients and then we want to continue our disciplined focus on operational and financial matters balancing our investments with the necessary discipline to fund those investments.
Lastly I need to mention 2 things.
First we've increased the dividend this quarter as you would have seen in our press release.
We raised it 17% to $0.07 a share.
This brings our annual dividend payout ratio to approximately 50% as Bruce will discuss in more detail later.
The second piece is during this quarter we announced the intention to have Mr.
Enrique Chang join us as our new Chief Investment Officer for Equities and Asset Allocation.
It's as an intention to join us because he is the subject of gardening leave a contract promise at his current employer and so he's not actually able to start in our business until September.
And that's a little frustrating to wait for him but we're very excited to have Enrique joining us and we think this will help continue our efforts to make sure we have the best possible investment performance for our clients.
With that said let me turn this over to Mr.
Bruce Koepfgen for a more detailed presentation of our financial results.
Good morning everyone.
We have a lot to cover this morning so I'll go right to the numbers starting on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.15 compared to $0.17 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
First quarter average AUM of $161.8 billion was 4% higher than the prior quarter driven primarily by market strength which was partially offset by net outflows.
Revenue of $214.2 million decreased 1% from the fourth quarter.
Higher management fees were offset by lower private account performance fees and fewer days in the quarter.
Operating expenses of $159.5 million include higher compensation expense lower marketing advertising and G&amp;A expense and the intangible impairment charge from the fourth quarter that did not repeat.
Operating income of $54.7 million was 6% lower than the prior quarter reflecting a slight decrease in top line revenue coupled with slightly higher expenses.
Lastly operating margin for the quarter was 25.5% versus 26.8% in the fourth quarter.
As of March 31 57% of fundamental equity assets were performing above the median of Morningstar peers on a 1-year basis.
This number represents an improvement from a year ago when only 39% of assets were above the median.
While we are pleased with this improvement we are far from satisfied and remain focused on improving overall investment performance as Dick has previously mentioned.
Fixed income performance continues to be positive with the majority of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
And our mathematical equity performance remains strong with the majority of strategies outperforming their benchmarks across all time periods presented.
Total company long-term net outflows were $3.9 billion compared to $3.6 billion in outflows in the fourth quarter of last year.
Taken in their respective parts fundamental equity posted first quarter net outflows of $1.8 billion versus $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
This 30% improvement was driven by an increase in gross sales.
Mathematical equity strategies had net outflows of $2.4 billion in the quarter compared to $1.6 billion in outflows in the prior quarter.
This pickup in net outflows was driven by a $1.2 billion institutional redemption.
Despite outflows during the quarter INTECH's performance is excellent and our product set is highly relevant for the current environment.
As a result we're starting to see renewed interest from U.S.
and non-U.S.
clients in both their seasoned strategies and new lower volatility products.
Fixed income flows were $300 million for the quarter down from the fourth quarter but this marked the 17th consecutive quarter of positive net flows for the business.
Despite the recent slowdown in net sales we remain optimistic about the prospects for this business in both the retail and institutional channels.
Turning to revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue decreased by 1% in the quarter as higher management fees were more than offset by lower private account performance fees.
Performance fees in our mutual funds were negative $21.9 million for the quarter which was flat to last quarter.
Additionally as we have said previously due to the 3-year nature of this calculation we expect this level of negative mutual fund performance fees to continue for the next several quarters.
First quarter operating expenses increased by less than 1% compared to the prior quarter.
Employee compensation increased $9.2 million due to a variety of factors including a year-end variable compensation adjustment in the prior quarter seasonally higher payroll taxes and retirement contributions and an increase in commissions due to higher gross sales quarter-over-quarter.
The quarterly compensation-to-revenue ratio was just under 35% which is within the range we have discussed previously.
Marketing and advertising decreased $2.4 million mostly due to the lack of seasonal advertising and G&amp;A was down $1.6 million.
We continue to hold the line on our discretionary expenditures but as I've mentioned in the past we are careful not to deprive the business of the resources we believe are necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
Finally just a quick look at the balance sheet.
During the quarter we raised our quarterly dividend 17% to $0.07 a share.
This brings our annual dividend payout ratio to approximately 50%.
Additionally we reinvested in the business by adding $77 million in net new seed capital primarily for further funding of existing products that have good performance and are showing significant promise.
Lastly we continued the anti-dilutive stock buyback program and returned $4 million of capital to shareholders this quarter through these purchases.
Now as Dick mentioned in the prologue we'd like to proactively address a number of questions that we have received from our shareholders and analysts before opening it up to live Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bruce.
I think the first question that is most prominently asked by the folks we contacted is could we please provide any additional color around investment performance and our fundamental equity business? And I acknowledged earlier we agree and accept that that is the most important element of performance that we can deliver.
On Page 12 of the presentation the 3- and 5-year charts that you see reflect the impact of some seriously challenging performance in 2010 and '11.
We had a stronger 2012 but we still have a ways to go to heal those records.
I noted earlier in my comments that the first quarter of 2013 is off to a slower start than we would like but it is much too short a period of time to draw any significant conclusions.
And having looked across the larger funds in significant detail at the reasons and idiosyncratic issues creating that underperformance I can tell you that I remain very confident in our process and in our teams.
And I don't look to draw too much of a conclusion from this one quarter's performance.
Perhaps I should say one more word about what Enrique Chang will be doing when he arrives and how that fits into our efforts to improve performance.
As we've talked about our prior quarterly calls at the beginning of 2012 we implemented Project Focus and the Janus platform with the intent to making sure that our process with clients were clear that our actions were aligned with those promises and that our resources were aligned with both our actions and the client promises.
And we took some steps that we previously discussed to strengthen the team.
We view the addition of Mr.
Chang as a very positive contribution along those same lines.
He's philosophically aligned with what we're trying to do and he can help us strengthen and improve and sharpen our process but he doesn't represent a change of significance in our investment philosophy or where our alpha comes from.
As a proven people and process manager he's going to help us make sure we deliver the highest possible level of excellence to our clients but again he doesn't represent a significant change in investment philosophy or what clients can expect in terms of client promises from us.
He'll have the management of the day-to-day equity investment team and contribute across multi-asset portfolios new product development and firm-wide leadership.
Again we're a little bit hamstrung in the sense that he is a contractual commitment which requires him to have a gardening leave through into September and he can't start with us until that date and we're very much looking forward to his joining at that time.
The second question that came to us was so more specificity please around what is driving flow activity.
On Slide 13 we've tried to pull back the layers of the onion around that flow picture to give you a better idea of what is driving our results.
In the first quarter we experienced a 22% increase in gross sales and you can see that on this slide.
It was primarily driven by improvement in our growth core strategies as well as increase in fixed income sales.
In the growth and core discipline the quarter-over-quarter increase clearly the result of an improving market environment for active U.S.
equity managers and we are seeing particular strength in strategies that have put up strong performance over the last 2 to 3 years.
And obviously a lesser extent to those that only put up a better 2012.
On the fixed income side we're continuing to see strength across our strategies on a gross sales basis.
Despite the improvement in a gross sales picture on a total company basis we experienced a 17% increase in gross redemptions driven by our mathematical equity fixed income and value franchises.
As we mentioned in presentation the pickup in INTECH's redemptions was driven primarily by a single $1.2 billion loss mandate.
Despite this loss INTECH continues to hold the #1 market share position for quantitative managers in the active U.S.
institutional space and we're continued to be optimistic about their medium-term future because they're doing a very good job for their clients in investment performance.
In our fixed-income franchise we experienced a noticeable increase in gross redemptions during the quarter which we believe was driven by a change in investor sentiment as improved confidence led to some rotation back into equities.
Their performance continues to be solid and we continue to be very optimistic about the future of our fixed income business.
In our value discipline we saw an increase of redemptions of approximately 31% during the quarter which is primarily driven by our mid-cap value product and its relative underperformance compared to its index.
Let me turn it over to Bruce for Slide 14 and some other questions.
There are 3 other topics of considerable interest that include capital deployment compensation and performance fees and I will take them in order.
Based on past earning calls and recent discussions with many of you it is clear that there's interest in better understanding how we look at our capital structure with an emphasis on how management determines when and how to return cash to shareholders.
On Slide 14 you can see the hierarchy of cash uses and how we go about our capital-planning process.
We start by reserving capital as required by regulators to run our business as well as a liquidity buffer to maintain flexibility.
While the business is not capital intensive this step does require that we maintain minimum capital levels in all of our entities.
Second we look at our upcoming liabilities and set aside capital for contractual obligations recurring programmatic payments and planned debt repayment.
Third we look for areas in which we can invest in our business.
We plan for both organic and inorganic investment opportunities which can include seed funding distribution or investment team build-outs advertising spend and/or acquisitions to name a few.
Lastly after all these factors we look for ways to give capital back to shareholders through dividends stock buybacks or debt retirement.
As an operating principle you know that we believe a strong balance sheet aligns the interest of all of our stakeholders.
Since the financial crisis of 2008 we have been in a phase of de-leveraging in order to strengthen our balance sheet and regain and maintain an investment grade rating.
Over this time we have reduced debt outstanding by $583 million.
Although we believe this was the right decision it has constrained our ability to return cash to shareholders through other means.
Having said that in parallel with debt reduction we have nevertheless gradually increased our dividend.
Following the increase in our dividend that we announced today our regular dividend payout ratio is now in the higher-end of our peer group.
Finally last year we initiated our anti-dilutive stock buyback program that will offset any dilution as a result of employee compensation.
Management is constantly evaluating the amount of capital we return to shareholders.
And as our business fundamentals begin to improve and debt levels decrease to more comfortable levels we will look for opportunities to increase the amount of cash that we're giving back to shareholders.
As we look at our industry and the percentage of annual cash flow from operations that our peers return to shareholders it is clear that we are currently an outlier as our focus has been on reducing leverage on the balance sheet.
Over the last 3 years the industry has typically returned anywhere from 70% to 80% of annual cash flow from operations to shareholders in the form of regular dividends stock buybacks and special dividends.
As a long-term goal we intend to move more in line with the industry payout levels but this will need to be supported by improving fundamentals and a continuation of a strong balance sheet.
Compensation this quarter was sure to generate some questions.
As a matter of practice we do not intend to provide quarterly compensation reconciliations.
However given the size of the change of this quarter we have provided a bridge on Slide 15.
Competition increased $9.2 million from 4 factors which we have outlined on the slide.
$3.1 million due to year-end variable compensation adjustment in the prior quarter.
In the fourth quarter management made the decision to reduce compensation for senior executives and to further align long-term interest of employees with our shareholders by paying a higher portion of variable compensation in the form of stock versus cash.
$2.4 million from seasonally higher retirement contributions and payroll taxes.
As we expect each year we see retirement contributions and payroll taxes increase in the first quarter but then return to a lower amount as the year progresses and limits are reached.
We would not anticipate this amount to repeat in the remaining quarters of the year.
$1.9 million from commissions and base salaries.
Base salaries increased as we have invested strategically in the business over the course of the year.
And in January annual merit increases went into effect as well.
The strategic initiatives that are driving most of this increase include a build-out of our liquid alternatives team continued expansion of our fixed income team and further investments and distribution.
The increase in commissions was driven by a 22% increase in company-wide gross sales quarter-over-quarter and another $1.8 million in other items which includes such things as annual increases to group insurance costs severance costs and a handful of other items.
Remember a large component of our variable compensation is based on profits and will fluctuate with the operating profits of the firm on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
We believe that this structure provides the proper alignment between our employees and our shareholders.
For the quarter compensation as a percentage of revenue was 34.7% which is at the high-end of the range we provided at the fourth quarter call primarily as a result of the seasonal increases in retirement contributions and payroll taxes.
These seasonal costs will not repeat in the second quarter so all things being equal we expect to see compensation come down slightly in future quarters.
The comp-to-revenue ratio should remain in the low to mid-30s going forward.
As with all of our expenses we diligently oversee our compensation structures to align employee interest with shareholders while also ensuring we retain first-class talent throughout the organization.
And finally a quick look at performance fees.
Even though we have spent a lot of time on performance fees in the past based on some feedback and questions we have received during the quarter we thought it would be a good idea to provide some additional insight into the outlook for performance fees.
Two primary factors contribute to that calculation of performance fees which are the 3-year rolling relative performance by fund; and the average size of the fund over the measurement period.
Given the nature of the calculation and the uncertainty of future performance it's difficult to predict future outcomes.
But we do know the historical performance.
So we can model potential outcomes under various scenarios which is what we've provided on Slide 16.
This page reflects different revenue paths under varying degrees of future relative performance.
This is not intended as guidance to future performance fees but it does provide a range of possible outcomes given different performance levels.
On the right side of the slide we have included 3 potential performance scenarios and the year-over-year change in revenue that we would expect in those scenarios for 2013 and '14.
In looking at the page you'll see that the performance fee revenues is currently close to the mathematical bottom and the downside is limited.
Given the relative underperformance currently embedded in the performance fee calculation we anticipate being at our current level for the next several quarters.
That's all for the prepared answers to questions and I think we have time for a few follow-up questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on your discussion of compensation.
On the Slide 15 that you were referencing and the guidance of $72 million that looks like it's similar to your comp this quarter excluding the seasonal pension and payroll tax that you point out.
But it also -- the $72 million it looks like it also includes the $3 million you label as year-end comp adjustments and through the other category severance.
So I'm just wondering why would you be factoring in year-end comp adjustments and severance into run-rate comp.
Cynthia I think -- we folded that in because that was an adjustment that took place in the fourth quarter okay.
And for comparison purposes that kind of drove down the comp cost in the fourth quarter relative to what would be the normal rate going forward.
Research Division</strong> But it's shown as an increase I guess.
Well we can continue this offline but...
If this is confusing at all please give us a ring after the call and we'll be happy to help you out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the use of capital thanks for the slide on that.
Just wondering if you talked about why would you guys trading at a lower multiple versus peers you would increase the dividend versus buyback shares.
I think our take on it when we look at it it's clearly an option.
Our view was that we had room to increase the dividend that was highly effective way for us to return capital to shareholders.
And our feeling was that we were at a slightly lower rate relative to our peers and that would be the best approach for us to take.
We'll take our next question from Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping first you could give us an update on the Dai-ichi funding.
Did anything fund this quarter? Or when are you expecting that to fund throughout the course of the year? And how should we be thinking about it by asset class? This is Dick.
They funded about half of their total commitment so far and we expect the remaining half to come in through the balance of the year.
And what was -- was there a second part to that question I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> The second part was just where it's funding.
Did it show up on the growth equity and fixed income bucket this quarter? Is that similar going forward? Yes it's a fairly diversified book of things that they've invested in including a very substantial part portion in fixed income but also including a number of equity products.
So it isn't just in 1 bucket or 2.
It's a little more diversified.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just curious -- when you guys look at performance and it's a helpful way you guys laid out the slide deck of frequent investor questions.
I'm just curious more of kind of theoretical question on it -- when you look at performance and you're comparing versus Morningstar categories or quartiles I guess how do you think about it versus benchmarks? Is it more about improving performance versus peer funds or versus benchmarks? Or is it -- is the conversation evolving at all between those 2 things I guess is my broader question? I think we have to be clear on a product-by-product basis what our promise is and that promise is usually articulated relative to an index for a great many clients.
But if you look at the flows and the business outcome of our performance it's also heavily affected by performance relative to peers.
And so we have to integrate those 2 views as we look -- think about our performance because they're both important.
With the obvious rise in ETS and readily available passive investments as a very serious competitor in our business that certainly elevates the absolute performance versus index probably higher than it used to be in the retail business.
That's always been the first element of analysis in the institutional business.
And lastly I'll mention as you know as Bruce has outlined in great detail our performance fees are relative to the benchmarks not relative to the peer group.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up for me.
On the alternative side you guys have been very active there it seems like.
I'm just curious for a sense of where you view the long-term built-out of that business going obviously you've been adding in liquid alternatives.
Anything else you think is incremental from here? And what are you doing to expand through distribution channels? I am convinced that our industry has not provided adequate answers in terms of asset allocation because portfolios of stocks and bonds plus or minus REITs plus or minus maybe some long-only commodities even is insufficiently diversified as a return stream to get people good risk control characteristics especially in the face of the sort of volatile global macroeconomics which seem to be a constant feature.
As a consequence we pushed into liquid alternatives as an answer to that question.
Where can I get true diversification? Where can I build a piece of diversified return that helps my overall asset allocation and helps -- let me sleep at night in the face of a lot of volatility in the world? I think that remains the fundamental driving thought behind our alts business.
And one could imagine using our liquid alts platform to extend in some directions to build out across that idea in different ways where institutional and retail client base is.
That said we have a limited capacity to invest.
We -- our wallet is not unending and as we make investments we need to hold them accountable for success before we continue to invest in successive rounds.
So I think right now we'd very much like to see our liquid alts platform develop success.
We think it's on the right path.
We think it's an excellent product with a great future.
But it's going to take some time for that to generate client relationships and flows.
As that happens I think we then become more open to successive rounds of development.
We'll take our next question from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on Perkins.
The owners I think put back the remaining of their interest to Janus as was their option.
A skeptic would say that it could be a lack of confidence in the business given performance in sales.
How do you interpret the exercise of the put option? And is there additional action that you either need to take or are taking to kind of protect that franchise? I think that these sorts of strategic transactions involving the transition from sort of an owner-founder culture into next generations have a normal life and the incentives around the purchase of equity in Perkins from some years ago ran their course and we were not surprised to have this event happen.
We have come to a substantial agreement on new compensation structures and plans with the folks at Perkins.
We believe that that's very stable.
And we and they are excited about the future of their business.
So I think in this case the cynical perspective would be not quite right.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then to follow-up on that a question on Dai-ichi.
I think part of the relationship is a cross-selling with DIAM.
Where does that stand? And just to flesh out your answer to his question on the -- I think it's $2 billion that needs to be invested of which you said half has been invested so far was the majority of that half in the first quarter or did it happen before the beginning of the year? Just a little more color to see how much is in these 1Q numbers.
Well I think -- actually nothing even have that number right in front of me.
I'd have to go back and remember where we ended the year and what we said on the last quarterly conference call about progress.
So forgive me but I don't have the exact split between fourth quarter last year and this quarter at hand.
Research Division</strong> The DIAM? On DIAM we have approximately $900 million of Janus managed AUM raised in Tokyo.
And actually it's $875 million apologies.
At March 31 raised with the help of our colleagues at DIAM in Tokyo.
So that has been a very successful and productive relationship for us.
And we expect and hope to continue to be good partners with those folks and continue to raise additional assets as time goes forward.
We are all subject to the changing demands and desires of the retail marketplace in Tokyo because what we do with DIAM is effectively use their good auspices and technical help to position funds for sale through bank and other networks in Tokyo.
At the moment it's mostly fixed income product but as their appetites change we hope to stay in front of that.
We'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bruce I guess you mentioned on the call about INTECH you're seeing some pickup in demand.
Can you talk about that just in conversations or RFPs meetings kind of give some context around that? This is Dick.
I'll hit that one for Bruce.
INTECH is experiencing an increase in activities in terms of consultant opportunities and client meetings and incoming calls folks who are interested in what they're doing for a living.
It takes a while for a pipeline to fill from that end through to finals through to flows.
So we're encouraged by the pickup in activity but it's going to take some time for that to fully come forward in flows.
And I'll just say one thing about INTECH's evolving performance.
Last year at this time the 1- 3- and 5-year gross of fee outperformance of their benchmark was 65 57 and 54.
And this year it's 191.
So their -- the strength of their performance track records has improved substantially over the last 12 months.
That also takes some time to work its way into the marketplace and to see the full effect of it in flows.
So we think they're very much on the right track.
We think the leadership change there is working extremely well.
We are very disappointed with the flows that we have seen but we remain really optimistic about the future of that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just on fixed income that we saw pickup in redemptions you highlighted in a more industry trends with regards to greater demand for equity.
So is that how you think this business will unfold if we see broader pickup in equity demand we should see fixed income redemptions pick up? Or are there other things happening within your client base? I'm not aware of other things happening within our client base that I should call your attention to.
As to the correlation of flows between equity and fixed I wouldn't want to make a bold prediction here.
I think sometimes they trade off against each other.
And sometimes they both benefit from movements out of cash.
And it's a little bit hard to predict.
Also a significant part of our fixed income business is institutional and therefore can be lumpy.
So I wouldn't say more than I think they're doing -- they continue to do a very good job.
I think they continue to have good prospects for future growth.
We're optimistic about their business as well.
We'll go next to Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick just -- can you give us a little perspective on the distribution channel and maybe some of the changes if any that you're making there that could help drive your gross sales? And in particular if you think about the volatility around the performance this year just for the core Janus business and sort of the phenomenon of good year bad year what impact is that having sort of demand? I think maybe is there more of a longer-term change in terms of volatility of outperformance that we should be thinking about? I think short-term performance 1 quarter performance is not an adequate foundation to say much.
Clearly our funds that have put up consistent good performance have successfully been sold at the front of the industry.
Janus Triton Fund I think was first in the Morningstar category for its peer group.
Janus Venture Fund was sixth in its category Morningstar category peer group out of 203 funds.
The Enterprise Fund was 18th out of 205 funds.
Where we have consistent strong performance I think our distribution has proven it can sell at the front of the pack.
And it's no mystery that in some of the other funds our larger funds as I said at the start we had a particularly challenging '10 and '11.
We had a better '12 but we need to continue that.
And we came out slower than we would like in the first quarter of '13 but again that's such a short period I don't react too much to that first quarter number.
We'll take our next question from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question goes back to your discussion on capital management return.
And so I'm curious what would be the key metric that we should be looking forward to assume a 50% [ph] capital return relative to net income? Bill good question.
I think as you look at that waterfall slide you can kind of see the way that we cascade through that capital plan.
We mentioned in our comments that over time as we get our balance sheet in the position that we would like it that we'd like to get ourselves more toward market standards we've seen in the recent history anyway market standards of 70% or 80% return of cash.
And I think we'd like to try to march in that direction if we can but that will be contingent upon our ability to now secure and stable balance sheet and credit rating.
Research Division</strong> Just to qualify is that a function of organic growth like some of your peers? Or is it just net debt or EBITDA coverage ratio? Well it'll be impacted by both.
I mean clearly the business fundamentals will drive our ultimate decision on that.
Research Division</strong> And my second question goes back to your discussion on margins.
And obviously the average assets not obviously but most likely average assets being up into the second quarter just given the end of period dynamics in Q1.
Can you give us a sense of the comp level -- the comp guidance for the second quarter? Would it be a margin calculation as a percentage of revenue? Or in absolute dollars that we should be thinking about to reflect the change in revenues? I think we've tried to frame this compensation discussion in terms of low to mid-30s as comp as a percentage -- yes comp as a percentage of revenues.
We've tended to be firmly in that range.
This quarter we're a little bit higher in that range than we have been for the reasons that we articulated.
If you take away the seasonal adjustments that took place in the first quarter that won't repeat it gets us down into that 33-ish percent range.
I think that sits firmly within that range that we've articulated for you.
It will move around a little bit Bill but that's I guess the best that I would frame it.
We would look at it more in terms of ratios would be the yes.
We'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just curious to get your take on sort of the outlook for asset allocation trends maybe coming out of the first quarter.
So would you sort of expect retail investors to continue to gradually move up the risk curve assuming the broader markets remain constructive? Or do you feel like we're still sort of in somewhat of a holding pattern? I think it's a really hard moment in time to talk about patterns because we have no sustained trend and deflation with contraction in Europe et cetera a slowdown in manufacturing in China deflation is the issue of the fear of the day.
But the private sector balance sheets and company prospects remain pretty strong.
So I think it's pretty hard to talk about single path expectations going forward from here.
And we're not -- it's not crucial in our planning for us to make that sort of short-term path-dependent prediction.
At the moment -- what's more fundamental to our planning is we know or we think we know over the long term investors can't possibly get where they're going unless they come back more substantially into equities.
That's the first thing we think we know.
And the second thing we think we know is we think people need more diversification in their asset allocation.
And those are the 2 truths that we're focused on at the moment.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second can you just sort of give us an update on -- in terms of what you're seeing on the M&amp;A front as it relates to kind of supply and the level of competition out there and maybe any color on pricing trends that you may be seeing? Well obviously we follow that market with great interest.
We'd like to stay well-informed.
It is surprising to us I think that given the really generous financing terms available in the world there haven't been more deals done.
I think the uncertainty in the regulatory environment and the uncertainty in the economic environment is stalling what would otherwise be a pretty active period in M&amp;A.
In terms of pricing the deals that get done seem to be fully priced but there aren't tons and tons of them.
So I don't have anything particularly insightful to say about pricing trends on the M&amp;A side.
I expect that if the world doesn't go off the rails in some deflationary process that you'll start to see an increasing amount of M&amp;A activity because of the very accommodating financing terms available in the world.
We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You guys have a 1940 Act Global Bond Fund.
And it grew from about 0 in February in terms of AUM to about $230 million in March.
I'm just wondering where did these flows come from.
Was this your balance sheet in terms of seed capital? Was this a Dai-ichi general account investment? What really went into this fund? It's mostly Dai-ichi.
I think a big part of it was Dai-ichi related flows.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you know when -- do you know when this fund will have a 3-year track record? As I sit here I don't have that answer but we can follow-up with you after the call.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just final question here is Enrique Chang you said will probably start around September.
Should we expect any unusual charges over the next few quarters and an increase in comp even though modest due to his addition or maybe some members of his team to? Craig I don't think you'll see anything outsized as it pertains to Enrique joining us.
We'll take our next question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the added color.
I'm looking at Page 16 of the performance fees.
Just a quick question just to drill into a little bit on some of the -- one of the assumptions you have.
And kind of the middle there where the -- we have I guess there's kind of benchmark performance.
You get this pop-up -- this improvement I should say in performance fees in '14.
Is that mainly -- just trying to drill into that is that mainly just because you're rolling off a tough 2010 and therefore the relative looks better? Or is it partially driven by just lower average assets? I'm just trying to get a sense for some of the assumptions in that.
Your first presumption is right.
It's primarily roll-off in the performance from prior years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just to go I mean quick modeling question.
I know you've covered comp pretty well.
But if I look at some of the other line items I know there's some seasonality in marketing but G&amp;A and the other distribution costs they've all seemed to -- at least versus our expectation came in somewhat lighter.
How should we think of those going forward? I mean is it going to be an unusually low quarter for some of those? And particularly as you roll out new products new strategies at some point you've got to spend to help market those and get those out there.
So how should be thinking of some of those line items? Right.
Well on the marketing and advertising line we've pointed out I think in the past that there is some seasonality in the fourth quarter which can throw off your comparisons going into the first part of the year.
That's in effect what's going on here.
I think that's really the only time of the year that you'll see things that are seasonal in nature and marketing and advertising.
Otherwise it's hard to give guidance on some of the smaller bucket items in terms of seasonality.
I mean they'll come and go.
But as it pertains to distribution you've heard Dick's comments on our desire to expand some of our channels.
It is my expectation that we will continue to invest in those channels.
And so you may see some periodic lift in that as we go forward.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question.
We'll go to Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the first question the improvement in the sales and/or flows on the retail side I guess.
It looks like January clearly had some benefit to that.
Is that fair to say that there was a boost from January specifically? And in terms of some of the new products that you've introduced over the last few years I'm just -- it doesn't look like at this point there's the potential for a breakthrough and that any improvement that would be material in sales and flows would come from traditional products.
Is that fair to say? And then finally is there any new message that wholesalers sales marketing is delivering in the market today regarding new products new messages that could potentially provide some spark here as we move forward? This is Dick.
To your first question yes January was a contributor on the retail side especially.
To your second question the way we think it around here a new product which we develop is a 3- to 5-year time period before it really makes a significant impact.
What I tell folks when I speak internally here is that the most important thing we can do by a wide wide margin by an exponential factor is to take care of our existing clients and by taking care of our existing clients I mean deliver good performance and good client relationship to those people.
And that is vastly more important than all the new products and new-fangled ideas you can stand on their head.
If you do that core job well then you can be permission-ed to develop your business in a successful path over a 3- to 5-year time period.
And that's really how we think about it.
And lastly the third part of your question was wholesalers.
Our wholesalers have been delivering for 3 to 6 months -- 6 months probably.
A message around our strategic thought which is that a huge part of the buildup of cash on the retail side for retail investors was a fairly eloquent statement that they felt poorly treated by their asset allocation.
They experienced too much volatility and risk particularly through that '08 '09 cycle and that scared them.
And then with all the elements of global uncertainty that everybody reads about in the paper every day people essentially withdraw from the system and go to cash.
That essentially if you think about what that is on a repeated pattern basis it ends up being fear-based market timing in the sense that people sell at the wrong time.
And then when the market goes way up as it has since the first quarter of 2009 and they see they've missed 125% return or whatever it's been then they get sort of cajoled by advisers and others to come back in having missed that terrific period of returns.
And so it's fairly predictable that fear-based market timing doesn't end well for the investors.
The message we've taken out is that a more conservative asset allocation something that you can sustain through periods of volatility is a much wiser course for our clients.
And that doesn't mean there isn't a good home for some more aggressive more volatile products and investments.
Certainly that can have -- that can be a component of your investing.
But overall we believe clients need to be advised and they need to follow a path of conservative asset allocation so that they don't lose faith at the wrong periods and go into cash and essentially miss the key market return opportunities.
So that's the message that we've been taking out to clients.
And it's -- I think as you can see consistent with other strategic thoughts we've mentioned on this call.
And it's been working we find that folks appreciate it and understand it and are acting somewhat in accordance with that as they move forward.
So that's the new message from the wholesaling force that's out there.
It obviously supports some new product development along the lines of our liquid alts but it also all of our existing products have a key place in that message as well.
I guess in terms of final comment I would just like to thank everybody for your time and attention today.
I hope the new format and information structure that we've offered is increasingly useful for you.
Please get back to us with your feedback.
And as always we'll try and be as good in servicing you as we possibly can be.
Thanks for your time and attention.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.