Good morning my name is Nicole and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclosure which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospectives anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date of these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the second quarter 2013 Janus Capital Group earnings call.
Let me start by giving you a bit of my perspective on this past quarter and then as usual I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen.
I'd like to call your attention to really 3 main elements for this quarter.
The first most obvious element is you've seen EPS for the second quarter of $0.08 per share compared to $0.15 in the first quarter.
It's important to note that that includes $0.04 per share noncash charge to the extinguishment of debt on our convertible debt exchange and another loss related to our seed capital program and Bruce will take you through that in more detail in a minute.
The second thing I want to call your attention to as the obvious major element of this quarter is the net outflows that we experienced in the quarter which were clearly impacted by some shifting market dynamics.
But very importantly the fact that we haven't yet adequately healed the underperformance in some of our larger investment portfolios and obviously also affected by some portfolio manager changes that took place in the quarter.
Anticipating some questions it's not possible for us to give you a clean attribution across the reasons for various client decisions.
Many of those decisions are made for a complex set of reasons.
And if we tried to attribute to a single reason I think we'd give you the wrong impression.
But it is clear that a combination of some underperformance and the effects of portfolio manager change were active in the results of the quarter.
As I mentioned at the start I thought I should cover 3 important elements of the quarter.
We talked a bit about the earnings per share.
We talked a bit about the net flows.
And the third element is this portfolio manager change element I'd like to address.
Portfolio manager changes are a function of our business.
Particularly when performance isn't as good as one might hope one has to take a look at whether we have all the right people in all the right seats.
During this past quarter we've clearly made some significant changes.
And they do impact sales and redemptions in a negative way and we saw some of that in the second quarter.
But it's important to note that I am more confident now in our portfolio management team than I have been at any time since I started.
I think particularly if you count the addition of Enrique Chang who actually won't start until September the team is really in better shape than it has been since my arrival.
And so while these changes have a short-term disruptive effect I'm very confident that we've got the right people in the right places to deliver excellence going forward.
A couple of other more minor notes about the quarter just to touch on we maintained our financial discipline through this period with margins increasing in the quarter to 27.1%.
And we obviously took some steps to further strengthen our balance sheet through cash flow from operations and our convertible note exchange which Bruce will tell you about more as part of his presentation.
Finally I'm excited today to announce several changes to our executive leadership team.
Our CFO Bruce Koepfgen is being promoted to a newly established role as President of Janus Capital Group.
Jennifer McPeek who's currently Senior Vice President and Treasurer is being promoted to CFO both effective August 1.
I congratulate both of these terrific people on their promotions.
They'll do a terrific job for us as they have already.
And it should position us even more strongly in our leadership team to help drive the business forward.
The last thing I'll call your attention to is the structure of this call.
Last quarter we tried something new.
We built in some Q&amp;A based on discussions with analysts and stockholders prior to this meeting.
That seemed to have been very well received.
The feedback we have heard has been good.
So we're going to continue that.
And we have some preprepared Q&amp;A following Bruce's remarks that we'll go through.
And then of course following that as always on this call we'll take your live questions.
With that said let me turn it over to Mr.
Bruce Koepfgen.
Good morning everyone.
For those of you who would like to follow along on the deck I will start my comments on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.08 compared to $0.15 in the first quarter.
Second quarter earnings per share included $0.04 per share noncash loss on the early retirement of debt.
It also includes $0.02 per share loss primarily attributable to the mark-to-market impact of our seed capital program.
By comparison the first quarter included a $0.02 per share benefit on investment gains.
So the total quarter-over-quarter noncash change attributable to investment gains and losses totaled $0.04 a share.
Second quarter average AUM of $164.2 billion was 1.5% higher than the prior quarter driven by market strength.
Revenue of $215.8 million increased 1% from the first quarter as higher management fees were partially offset by lower private account performance fees.
Operating expenses of $157.4 million decreased by 1% primarily from mark-to-market adjustments and long-term incentive compensation.
Operating income of $58.4 million was 7% higher than the prior quarter reflecting both an increase in top line revenue and continued financial discipline.
And lastly our operating margin improved to 27.1% from 25.5% in the first quarter.
Turning to investment performance.
As of June 30 45% of fundamental equity assets were performing above the median of Morningstar peers on a 1-year basis.
This number represents an improvement from a year ago and only 41% of our assets were above the median.
Fixed income performance continues to be strong with 100% of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over the 3- and 5-year time periods.
And our long-term mathematical equity performance remains very solid with the majority of the strategies outperforming their benchmarks across 3- and 5-year periods.
On Slide 7 total company long-term net outflows were $5.4 billion compared to $3.9 billion in outflows in the first quarter.
Taken in their component parts fundamental equity posted second quarter net outflows of $4.3 billion versus $1.8 billion in the prior quarter.
This decline from the first quarter was driven by an increase in redemptions as well as the expected seasonal slowdown in gross sales.
Although difficult to precisely attribute the reasons for this increase in redemptions they were largely driven by the continued underperformance in several of our largest fundamental equity funds and the changes in portfolio management that took place during the quarter that Dick previously addressed.
Mathematical equity flows improved in the quarter with net outflows of $1.2 billion compared to $2.4 billion of outflows in the first quarter.
The improvement in net outflows was driven by the large institutional redemption in the first quarter which did not repeat in the second quarter.
While gross sales levels remain low we are seeing activity and interest increased in many of INTECH's newer strategies including low volatility and non-U.S.
products.
We are encouraged by this interest and optimistic about the business going forward.
And fixed income flows were $100 million for the quarter down from $300 million in the prior quarter.
Despite the fact that industry-wide fixed income flows were negative for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008 Janus flows were positive for the 18th consecutive quarter.
Turning to revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue increased by 1% in the quarter as higher management fees were only partially offset by lower private account performance fees.
Performance fees in our mutual funds were negative $22.5 million for the quarter which continues to be close to the mathematical bottom of the calculation.
As we have said previously due to the 3-year nature of the calculation we would expect this level of negative mutual fund performance fees to continue through the remainder of the year.
Performance fees in our private accounts were positive $300 000 compared to $2.3 million in the first quarter.
This amount will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter depending upon how private accounts with performance fees perform against their respective benchmarks.
As we look at operating expenses there's really not much of interest to report on the expense line other than possibly to point out that our continued discipline in controlling discretionary expenses coupled with the increase in revenues resulted in 160-basis-point improvement in operating margins quarter-over-quarter.
And finally a quick look at the balance sheet.
We successfully exchanged $110 million of the company's existing 3.25% convertible senior notes due in 2014 for $117 million of new 3.25% convertible senior notes due in 2018 during the second quarter.
I will discuss this transaction in more detail later in the presentation but we are pleased to be able to take advantage of favorable conditions in the marketplace which served to increase our financial flexibility.
During the quarter cash equivalents increased by 9% driven by cash flow from operations of $67 million.
Now lastly in the second quarter we paid a $0.07 per share or $13 million quarterly dividend and repurchased $9 million of stock via our anti-dilutive buyback program.
We'd like to address a few questions that appear to be of interest to shareholders and analysts.
They include: first a further detail on the change in quarterly flows; second the quarterly change in earnings per share with particular emphasis on the below-of-the-line items; and lastly an overview of our convertible note exchange.
And with that I'll kick it back to Dick to speak about quarterly flows and then I'll take the last 2 questions.
Thanks Bruce.
Turning to Page 12 of the presentation.
We have attempted to address and anticipate your questions around the changes in flows from quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously we were -- and remain frustrated with the level of outflows.
But improving the investment performance particularly in some of these funds where we have changed portfolio management is going to take some time.
On the good news side INTECH's flows were $1.2 billion better than in the first quarter and that can be explained primarily by the absence of a single large redemption.
But as Bruce noted earlier we're encouraged and optimistic about the future of their business.
Perkins flows were roughly flat.
As Bruce noticed earlier the Janus fixed income flows were slightly worse but remained positive overall reflecting the excellent job that team continues to do although at this point in the face of some difficult market conditions in terms of industry outflows in the quarter.
Janus equity experienced a $2.6 billion worsening of its net flows which as we've noted really relates to some underperformance and some expiration of outflows related to portfolio manager turnover and some interruption of inflows related to portfolio manager also.
As I noted above it would be natural for everybody to say "What's the attribution across that set of causes?" And it would be very difficult to give you any accurate answer because we don't have full transparency in every client decision and usually those decisions are made for a combination of reasons.
With that said I will turn it back to Bruce to address some additional questions.
In looking at our financial results for the quarter we thought it would be helpful to walk through the specific items impacting second quarter per share relative to the first quarter.
On Slide 13 you can see a breakout of the operating and nonoperating factors that bridge our first quarter and second quarter earnings per share.
First we had positive operating results for the quarter resulting in roughly a $0.01 increase in earnings per share quarter-over-quarter.
This improvement was due to the increase in average assets during the quarter and our continued focus on financial discipline resulting in lower expenses.
Secondly we had a noncash charge of $0.04 per share in the second quarter related to the convertible senior note exchange.
And finally the investment gains and losses line was responsible for a quarter-over-quarter change in earnings per share of $0.04.
The quarter-over-quarter change was a result of the difference between the $4.6 million net investment gain in the first quarter and a $6.1 million of net investment losses in the second quarter.
As many of you know we have invested meaningfully in our seed capital portfolio over the last few years.
And as of the end of the second quarter this portfolio was $341 million.
With a portfolio of this size it's not unexpected to see mark-to-market changes of this magnitude.
Turning to the next slide.
We also wanted to walk through the convertible note exchange which we successfully completed during the quarter.
As we have discussed in the past a strong balance sheet is very important to management at Janus.
In the second quarter we were presented with an opportunity that allowed us to capitalize on high demand in this convertible note market.
This demand enabled us to refinance at extremely attractive rates extend our existing debt maturities increase our financial flexibility and maintain our presence in the convertible notes segment of the capital markets.
During the quarter we executed a successful exchange of $110 million of existing 3.25% 2014 convertible senior notes for $117 million of newly issued 3.25% 2018 convertible senior notes.
We intend to retire the remaining $60 million of the 2014 convertible notes in July of 2014 at maturity with cash on hand.
The transaction will reduce pretax GAAP interest expense in the second half of 2013 by approximately $3.5 million and the additional financial flexibility provided by the transaction will allow us to retire existing long-term debt obligations should the opportunity arise in the future.
The 2018 convertible senior notes carry an annual cash interest rate of 0.75% and are convertible into shares of Janus common stock at a conversion premium of 25% or $10.86 per share.
In conjunction with the convertible note exchange we also entered into a note hedge and warrant transaction which will reduce the potential for future dilution to existing shareholders by effectively increasing the conversion premium on the 2018 convertible notes to 45% from 25% or $12.60 per share.
The reason we entered into this note exchange and warrant transaction is because we are optimistic about the prospects for Janus Capital Group and we wanted to protect our existing shareholders from the risk of future dilution.
That being said if we experience a meaningful increase in the stock price beyond the effective conversion premium of 45% we would expect to take measure of that at the time but quite likely to repurchase shares to offset any resulting dilution to existing shareholders.
We believe that this transaction further positions us to continue executing on our strategy and significantly increases our financial flexibility.
With that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping first to -- if you could just fill us in on what portion of the Dai-ichi agreement the distribution agreement there funded this quarter in which buckets potentially and total to-date from the beginning of the agreement? Yes.
Sure Matt.
We were about 60% into that program through the second quarter the total program being $2 billion.
And in the quarter I think we funded an additional $170 million in global investment grade.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up is just in terms of the performance on -- especially on INTECH it looks like it slipped quarter-over-quarter on the 1 year.
So I'm just hoping to get some color from you guys in terms of some of the drivers behind that and how that's being communicated to clients.
Sure this is Dick.
Thanks Matt for the question.
INTECH tends to be a very very effectively risk-controlled product set across their line of products.
And they can move around the index and the measure of how much is above or below can move around visibly as a result.
That can happen with the relatively modest amount of change in investment performance.
And so that's happened a little bit in this quarter.
There's no particular important message to it that we see.
INTECH's long-term performance remains very solid.
What they do works.
Under the new leadership of Adrian Banner over recent periods I think they've become even more effective and focused as a team.
We're very optimistic about what they're doing in some new products in terms of low volatility in terms of some income-oriented products and some international-oriented products.
And so we think they're on the right track going forward.
And I wouldn't draw too much of a message out of the rather modest changes to investment results over short periods of time.
And our next question will come from Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to follow up on Dai-ichi.
How regular is the dialogue with Dai-ichi and maybe if you can talk about what the nature of the dialogue is.
And once you meet that guaranteed investment threshold the $2 billion what are your expectations for additional investments after that? Are there any that you have or do you think things just kind of paused at that point? Thanks Ken.
I guess as a general statement I would say that the relationship with Dai-ichi is meeting or exceeding all expectations.
We have found a multiple opportunities to continue to work with them to expand our business in Japan.
The people that we are working most closely with are true professionals and a delight to interact with.
And we clearly share a common goal to advance the interest of Janus business.
So we are well on track.
The $2 billion is an initial amount that they've agreed to fund.
But I think it's safe to say that everyone on our side of the table and on theirs is looking for additional opportunities to expand our business in multiple areas.
I can't point to any particular ones at this time but I think it's safe to say that we are all equally incented to do that and the relationship so far has been extraordinary.
Bruce just let me add one last point to that.
As of June 30 we managed about $940 million of assets for DIAM which is the 50% owned affiliate of Dai-ichi.
And obviously what that represents is significant help from Dai-ichi in distributing our products in Japan.
And I'd just follow on with the same comments about DIAM that we've made about Dai-ichi.
It's just a wonderful working relationship.
To-date they've raised just short of $1 billion for us which is an extraordinary effort in a short period of time.
And again equally motivated to find new and different opportunities for us to work together in the future.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then maybe moving to compensation.
Can you talk about the impact of payroll tax this quarter? And were there any other unusual items in compensation? I know you've made a number of high-profile hires.
Wasn't sure if any -- there was any impact from those in terms of like buyout of bonuses or anything like that may have gone through this quarter.
I'll turn to -- I'll turn the payroll tax issue to Brennan.
But in terms of the compensation as a general statement I think comp-to-revenue ratios this quarter were 34.5% or so last quarter.
I think about 34.7% so well within the ranges that we have historically suggested to you.
Our comp programs as you know Ken are built off of bottom line profits not off of revenue.
So market movements and changes can impact those quarter-to-quarter mix is a little tough to predict with precision.
But I don't see anything in the compensation right now that would change our sense to that kind of low- to mid-30 percentages where we should be.
Research Division</strong> You used to have a payroll tax impact from 1Q to 2Q and it didn't look like we had it at this quarter.
Ken we did see that.
There was about a $1.5 million decline Q1 to Q2.
We normally see a pickup in payroll taxes in Q1 that did not repeat in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what made up that difference? Yes Ken this is what I was mentioning before.
It's hard to hit this with some precision.
I mean our comp line is going to change a little bit with market conditions and we saw some of that this quarter.
Our next question will come from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just first curious to get your take on some of the fund flow trend that we're seeing across the industry in terms of kind of the bond fund outflows more recently.
And any insights into trends as you look across your funds? Thanks Michael.
Obviously there's a lot of concern in fixed income markets and there's been a lot of volatility.
And June was a particularly tough period in rates for fixed income investors.
And the decision-making at the government and central bank level around policy and market intervention and uncertainty around those processes is going to drive volatility and fear in fixed income markets for a while.
So we haven't seen the great rotation that people talk about out of fixed income into equities in a big way but we've seen a lot of concern and fear in fixed income markets and that's clearly affected flows into fixed income.
I would say impossible for me to predict the future past in that zone.
Although certainly I would anticipate continuing volatility in fixed income around whatever central bankers and governments say and do for the near period.
That said our fixed income team continues to be doing just an excellent job.
And I think they'll continue to gain market share from everything I can see.
But the loss will clearly be affected by industry flows and which direction the river is flowing.
But again I don't think we've seen the great rotation by any means.
We haven't seen any sort of capitulation by fixed income investors by any means.
And we haven't seen the sustained rate rise that so many people expect yet.
So there's a lot of -- we're in the third inning of that sort of fixed income game or maybe second.
I think there's a lot left to go.
But our guys are doing a very good job.
They're well positioned.
And they continue to gain market share and we're very happy about our fixed income team.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then second it looks like marketing and advertising expense remained a bit low prior run rates.
So just wondering if that's related to some of the more recent performance trends and how should we be thinking about that line going forward? No Michael I really can't point anything special there.
I mean that's kind of steady state.
We've mentioned in the past that the whole management team here is highly sensitized to cost containment.
It's been a I think pleasant experience for me while I've been in this post while we haven't had to veer off our strategic path but there's nothing special going on in the marketing line.
We continue to expend or to spend money there as necessary to support the agenda.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is maybe I appreciate it's harder to parse flows between or why people left.
But I guess what I'm kind of curious about is maybe parsing it by distribution channel.
If you saw the pickup in the outflows come with the predominantly say sub-advised 401k platforms or is it coming from kind of individual investors? Any kind of incremental color about how the different distribution platforms are behaving? And then a follow-up question on INTECH.
We really don't have any breakout that's available to kind of parse the distribution channel impacts by virtue of the changes.
So...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well then maybe shifting over to INTECH.
You had talked about they're being encouraged by increased interest in their mobile strategies global strategies.
I'm just maybe trying to drill down to that a little bit.
Are you starting to see actual pickup in RFP activity? Has it gotten to that level? Or is it more just more people inquiring about the strategies whether it's consultants and whatnot? So it's still kind of I'll call it the pre-RFP stage so to speak? We're seeing a pickup particularly outside of the United States in both -- I don't have the specific formal RFP numbers in front of me and a lot of that business doesn't always go to formal RFP state.
But it's safe to say that particularly outside the United States we're seeing a lot more serious interest and activity in the zones we talked about in those INTECH products.
I think that's probably as fair an answer as I can give you.
Our next question will come from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on as you think about incremental growth for the business.
Sort of curious if I look at your slide that gives out the gross sales by quarter what's remarkable is that there's been so flat or down in all your major buckets and the marketing spend is sort of flat.
Can you talk a little bit about strategy to grow the business from here and the impact on margins? I think Bruce really addressed the marketing point and it's really in the context that our whole leadership team has adopted I think very effectively the view that we should be extremely efficient with our spend but we need to continue to invest where appropriate to generate the right business results.
So we're not sacrificing our strategic or practical agenda for cost control but we're trying to be as efficient as possible while continuing to support our goals.
I think that's the first thing.
The second thing is -- the most important element we can deliver right now for flows is not advertising.
It's better investment results in some of the key large pools.
We've obviously made some changes to support that effort.
I said earlier in the call I'm more confident in the -- having the right people in the right seats especially including Enrique joining in September.
I think we've strengthened the team substantially and I'm excited about that.
That hasn't come through yet in the results and it's going to take some time.
But that's the most important element of addressing our flow situation.
And no we don't have on the books a significant new level of marketing and ad spend.
We don't have that planned at the moment.
Bill just one final point on this.
We're happy I think this quarter with the 160-basis-point expansion in the margin.
And as I mentioned before I'm very pleased with the seriousness with which the management team takes cost containment.
But all that being said the biggest factor weighing on our margins today is performance fees as Dick has referenced.
And my expectation is that as investment performance improves those margins will improve as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The follow-up question is maybe for Bruce.
Any in particular strategic shift given the new office new position and going back and thinking about opportunities for growth expansion et cetera and capital deployment? Let me take the first piece of that.
No there will be no strategic change based on promotions internally.
I mean these teams have been working effectively together for the last few years.
And I look forward to continuing in that capacity.
I'll kick it to Dick for the other strategic...
I think we are happy with our basic strategy of intelligent diversification.
The first plank of that was push the fixed income business forward and we think that's going well.
The second plank of that was drive our international business forward and I think that's in progress and I'm optimistic about how that will continue to develop.
The third plank of that was help strengthen our U.S.
institutional business beyond the terrific business that INTECH has.
And we've acknowledged at every point that we've mentioned this that that is a slow process and we've also acknowledged at every turn that that started essentially later than the first 2.
So for that reason I think it's too early to give a call on that.
But it's quite clear that our fixed income business significant part of its success is institutional.
And INTECH our optimism there also includes some better performance in institutional.
So I think the strategy is working from that perspective.
And then we talked about diversification of the product line beyond that with our liquid alts effort that we started at the beginning of this year.
It's brand new and it's too early to evaluate but we remain very excited about that direction.
And lastly I think I've mentioned on calls that we continue to look at opportunities to strengthen ourselves in income-generating investment products and in a couple of other areas.
And we'll continue to look at that and Bruce will provide a lot of leadership into that effort and those challenges.
So I think we're on the right track strategically.
I don't think we'll see any major shift.
We'll continue to push forward with ideas that we've laid out.
And we're optimistic we'll see improving investment performance that will drive performance fees better and then eventually investment flows better.
But these things are going to take some time.
Our next question will come from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just another question on the flows.
To the extent the -- that when there's PM turnover there's outflows.
When you've seen that in the past has that taken a couple of quarters to work its way out? Would you expect that there'd be some follow-through to 3Q? Yes.
I don't think it's a 1-quarter event.
I do think it follows through to later quarters.
I don't know exactly how many and I don't have enough of sort of a data set to give you a statistical or math-oriented answer but my judgment would be that these things continue for a number of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another flow question which is sometimes in Q2 I think there is heightened flows both in and out of variable annuities.
And I'm just wondering if you saw any shift in VA in the quarter.
I don't have that data right in front of me.
And candidly I haven't focused on a big shift there.
But I don't have that data right in front of me so I can't give you a high-quality answer.
Sorry Cynthia.
Our next question will come from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can we get Dick maybe from you some color on how things progressed in equities for you guys in -- throughout the quarter particularly after the PM changes? And then can you give us a little more color on how things have been tracking in July? Sure.
The new PMs have been on their jobs only a very short time.
And with respect to Doug Rao coming in from outside of the firm on the 40 and Marc Pinto taking over the 20 from Ron Sachs the early part of those periods are I wouldn't say dominated but certainly significantly affected by some portfolio restructuring that one has to do.
So the period is too unusual and too short to have any meaningful assessment of any kind of performance.
But I think those folks Marc Pinto and Doug Rao are going to do a terrific job on those funds.
And it's just too early to point to data and say "Here it is." Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the projection of flows quarter-to-date versus maybe the trends that you saw on a monthly basis throughout the second quarter any noticeable change in trends quarter-to-date? Marc I don't have that information in front of me.
And I don't -- I can't think of any noticeable change in trends because of those actions.
And ladies and gentlemen it appears we have time for one more question and that question will come from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to have certain -- back to Marc's question and going a little deeper on trading and venture.
How large are these funds today if you add back -- if you include the separate accounts AUM to the mutual fund AUM? What I'm trying to get is I'm just trying to read into what or how flows have trended in these 2 funds since the PM departures in mid-May? In general as you know I think we try hard to stay away from focusing on individual funds in this call.
So I can't give you the individual fund flow data.
I think the assets add up to about $8 billion and there hasn't been a meaningful shift in that AUM yet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And we all have assumed fund data so we see kind of monthly and sometimes weekly.
But how -- was there any meaningful changes outside of the mutual fund channel for those 2 funds and what flows in the separate accounts channel? I can't think of anything significant to call your attention to.
The vast majority of those assets are in those funds.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I just have a quick question for Rich on the margin.
Nice improvement in the quarter but it looks like long-term incentive comp given a normal quarter probably goes up a little bit.
In marketing we're still low so then maybe some upside there.
So if can you give us any kind of granularity around the margin trends especially related to long-term incentive comp and marketing.
That'd be quite helpful.
Well I'm not sure I can give you any more granularity than is already there.
I mean I think in our deck we have a table that speaks to LTI that gives you the grant dates and vesting schedules.
And I think the math of that would compute to something like $13 million a quarter.
Now there's some portion of that LTI that is in mutual fund awards in which will be subject to market movements.
But I think as a general guide that kind of guides you toward the LTI awards that you could expect the LTI cost.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for attending.