Good morning.
My name is Mar and I'm your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus's report filed with the SEC which are now available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Let me turn first to our quarterly results which will be found on Page 3 of our regular presentation.
In the third quarter of 2014 we earned $0.22 versus $0.19 in the prior quarter.
We had $2.1 billion of net outflows compared to $3.3 billion in the prior quarter obviously reflecting some mixed investment performance.
It's important to note that these flows don't include anything which may result from our addition of Mr.
Bill Gross.
His first day was September 29.
Our margins on the quarter were almost flat and reflecting a continuous commitment to financial discipline.
As you know we're very committed to our financial strength.
We'll talk about that more in a minute but during the quarter we repaid $60 million of debt.
On a trailing 12-month basis we continue to generate good free cash flow $222 million over the preceding 12 months.
We paid $15 million in dividends in this quarter and we repurchased $25 million of stock.
But of course the real story of the quarter and what I want to get even more than just the results is about our future.
During the quarter we took 2 significant steps forward.
First and foremost in the press release heard around the world we added Mr.
Bill Gross to the Janus Capital team.
He's widely understood to be the best fixed income investor out there over the past 4 decades or so and it is a tremendous honor and very exciting for us to have him on our team.
The second step more recently we announced the acquisition of VelocityShares who was the sponsor of ETPs predominantly ETNs exchange-traded notes and also in a smaller way ETFs.
This was an idea that was motivated by a desire to serve clients focused on primarily the ETF vehicle and it was a good idea I think made much better in combination with the addition of Bill Gross.
So we're particularly excited about that.
And we clearly conceived of it and we're pursuing it prior to -- now that Bill is joining us but that's a happy confluence of events for us.
Let me try and explain these events to you in the context of our strategy which we've talked about a number of times before.
Recall that our strategy rose from the notion that all of our owners all of our stakeholders deserve profit growth with reasonable risk.
They deserve a stable business model and in fact our clients and our employees demand it.
The truth of the large cap equity mutual fund business is that the beta is volatile.
The alpha on top of that beta is volatile.
In our particular case we have performance fees having volatility on top of that and historically we had a pretty leveraged balance sheet.
So we developed a strategy to focus on 4 key areas.
We said "Look we're going to focus on investment performance first and foremost.
We're going to focus on clients and client service second.
We're going to be committed to financial strength in the form of a strong balance sheet generating free cash flow and being effective in controlling expenses.
And lastly looking for a change at the margin we're going to focus on intelligent diversification." And we talked a lot about this strategy and steps we've taken in each of these 4 key areas on recent calls and I hope this isn't too redundant for you.
But let me focus today on that fourth step that intelligent diversification.
It's fair to ask what makes diversification intelligent? How are you targeting your diversification? We're looking for ideas that build into adjacent spaces in effect that leverage existing strengths as a first principle.
As a second principle we're looking for ideas that develop more and stronger client relationships.
That means adding new client relationships or indeed broadening existing client relationships.
Third and very importantly we're looking for ideas that lie at the intersection of what are clients will need in the future and what we can manage what we can deliver with differentiated excellence.
And those are the 3 principles which define and focus our efforts at intelligent diversification.
So if you'll allow me let me think about our current developments and some recent steps in this context.
The first principle was adjacent leveraging existing excellence.
A good example of this was our early commitment at least early in my leadership as CEO to developing our fixed income business.
This was an effort to leverage our company focus on bottom-up company research that has historically been a deep part of our equity roots and build into the fixed income space.
More recently with the addition of Bill Gross we're building on that growing strength in fixed income and the adjacent space is really the global macro approach that Bill Gross so famously brings to the table.
The second principle I mentioned was adding client relationships.
Certainly you can think about our commitment to international distribution over the last 4 or 5 years as reflective of that principle.
Most recently I think our addition of VelocityShares adds reach for us to clients and advisers who are very focused on ETFs.
Of course we're also optimistic that Bill Gross's addition will add plenty of strengths and additional clients for us and pretty much that's probably a common principle among lots of other things as well.
Our efforts with Myron Scholes and Ash to develop our asset allocation will hopefully do that same thing.
The last thing is we want to focus on the intersection of future client need and what we can manage what we can deliver with differentiated excellence.
And again this is a pretty broad principle you find underlying a lot of what we have done.
But in particular think about the addition of Myron Scholes and Ash Alankar in asset allocation think about Bill Gross in managing unconstrained bonds these are areas that lie at the intersection of future client need and what we can deliver with excellence.
And so I hope these comments help you understand the meaning that we take behind the words intelligent diversification and how this principle actually informs and guides our strategic development.
With that please let me turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Good morning again everyone.
So I'll begin on Page 5 of our presentation with a quick review of our operating results for the quarter.
Despite a weak finish to the quarter for the equity markets overall our third quarter average AUM improved to $176.5 billion from $174.4 billion in end of the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in average asset led to an increase in total revenue by 2.5% quarter-over-quarter to $237 million.
Operating income was $71.6 million which was up in line with the change in revenue over the second quarter.
Compared to the prior year operating income improved a little over 21%.
Our third quarter operating margin was 30.2% and that was roughly flat to the prior quarter.
Earnings per share was $0.22 for the third quarter which compares to $0.19 in the second quarter and $0.17 a year ago.
The increase in earnings per share over the prior quarter was primarily due to the aforementioned improvement in operating income lower effective tax rate which we had expected and lower interest expense as we retired $60 million of debt which matured in July.
Turning now to Slide 6 to discuss our investment performance as of September 30.
We saw mixed results in the complex-wide and fundamental equity performance statistics when compared to last quarter's presentation.
The 1-year metrics declined slightly while the 3- and 5-year metrics improved.
This quarter marks the first quarter end since the fourth quarter of 2009 that at least 50% of our complex-wide mutual fund assets are in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis.
Fixed income performance remained very strong nearly unchanged from the prior quarter.
Performance in our mathematical equity strategies declined slightly compared to the second quarter.
Similar to a prior quarter commentary the magnitude of underperformance in the majority of strategies that are not meeting their benchmarks in mathematical and INTECH remains moderate.
Now let's move on to our flows presentation on Page 7.
The main story here is the quarter-over-quarter improvement in our net flows across 3 main disciplines.
Third quarter net outflows were $2.1 billion translating into a 36% improvement compared to the $3.3 billion that we saw out in the second quarter.
This improvement resulted really from better growth sales more than offsetting a slight increase in gross redemption.
So it's really a sales story.
Fundamental equity flows which is on the upper right-hand side of this chart combines both our Janus equity and Perkins value franchises and we had a third quarter net outflow of $2.1 billion in fundamental equity which compared favorably to the second quarter outflows.
Gross sales improved in equities by $2 billion primarily in several Janus equity strategies.
A large contributor to that was retail sales in Japan which were aided by our strong partnership with Dai-ichi and the increase in redemptions that you saw there was a result of institutional redemptions.
Those institutional redemptions totaled approximately $800 million across a few different strategies.
Moving down the page next to our mathematical flows.
We saw a $300 million improvement in net outflows quarter-over-quarter again driven primarily by the increasing gross sales.
In fixed income net flows remained flat compared to the prior quarter at $300 million positive.
Our organic growth rate continues to be higher than the industry which means that we've been gaining market share in fixed income consistently.
We fielded a lot of questions about the impact of the Bill Gross hire on the fixed income flows.
I'd just like to remind everyone that there's only 3 days post the announcement that are reflected in this quarter flow numbers.
Bill didn't start as portfolio manager until October 6 in the fourth quarter.
It is not our policy to forecast or provide interim flow numbers.
So unfortunately you'll just have to wait until next month's Simfund data release to see what's happening now in the fixed income fund.
We'll try to give some more color around the longer-term client demand for fixed income that we're seeing in institutional and international channels in some future calls.
Obviously it's a little bit premature for us to call it right now.
The dramatic range of external forecasts that have come out kind of underline how difficult it is to pinpoint the future.
I think it's safe to say though that there's increased visibility now to our excellent fixed income track record and that should influence flows in a positive manner.
All right.
Let's move now to Slide 8 revenue and performance fees.
Revenue increased 2.5% primarily due to management fees and improvement in mutual fund performance fees.
Performance fees improved to a negative $14.4 million.
That's performance fees on the mutual funds in the quarter.
That's compared to $17.9 million negative last quarter and $22.3 million negative a year ago.
Private account performance fees for the quarter were $0.4 million.
Weighted average management fee for the quarter was 47.9 basis points which compares to 48.4 basis points in the second quarter.
On Slide 9 we have our operating expense breakdown.
Operating expenses increased $4.9 million or roughly 3% compared to last quarter.
The primary drivers are compensation expense and some of our discretionary items.
Increasing compensation this quarter was mainly a result of higher commissions which of course is related to that increase in sales volumes we commented on in the flows page 39% increase in firm-wide gross sales.
In addition when we see an increase in overall firm-wide profitability our variable compensation pools move with that.
G&amp;A was up about $1 million the majority of that which is nonrecurring deal-related expenses.
Now let's look at our long-term incentive expenses.
LTI declined approximately $1 million compared to the second quarter due to the mark-to-market impact on our mutual fund awards.
Our total third quarter compensation-to-revenue ratio or total comp-to-revenue ratio which does include that LTI line was 39.6%.
As I've stated before this metric includes some noncash items and we expect that to vary quarterly.
Before I move on to the balance sheet page I just want to take a short moment and give some comments around operating expenses looking forward into the fourth quarter and also into 2015 to help you from a modeling standpoint.
First with respect to the compensation line.
This line has 3 big drivers: base salaries commissions and our variable cash compensation.
The impact on our ratios is driven by the combined effect of all 3 of those items.
So anytime we're adding any new investment capabilities the headcount and the base salaries will go up usually in advance of the revenue.
Also during a period of high sales rates we see commissions expense surge relative to revenue.
So those 2 pieces we're looking at potentially driving up the comp-to-revenue ratios in 2015.
Depending on what outlook you have for sales for Janus you can build your own expectations.
Variable cash comp of course moves with the operating profit.
Next the LTI line.
So LTI in the fourth quarter based on what we know today is expected to be $14 million to $15 million and that assumes a flat market.
Looking forward into 2015 it's quite important to remember that year-to-date we have experienced a benefit that is a negative LTI expense of approximately $10 million as a result of lower value on our Perkins SPIs.
This benefit is not expected to repeat in 2015.
So if you combine that effect with the compensation line drivers I just discussed I think it's fair to say we would expect to see higher total comp-to-revenue ratios in 2015.
How much higher they are really depends on the pace of investments and sales and other big unknowns at this point.
Looking at discretionary expenses which included marketing and G&amp;A we are expecting to see some increase spend in the fourth quarter as we have been investing in the business around some of the announcements that have recently been made.
In the fourth quarter I expect to see the total of these 2 items increase by approximately 15% based on current plans.
Looking forward to 2015 it's a reasonable assumption that discretionary expenses will increase slightly.
I'll update that outlook in the next call once we're through our annual planning cycle.
Now moving on to Slide 10 and a look at our balance sheet.
Total cash and cash equivalents remained almost flat decreasing only $3 million.
This quarter $60 million of our convertible senior notes matured and were retired with cash on hand.
We also spent $25 million on share buybacks in the quarter which was roughly the same as the prior quarter.
Additionally we returned approximately $15 million to shareholders by way of our quarterly dividend.
You can see our seed book increased by approximately $35 million in the third quarter.
Very late in the quarter we seeded $48 million into the global unconstrained bond U.S.
mutual funds as well as a similar amount in the same strategy in our government-based non-U.S.
trust.
This increase in capital was offset by reductions in outstanding seed from several strategies which occurred earlier in the quarter.
We don't generally disclose individual strategy seed amounts as the book is actively managed.
So a snapshot view isn't going to be very helpful for modeling purposes.
It probably won't be all that fruitful for you to ask during Q&amp;A for additional detail on our seed book.
So now we have come to the point in the presentation where we devote a few slides to topics of shareholder interest.
I've been preparing to discuss in some great detail how our marginal corporate tax rates can be estimated.
The IR team has somewhat delicately informed me that there are perhaps some other topics that investors have a little bit more interest in this quarter.
So stay tuned for the riveting tax discussion in a future quarter and I will turn the mic over to Dick to talk about some of our recent additions.
Thank you Jennifer and yes I think we do have some news that take precedence over the future tax discussion.
We've made some serious world-class additions to our investment talent over the last year and we outlined that in the first page of this special topic Page 12 in our presentation.
Obviously as we've mentioned Bill Gross joined in September.
He's an icon.
He's one of the most recognizable names in the fixed income industry and widely respected as the best income manager over the last 4 decades.
He's managing our global unconstrained bond strategies and in this sense he's managing a product which is just perfect for a unique breadth of experience.
And it also offers a differentiated investment strategy compared to our existing strategies offered by our excellent team of Gibson Smith and others who have developed such a fine track record over recent years.
So we're really pleased how that one is developing.
In addition a little further back in time we added Myron Scholes of course a Nobel laureate and his colleague Ashwin Alankar and the 2 of them are working on modernizing and developing a leading approach a market-leading approach to asset allocation.
And we're excited about their work and hope that in the coming year we'll start to be able to share some more specifics with you around their cutting-edge developments.
A little further back from that if you look back we added Enrique Chang in September of 2013 as a Chief Investment Officer of equities and asset allocation.
And he's really been hard work for the last year strengthening our equity team and of course he played a huge role in attracting Myron and Ash.
There are lots of other folks who we've been lucky enough to have joined us here on the team.
But I think this prominent list of 4 names should make it clear to you that there's something exciting going on here at Janus.
These hires demonstrate our commitment to attracting the absolute best talents in the market to serve the needs of our clients.
If we flip over to Page 13 let me take a little deeper dive into what Bill Gross's addition means for us.
We think of it as 4 areas of near-term opportunity.
Bill's decision to join Janus is something much bigger than just Janus.
It puts a huge percentage of the fixed income landscape into potential transition.
Every fixed income firm in our industry is obviously focused on its potential.
Our Janus core plus our flexible bond approach led by Gibson Smith is very well positioned to gather additional assets from this set of potential transitions.
As we think about how that might happen it's important to note that not everybody is going to make a decision on the first day.
So it's important to note that I think the opportunities created in the fixed income market for us and for others is probably a 1-year plus kind of transitional period rather than anything that is immediate.
The second area that I would call your attention to is specifically for Bill Gross and his new product from a Janus unconstrained bond strategy.
Obviously having such a terrific leader and portfolio manager as Bill Gross leading that product we expect that will attract considerable attention over time.
The third area that I would call attention to is our brand.
There's a positive halo effect primarily for our fixed income team but also for the whole firm also including our equity and our asset allocation efforts.
I think the fact that Bill Gross chose to come here when he obviously could have chosen to do so many other things or join any number of other firms speaks highly to the quality of the work and the team that we have here.
It's a very high compliment.
I think clients and external folks understand that and it serves to enhance our whole brand and the opportunity set for our whole firm.
Lastly we have a special opportunity.
As we mentioned we had previously conceived of the idea that acquiring VelocityShares could give us access primarily to growing ETF market or rules-based ETF market and we could share some of our intellectual capital and investment excellence in that format and expand our reach to clients who were very focused on ETFs.
With Bill's arrival that acquisition obviously becomes a much smarter idea for us and a much bigger opportunity set.
So we're looking forward to taking advantage of that.
So overall it's a uniformly positive story.
The addition of Bill Gross is significantly strengthening our company and diversifying our brand and that's good.
Now turning to Page 14 let me turn it back over to our CFO Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Well as Dick mentioned fast on the heels of the hiring of Bill Gross we were once again in the news with this exciting announcement about VelocityShares.
This is the first new company acquisition that Janus has made in many years.
So VelocityShares on Page 14.
As noted in the press release we expect to close on the purchase here in the fourth quarter.
We're buying 100% of the stock of the parent company VS Holdings for an upfront consideration of $30 million.
There will also be a scaled earn-out which is spread over 4 years which will pay out if the impressive growth in VelocityShares revenue continues.
The total earn-out potential is capped at $36 million.
The senior management of VelocityShares are joining Janus as is the whole team of VelocityShares.
The senior management are also selling shareholders and they will continue to participate directly in future growth through that earn-out.
So with you as typical Janus fund shareholder you may not have heard of VelocityShares.
But in the world of tactical volatility trading they are quite well known and recognized for their innovation.
The company built their company brand and their revenue initially around exchange-traded notes or ETNs in the volatility space.
These are products designed for sophisticated institutional investors with very short holding periods.
They have expanded their ETN product set and more recently launched a second business line in the exchange-traded fund ETF space which is oriented towards U.S.
long-term investors like Janus's clients.
Their ETFs are not passive ETFs nor they strictly active rather they are built around rules-based index construction which the VelocityShares team has designed to deliver some desired outcomes in client portfolios.
So that's kind of a summary of their current business.
And the deal rationale which I think Dick has articulated already quite well really has 2 parts.
One is we are able to apply our distribution strength to their long-term investment-oriented products that is their ETF offerings and we're getting a great proven design and development capability in their team.
We are expecting that team to apply their skills their creativity and their approach across the breadth of all of our investment disabilities.
We are very excited to have VelocityShares onboard.
So before I turn it over to the operator to take some Q&amp;A I just wanted to take a moment to express some appreciation for some of the people working behind the scenes here in particular our Investor Relations team which is only 3 people normally completely slammed during an average earnings season.
Obviously this has been unprecedented level of news and they also service our internal public relations team.
So I just wanted to thank John Jim and Tammy for all your hard work that's been going on over the last several weeks.
With that I will turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to our first caller Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually Andrew [indiscernible] calling in for Michael.
So I assume a number of investors that are going to go fund shareholders may be a bit reluctant to transfer assets into the global unconstrained bond strategy just given the fund's lack of track record and scale.
So I'm just wondering if there's any color on how you're dealing with that potential issue and how you're thinking about the timeline for that process.
Thanks for the question this is Dick Weil.
I think that Bill Gross is unique in our industry for having a multi-decade proven excellent track record across a huge number of different kinds of strategies.
And so while there are -- there will be some potential investors potential clients who are concerned about waiting and seeing his track record I think a great many more folks recognize that he has proven himself over such an extended period of time across such a breadth of environments and strategies that he will get attention much more quickly than any other investor might in a similar situation.
So we'll do our best to communicate what he's up to and why people should have confidence in it and we would expect he'll get that usual range of reactions.
But I think a great many people are already telling us that they're excited and interested in what he has to offer and we expect that to continue.
Great.
And then how are you thinking about potentially leveraging the hired Mr.
Gross to ramp up the build-out of your initiatives to further penetrate the non-U.S.
and institutional channels? And from an infrastructure standpoint do you have the resources assuming you'd start to see some chunky ones? Well I think Bill's presence combined with some excellence that was already here is going to give us the chance the opportunity to succeed in a bigger scale than we have been able to in the past certainly.
As that develops I think it's quite possible quite likely that we'll have to make some modest developments in various places in the firm to strengthen some of the pipes and capabilities around the house.
I don't think it'll be extraordinarily significant but we are committed to delivering excellence in this format and supporting this initiative with the necessary resources.
So to use a little slang we're not going cheap Charlie it.
We're going to go ahead and invest if necessary to support it.
I think you can put this in the context of what we've been telling you about our commitment to expense discipline for years now which is I think we've been consistent in saying that we believe in a strong level of expense discipline as a philosophy but that has to be balanced with making the necessary investment to maximize your opportunity set.
And clearly in this case some modest investment to support the opportunity set I think is likely inappropriate.
We'll move now to Mike Carrier at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dick just on -- when you look at the recent hires that you made and not just Bill Gross but just over the past couple of quarters you guys just did the acquisition.
Do you feel like from the types of products or the types of strategies you want on the platform most of that is there an out on your executioning getting that stuff even to the distribution channels and accelerating the sales over the next couple of quarters? Just want to get a sense of -- are there still gaps out there that you're still thinking that you'd want to build over time? Or is a lot of that stuff in place now? Thanks for the question.
I guess the answer depends on your time frame.
I think in the near term we certainly got more than enough in the way of new opportunities on the plate and focusing on winning in those opportunities.
On doing an excellent job in those opportunities will be much more significant than adding additional new ideas and opportunities.
Over time I think we'll continue to express the strategy and philosophy that we talked about earlier in this call.
But for the near term certainly I think our plate's pretty full with what we've already undertaken.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jennifer just on some of the guidance that you gave looking out to 2015.
I know there's a lot of moving pieces.
But when you think about the operating margin when you look at both the non-comp and some of the things that are moving on the comp side is there still the ability to be around that 30%? Or obviously you're just depending on the environment backdrop meaning in terms of the market backdrop that could fluctuate but just in terms of what you're -- I don't know when you pool all that together particularly on the compensation side what you're thinking over the next maybe 1 to 2 years.
Sure.
Thanks Mike.
We -- as I talk a lot about compensation obviously that's the biggest piece of our expense base both on the cash compensation and the LTI.
So if we're seeing that move up in 2015 which with success it will move up then we're going to have to expect that all other things being equal we have a lower margin.
I think we ran a lot of scenarios here internally.
I think under a strong market scenario we could be close to those numbers you threw out the 30% but it have to be a strong market scenario.
And for our next question we move to Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about building the business around Mr.
Gross.
I mean certainly what we've read in the press is he's going to be in Newport in his office with a small staff and I think one of -- some investors' concerns maybe that hey he's got this phenomenal track record but what are you actually building around him.
So if 5 years 10 years down the road it's time for him to step away what's left? So how are you thinking about building a franchise around him that will outlast his contribution? Well thanks for that question.
Obviously that's something that will take some time to build out.
We're clearly aware that while we expect Mr.
Gross to have a successful and happy and lengthy career here at Janus none of us goes on forever.
And we'll be building around with additional talent around him to support that and ultimately hopefully a long long time from now to deal with transition issues.
But today the electric feeling we have is much more around his arrival and not so much around planning for his eventual transition.
So I think the question is fair.
I think it's smart.
I think the time frame is we have some time and of course we have the plans and intention to build out that small team in a way that would allow us to make an eventual succession at the appropriate time.
But first and foremost there's a ton of excitement and electricity here and amongst our clients around what we can do with leading the charge.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And maybe following up to some of Jennifer's comments.
Obviously you talked about some trend expectations around compensation and LTI heading into next year potentially.
So if -- but again related to Mr.
Gross I think it's come up a bunch of I know conversations with investors that if his products if his product that he's running starts gathering a lot of assets is that -- is there anything about what you worked out with him that's going to change kind of the relationship of how we should think about the comps-to-revenue ratio? Is it -- is he going to be kind of -- have an outside economic relative to the outsized -- excuse me economics relative to maybe some of the existing portfolio management teams? I think I understand what you're getting at and the answer is no.
We have brought him on under our regular portfolio management compensation structure.
So there's nothing that you should put in some giant compensation hit or something like that.
But the scenario that you laid out where there's a huge gathering of assets results in a big commissions expense.
So you'll see the timing of commissions expense happen with sales.
We obviously anticipate that growth.
We hope it will happen.
We don't know how big it will be.
But as a result of that forecast I wouldn't expect to see total comp to revenue where you've seen it this year which is around 39% 40%.
It's probably going to be more in the mid-40s.
We move now to Ken Worthington at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First to take a step back on Bill Gross can you just talk about really what the long-term vision is? He's been hired as a PM but is Bill Gross at Janus to manage assets in a -- in one or a couple of funds? Or is he really at Janus to spearhead the building out of the franchise? Thanks Ken.
I'm not sure I understand precisely the line between those two cases that you suggest.
At the moment Bill is managing a domestic mutual fund.
He's managing an offshore Dublin-based mutual fund which is sold around the world.
He is available to manage separate accounts.
He's focused on unconstrained bond strategy and I think the opportunity set for Bill Gross in that space is quite significant and potentially worthy of the name franchise.
I also know that we're thinking hard about how to put Bill's reputation and excellence together with the VelocityShares folks and in the ETF space and that'll take some time.
ETFs are not immediately launch-able.
There's filing period and development period and other things.
So I wouldn't expect that to roll out immediately.
But over time clearly we're committed to exploring and delivering something smart in that space.
Bill is also going to work with Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar in trying to strengthen their efforts in asset allocation and participate on their asset allocation committee and those are the things that we have identified and committed to in the first 2 weeks.
As time rolls on we'll see what else makes sense.
But it's worth noting that unconstrained bond has been a rapidly growing area of interest for institutional clients around the world.
And if it should come to pass that duration is no longer your friend and rates start heading up I would only expect that level of interest to increase over time.
And so I think it's fair to say that given what we've identified in the first couple of weeks there's a lot of opportunity set there and then we certainly won't limit ourselves over time to adjust that.
But it's fair to say in no world are we trying to recreate some huge new PIMCO-like franchise and no world are we building a separate thing out there.
This is a separate investment team from the existing fixed income team but a lot of common resources in the infrastructure side.
And he's -- Bill is on the team as a partner probably as our most important partner but that's the structure and that's how it's going to continue.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a little more flavor on gross sales.
You obviously ticked up smartly slightly during the quarter.
You mentioned Japan.
Are there other distribution channels that are helping to drive the improved flows? I think we've seen some success for you in the large retirement plan business.
But what other areas seem to be helping outside of the Japan which you had mentioned? Well first before I take that question on outside of Japan let me just underline Japan.
Our relationship with Dai-ichi Life has been just a terrific success.
You knew the basic outlines in this relationship when we signed the papers with them but you never really can tell how the people will interact and how the quality of their relationship will evolve over time beyond the initial contract.
And this has just been a great success.
They've been terrific partners and owners and supporters.
We managed $2 billion for Dai-ichi Life out of their general account assets.
In addition their affiliate DIAM raised an additional almost $900 million in the preceding quarter bringing their total assets to approximately $2 billion of additional.
They did it across a range of equity and fixed income strategies.
And so that combination of $4 billion so far that's growing and very strong relationship is something that deserves underline.
In terms of flows by channel beyond that I don't know.
I'm going to pass the ball here a little bit to Jennifer to see if she has any color to add.
I don't have any numbers at my fingertip to share with you.
We do have a lot of the growth coming -- growth in sales coming from our U.S.
intermediary distribution.
You had asked specifically about insurance large plans and I don't have any of that information to disclose right now.
But certainly our intermediary U.S.
distribution channel is contributing a lot across-the-board in all the strategies.
For our next question we move to Dan Fannon at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess to getting a little bit more qualitative commentary from -- around the Gross hire and what you're hearing from your intermediaries and distribution folks and whether that's -- to your comment earlier about the halo effect with some of the other products.
But if you could talk about how the fixed income was being sold previously potentially with the existing products and maybe how that can evolve as a result of the hire and kind of what you're hearing thus far in the first few weeks from those distributors.
Sure thanks.
Our existing fixed income franchise was a little north of $30 billion in assets under management and that was a combination U.S.
retail U.S.
institutional and some retail and institutional offshore including a significant piece in Tokyo as we previously mentioned.
So it's been present already in all the major channels effectively.
The opportunity set for that preexisting team just radically increased with the potential for assets in motion resulting from Bill's departure from PIMCO.
And so I think those products are well positioned with good track records already in the major channels.
And so the first thing to mention is that's alive and significant opportunity set that we have to go out and do our best to serve.
Second with respect to Bill his reputation is obviously so significant that everybody knows when he came to Janus.
There's a tremendous amount of interest in understanding what he's doing potentially putting money with us.
And so we've had very exciting active conversations with our clients domestically and outside of the U.S.
in retail and institutional.
And that opportunity set is also I think quite significant for us on a go-forward basis and it falls to us to do a really good job and capture as much of that and service as much of that as we can.
So everybody's taking our call.
Everybody's calling us.
It's an extremely busy period.
It includes institutional and retail it includes domestic and international.
It's just -- it's exciting for us but it remains -- this is the beginning not the victory lap.
It remains for us to take advantage of those opportunities and grow our business in a way that serves those clients well and that's where we are in the cycle.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess to start is he see more in the fundraising mode? Or is he actually -- is it more focused on investing? Or is it about getting to a certain size and getting his name out there to get certain amount of assets in and then really just back to portfolio management? Well my handshake with Bill is that we need to make this fun and successful for him as well as for us and part of that is respecting that his first love is investing in markets.
And so he'll -- he has done already and will continue to do some significant client work which hopefully will help us gather assets.
But the first thing he needs to do is make sure he's doing a great job as an investor and we need to respect his time and resource commitment to that function.
So whatever gets dedicated on the client side after that is definitely second to investing.
And we're making every attempt to keep it simple and effective for him so that he enjoys it and that he does it for a long long time.
We move now to Tom Whitehead at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess jumping back to VelocityShares.
Can you comment on how you think it's going to complement the existing product suite? And as we look at this as a more mature Janus with a broad diversified product set and the existence of ETFs how do you combat cannibalism so to speak by ETFs of what you guys do currently? You know what? I think to the extent there's going to be cannibalism of some of what we do by ETF-based products that is going to happen whether or not we participate directly in the ETF business.
So if the question is are you worried about cannibalizing yourself? I don't ever worry too much about cannibalizing ourselves in the sense that if you are available to be cannibalized somebody else will do it if you don't do it.
So we're not fearful at that level.
We have in the adviser community which is our most prominent -- our most significant set of clients there a lot of advisers who are clearly very focused on using ETF's tools for their clients.
Previously we have been limited and almost unable to serve those folks in a way they wanted to be served with that kind of vehicle.
So if you can imagine one of our people going in and talking to a key adviser and key adviser says "Well I'm really interested in doing this part of my asset allocation using ETFs." Our folks would have to get relatively quiet in response because we didn't have anything like that to offer.
And I think there's a lot of industry data which shows that this has been a growing segment maybe primarily around passive which we're not going to serve but also around rules-based sort of quasi-active solutions in ETFs and -- that we are going to serve through this vehicle.
So this gives us a great way to strengthen and build relationship particularly with those advisers who really are focused on ETFs as an important vehicle as they execute their jobs for clients.
And so it's an extension of what's possible in our existing relationships and can even allow us to add some new relationships as well and that's why we're excited about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess as a follow-up.
This one is sort of for Jennifer.
But just on capital return.
Your buybacks have been a little bit elevated the last 2 quarters.
You've taken some steps to delever pay down some debt.
So how should we think about that going forward appreciating that you have a lot of investments currently going on with Bill and with other things that you're looking to build out? Well to put it simply I would not view the last 2 quarters as being an elevated level.
I think we talked about getting to the point where we could return capital to shareholders on a payout basis that was more in line with industry averages let's say kind of 70% to 80% cash flow over the course of a cycle.
And that's actually where we've been over the last couple quarters.
So I wouldn't characterize them as being an elevated level but maybe more as a new norm.
We move now to the Bill Katz at Citi.
Research Division</strong> So when you think about the dynamic between the margin update and volume how are you thinking about volume against that sub-30% margin as a possible offset from an earnings perspective? What's implicitly in your forecast at this point in time? So I'm not going to give you what's implicitly in our forecast in terms of volume.
I think you're trying to get at at what's in our flows numbers and really we run the gamut in our forecasting exercise.
So I'm sorry Bill.
I'm not able to kind of give you that.
Maybe what you -- what would be helpful is understanding that there are economies obviously in the global unconstrained bond space as we're building out infrastructure to support that.
So there's a big economies of scale there.
Our fixed income business outside of Bill Gross which also has a tremendous growth potential is kind of more mature in their cost structure and so you'll see better incremental margins there somewhere around 50% which I think we've talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just from a -- looking at the third quarter results where you had the pick up in the fundamental equity gross sales a little bit.
And just sort of triangulating that relative to some of the still heavy outflow you're seeing in the growth and the value fund and maybe that you had in your comments in terms of what's happening in Japan.
But where are you seeing the leverage for the business? And how you think about the growth and value platforms? Any signs of stabilization there? Well I think we try to say -- to use the word mixed in terms of some of the results.
We have some products that are truly doing outstanding work.
I think the Wall Street Journal recently recognized our contrarian fund as being the #1 actively managed fund in the universe that they were appearing at for their competitive purposes.
So the contrarian fund with Dan Kozlowski is doing a terrific job.
And we have other areas about our global life sciences some of our other sector funds technology that we have -- very strong in small and mid-cap growth.
We've got a lot of things that are working well.
We've also got some things that are working less well and some of our value products are doing quite well.
The small-cap value has done well recently.
But some of the other stuff has a been a little bit more challenged.
And so we thought the word mixed was a fair representation of that.
And what have we done to sort of strengthen and build that I mean I think you know.
I think the most important thing we've done is the addition of Enrique Chang.
He brings a proven approach to investment process and people leadership stability and discipline.
And I think over time that's going to deliver a lot of forward progress.
We have terrific talent already preexisting on the team.
We've added new investors to that over my years here who have also been really good.
So I don't have anything particularly insightful to say other than I think we're on the right path.
I believe very much in our team and I think these records will continue to get stronger in the years ahead.
We have time for only one more question which comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Both my topics here have been covered but just a short question here left.
Are there any restrictions or maybe a non-compete out there that could prevent the unconstrained bond fund from targeting certain investor groups? Essentially large institutional investors are -- is it kind of free right now.
No we're free to pursue business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And actually one follow-up.
How large is the unconstrained bond fund in the C cap product across border European channel? I -- you've just confused me.
Can you repeat your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the global unconstrained bond fund...
We have a Dublin-based international trust so we don't have a C cap product.
It's a -- you said.
But I don't have that specific number for you but there is a global constrained bond fund in that international trust.
I guess operator it falls to me to put a close on this call.
So let me say thank you everyone for joining us today.
Obviously we have some very exciting news.
We're hearing terrific interest from clients in every one of our channels and there's tremendous enthusiasm in the employee base here.
Compared to a month ago the electricity in the halls here at Janus has stepped up incredibly.
Everybody here I think recognizes that we have in our hands a very very special opportunity and we're all absolutely committed to making the most of it.
We have extraordinary people and we have a terrific supportive relationship with Dai-ichi Life we talked about.
We've been already committed to building out asset allocation with Myron and Ash which in the coming calendar year should be something we can detail more but we're very excited what that brings.
Bill Gross is clearly just a game changer for us.
VelocityShares is a huge positive and allows us to serve clients in a whole new way.
And I personally believe our firm's best days lie ahead and couldn't be more excited certainly have not been more excited in my tenure here.
It's just a great time for Janus.
So thank you all very much for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.