Good morning my name is Dana and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factor sections of the company's most recent Form 10-K and other more recent filings made with the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everyone to the first quarter 2015 earnings presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
As usual I'll start with a little overview of the quarter.
I'll hand off to our CFO Jennifer McPeek who will take you through the numbers in some more detail and we will take a moment to go through some special topics at the end and then we'll take questions.
Looking at the first quarter of 2015 let me start by reflecting a bit on the context that we've been talking about for several quarters.
In these quarterly calls we've spend a lot of time talking about our strategy; our focus on intelligent diversification; our desire to build out our fixed income business our non-U.S.
businesses our U.S.
institutional business; to pay down debt and strengthen our balance sheet; and to further develop our product line up with some uncorrelated returns and some asset allocation.
That story really focuses on evolution and I try to context that story for you with the headline that nothing is more important than taking care of our existing clients in our existing business.
Nothing is more important than delivering excellent risk adjusted returns and excellent client experience to our existing clients.
And in that context clearly our most important business is our Janus actively managed equity business with approximately $90 billion in the AUM at this point.
The real headline for this quarter is of course the second quarter in a row of overall positive flows.
Underneath that it's fundamentally driven by $2.2 billion in positive flows in our Janus equity business in the first quarter of 2015 which is the strongest quarter of inflows for this business in nearly seven years.
And that was primarily driven by the combination of significantly stronger investment performance and really good work on the client sales and client relationship side maximizing the benefit of that improved performance.
And so the story of this quarter is not so much about the Bill Gross and Myron Scholes that we've talked about in prior quarter although that all remains valid and very important to our future.
But the really good news of this quarter is a continued strengthening in our core Janus equity actively managed franchise.
It's also worth noting that our fixed income business added $800 million in positive net flows.
That was primarily driven by $700 million in positive flows in our fundamental strategies on the fixed income side.
I'd also like to call out in the quarter we had two funds win important awards for outstanding performance.
Our Janus Balanced Fund received Lipper Award for its excellent performance over a 10-year period.
And our Contrarian Fund received Lipper Award for its excellent performance again this peer group over a three-year period.
Finally as you all will have heard already by now we were able to increase our quarterly dividend to $0.09 up from $0.08 a share.
With that headline let me turn it over to Jennifer.
Thank you Dick and good morning again everyone.
I'll begin on Page 5 of our presentation with a quick review of the operating results for the quarter.
Average AUM was up 3.8%.
Total revenue was up 3.1%.
Recall that the first quarter had two fewer days than the fourth quarter.
Our operating income was down 6%.
The first quarter typically has higher expenses that are seasonal and you see that on a year-over-year basis our operating income is about 14%.
Earning per share for the quarter were $0.23 and that include $0.0150 of investment gains.
Turning now to Slide 6 which is our standard format for our investment performance.
A couple of highlights.
First with respect to our long-term performance on a five-year basis we had 50% or more of our assets in the top-two Morningstar quartiles for all of our sub-groupings.
In particular in fixed income we've had 82% in the top-two Morningstar quartiles which represent some extremely strong long-term performance.
However the short-term performance in fixed income jumped off the page as an outlier on the low side.
I'd like to highlight that this statistic is not representative of the very strong risk adjusted performance for these strategies.
As an example our largest strategy in fixed income which is core plus is actually in the first quartile in sharp ratio and information ratio which represent risk-adjusted performance in both the year-to-date three year five and ten year periods.
We also see 73% in our one year performance for fundamental equity.
This is an extremely strong number and it's very important to our overall business financials that Dick is going to talk a little bit more about that performance in the special topic section.
Mathematical equities have seen an improvement in the one and three year numbers to 40% and 69% respectively.
And in the overall complex-wide mutual fund statistic we continue to have very strong numbers of 51% of our funds getting a four or five star rating.
Recall that across the industry that's only 32%.
Next let's look at flows which are on Page 7 of your presentation.
First quarter total company net inflows were $1.1 billion which represents an annualized organic growth rate of 2.4%.
Our fundamental equity flows had first quarter inflows of $1.6 billion continuing to build on the improvement we have seen over the last few quarters.
32% in gross sales was the primary reason behind the increase.
A little later in the presentation as I mentioned we'll give some more detail there.
Looking at our mathematical flows there was a $700 million decline in net outflows quarter-over-quarter.
Although sales and redemptions are lumpy in this largely institutional business INTECH performance continues to be strong which increases our optimism about future flow trends.
Fixed income net flows remain positive in the first quarter.
We continue to increase market share in our fundamental business which is run by Gibson Smith.
The global unconstrained bond strategy contributed approximately $100 million of inflows during the quarter for a total fixed income annual organic growth rate of over 9%.
Flipping to Slide 8.
Total revenue increased 3% over the prior quarter mostly on higher management fees which were up in line with the increase in average assets.
Weighted average management fee for the current quarter was up slightly at 48.5 basis points.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $8.7 million for the quarter which was slightly better than the fourth quarter result.
The private account performance fees in the first quarter were $6.4 million.
Given that these private account performance fees can fluctuate meaningfully quarter-to-quarter we've decided to cover this in our special topic section in greater detail.
Finally I want to remind everyone that we are reporting VelocityShares revenue in the other revenue bucket.
This last quarter represents the first full quarter of revenue for VelocityShares since we acquired them and revenue from that business totaled approximately $3.6 million.
Since we've received a number of questions on how this business works we've included them in the special topic section as well.
Page 9 is our operating expenses breakdown.
Operating expenses increased $12 million or 7% compared to the prior quarter.
The primary drivers were employee compensation and LTI.
The increase in comp and benefits in LTI result in a comp-to-revenue ratio of 42.5% which is in line with our expectations and also within the range that we communicated on the prior call.
Looking a little closer at LTI for the full year our current estimate which we have in a footnote on this page is $75 million to $80 million which is a slight increase from the guidance we gave you last quarter.
The reason for the increase is twofold.
First the grant that we gave in February was slightly larger than we had estimated in our guidance from the January call.
And second positive market in the first quarter leads to some additional mark-to-market expense through this line.
As always our guidance assumes flat markets going forward and variance can come from realized up or down market.
Looking ahead at the full year comp-to-revenue ratio we have no change in our guidance there we're still saying 40% to 45% range.
Lastly before we move off of operating expenses discretionary expense was down 11%.
This decrease was driven primarily by lower G&amp;A which included deal-related expenses from the VelocityShares transaction which were booked in the fourth quarter.
Flipping to Slide 10 we look at our balance sheet and our capital management activities for the quarter.
As I discussed on previous calls our strengthening financial position is enabling us to return more capital to shareholders.
In that vein we have just announced a 12.5% increase in our regular quarterly dividend.
Share repurchases for this past quarter totaled approximately $23 million which is an increase over last year's first quarter which saw share repurchases of $11 million.
So now I'm going to turn it back over to Dick for our special topic section.
Thank you Jennifer.
Turning to Page 12 we have a breakout discussion of our Janus equity mutual fund performance inflows.
As we noted earlier in this presentation that's really the most important thing driving the results of this quarter.
And at $90 billion of AUM which is the highest level of AUM since 2Q 2011.
That business will have the biggest impact on our near-term results certainly as a firm.
So turning to Page 12 the upper left is the depiction of performance weighted by assets.
And as you can see as of the end of March 78% and 76% of mutual fund assets were in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one and a three-year basis respectively.
This improvement reflects better results across many of our largest strategies and we try and give you some perspective on that in the chart on the upper right of Page 12 where we show Morningstar percentile ranking based on total returns for each of our top 10 largest funds.
On a one-year basis eight out of these top 10 funds are top quartile compared to two a year ago.
Five of these eight are in the top decile.
On a three-year basis seven out of our top 10 funds are in the top quartile compared to only three year a ago; and five are on the top decile.
Looking out at the 10 year basis it remains very strong with eight of our top 10 funds in the top quartile.
Looking how that performance has been turned into flows we can turn to the chart on the bottom of Page 12.
With $2.2 billion in positive flows this is our best quarter in our Janus equity business in quite sometime.
This reflects excellence not only in the performance as noted above but it reflects the strength of our distribution team building client relationships and selling effectively where we have track records that are strong in places where clients have great interest.
With that let me turn it back over to Jennifer McPeek.
And I'm on Page 13 of the deck.
So when we announced our acquisition of VelocityShares the call following that announcement had a lot of other company news and perhaps not as much Q&amp;A around this very exciting transaction as we otherwise would have gotten.
So subsequently we've gotten a lot of questions from both the analysts' community and our shareholders around what this business is currently and how the revenue works from the business.
So we put together this slide that illustrates the current business and exchange-traded products which we purchased in our acquisition of VelocityShares.
In the first quarter we had $2.8 billion in exchange-traded product average asset and that contributed $3.6 million of revenue.
The revenue that we collect on the bulk of these assets which are the tactical assets shown in these dashed lines are collected net of issuer expenses in fees.
Those are exchange traded notes sold under the VelocityShares name.
You can see that we have three suits of exchange-traded notes: equity volatility energy and metal.
And these instruments have grown in usage and popularity over the last two quarters.
As the underlying indices for these notes become more volatile there is greater interest in trading them and thus the volumes go up and the revenues to Janus goes up.
So it's a nice diversifying dynamic for us albeit a small one and that the underlying factors that drive revenue in VelocityShares historical core business are not correlated with the factors that drive our core business revenue.
Going forward we have hope to see more revenue coming from products that are targeted at our core long-term investment clientele which include exchange-traded funds both active and rules-based.
And now on the final page of our presentation today we have a breakdown of our private account performance fees.
Spend a lot of time in prior calls talking about the calculation of our mutual fund performance fees.
And I think everybody who participates in these call has pretty good handle on those.
Recently we've seen some very positive trends in the separate account performance fees and these have caught some of our investors by surprise.
So this final slide attempts to give some cuts of the assets that generate those fees.
Hopefully you'll get a little bit better at predicting them but more likely you will come to the conclusion that these are just much more difficult forecasts than our mutual fund performance fees.
So first no surprise nearly all the performance fee accounts today are in INTECH strategies.
INTECH as you know has a predominantly institutional client-base.
So tracking INTECH performance is probably the best indicator at a high level than any other factor if you want to predict a separate account performance fees.
Current AUM subject to performance fee is $17.5 billion less than half of the total private account assets.
We've seen it grow generally as assets grow but the fee structures are very client-specific segment-specific and geography-specific.
The lower chart on this page confirms that we do expect seasonality all other things being equal.
The pie chart shows how the assets under performance fees divvy up by their timing of performance fee payment.
You see that 40% occurs in the fourth quarter 30% in the first quarter and that results in quite a of bit seasonality when we recognize these.
I'll also note that of these performance fees more than 40% are based on measurement period that are one year or shorter.
That makes current quarter performance particularly important in driving the magnitude of the performance fees.
And obviously it's going to make it more prone to surprises.
Lastly let me remind you that these separate account performance fees are not structured like our mutual fund performance fees.
Those can go negative and these are only on the positive.
With that I'll turn it over to Dick for some concluding remarks.
Thanks Jennifer.
In conclusion we're continuing to make progress.
We're working hard to make sure we're delivering excellent investment performance and excellent client experience across our businesses.
We are working hard to integrate and build out the strategic additions we made last year including global macro fixed income asset allocation exchange-traded products and in the future we'll provide more detailed updates on that progress as we move.
But the key store here is the gathering strength in our very important Janus fundamental equity business and I hope we've done a good job of translating that to you.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Maybe first question is if it would be possible to get a little bit more color on the kind of where you're seeing strong sales which channels you're seeing the strong sales from the fundamental equity and I guess fixed income businesses that predominantly the RIA channel kind of the Schwab platforms.
Any color you can provide on that and where you're seeing kind of the most strength? We're seeing strength across a range of channels.
We're seeing good momentum in our retail and intermediary business.
We're seeing some pretty good momentum in our non-U.S.
business in particular.
And perhaps even more importantly we're seeing that occur over a good range of strategies including our Global Life our Balanced our Flexible bond our Enterprise our Triton and Venture as examples of places where we're seeing some strengths.
So it's been broad.
I think you mention Schwab specifically.
Currently across Fidelity and Schwab we have 23 funds on their selector guidance list which is up from 19 a quarter ago.
So we're seeing strength across a range of channels but I think in particular our retail and intermediary and we're saying it across a range of strategies.
Jennifer may want to add something here.
Yes Rob I have some statistics that maybe helpful for you.
We have seen this quarter about two-thirds of our fundamental equities were coming from domestic channels about one-third from international.
I guess in fixed income much more concentrated this quarter than domestic channel.
In our retail business really across the firm the advisor channel saw the biggest sales and net flows.
And then maybe Jennifer my follow-up question.
Just kind of curious on capital management I guess for the past year or so the rate of share repurchase has certainly been stepped up and I guess running at a just call it an average of 1.5 million shares a quarter roughly.
But at the same time the share count is pretty much flat.
Actually it was up this quarter if I think of it versus the end of 2013.
So if you could talk a little bit about your general goals as it relates to share repurchases? Is it really just geared towards immunizing the share count on future share issuances maybe you have a long-term goal of actually trying to drive down the share count? And as profitability improves should we expect that the pace of share repurchase could accelerate? That was a compound question.
I'll try to address as many of those as I can.
We do think about share repurchases with long-term objectives in mind.
As a minimum threshold we're trying to offset dilution that comes from our choice of compensation vehicle because we want our shareholders be agnostic as to whether we choose to compensate people with stock or with cash.
So at a minimum level we are looking to offset dilution from compensation.
As you see some of the share count movement particularly in the fully diluted count over the last few quarters is moving up.
A big factor there is our outstanding convert which flows through.
We're not looking to try and offset that all in one big chunk but over time we do want to offset dilution from all of the different factors including a convert.
And so you'll see our long-term objectives are to slowly move the share count down as we're looking to return capital in excess of cash flow that's produced.
So you'll see that really play out in longer-term share count numbers but quarter-to-quarter it's definitely going to fluctuate.
And a big driver right now is what happens with our share price as that dilution from the convert plays through in a fully diluted number.
And we'll go next to Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
I think I've got two compound questions too.
First on marketing you've got a number of new products that you've launched in various regions.
As you look out over the next say 12 months or maybe pick your own time horizon what is the marketing and branding strategy? So what new products are you putting marketing dollars behind? What regions are getting the changes in the incremental dollars? And I'm sure your marketing people want more dollars so how closely tied do you expect incremental marketing dollars to be to product sales? I'll do my best to answer that complex of questions.
In general what we did early -- as you know I've been here about five years what we did early in the 10 year was we pulled back on some of the marketing spending which I thought was appropriate given our business condition and given the progress we had yet to make on strengthening the performance.
And as we talked about in prior quarters as we strengthen the internal story it becomes more appropriate to invest and so taking that message on road.
And so that's what I think we're going to be doing now.
So all other things being equal I would expect to see us increase marketing.
Around which products and strategies well clearly we have a big opportunity for communication around what Bill Gross is doing based on his own market influence.
Whether that costs us a bunch of dollars or not most of that really is driven by media that we don't pay for but that clearly changes the exposure for not just for our fixed income but for our entire firm and it's a great strength.
We have Myron Scholes a Nobel Laureate working on asset allocation with Ashwin Alankar.
That's a new product coming out.
We'll expect to put some significant push behind that.
And then as I mentioned earlier in the call we're seeing strength across a breadth of fixed income and equity and balanced strategies that we'll be investing in more.
Net-net I think a modest increase in marketing is appropriate but I wouldn't expect it to be any kind of radical increase.
We're still fundamentally trying hard to be very disciplined about how we run the business.
And I'll add to that Ken you asked us a specific question on whether it's tied to sales.
Certainly in our budgeting process when we think about how we allocate the marketing spend we are looking at kind of a 12 to 24 month sales outlook that our distribution folks are putting forth.
And if they are wanting to generate more sales we're going to give them more marking dollars.
So there is a very explicit tie there.
And now for the bad topside personnel turnover.
Can you talk about the turnover in investment professionals at Janus? I think the PM ranks have been pretty stable but it seems like there has been elevated if not really elevated turnover in the ranks of the analysts particularly the team leaders over the last call it six to nine months.
So can you give us some background on the changes that have taken place? And maybe how you are managing the risks on the transitions particularly in the context of performance which has gotten much better over the last couple of years? Well thanks very much for recognizing what I think is true which is that we've had a significant amount of stability on the portfolio management side over recent periods.
Overall I don't think our turnover is remarkably different than industry turnover.
And to get more specific to your question I don't believe our turnover at the analyst level is particularly remarkable at least I haven't personally remarked on it is as exceptional.
Let me talk about one element.
A long-time Head of Research the boss of all the analysts here at Janus Jim Goff retired not too long ago and we appointed Carmel Wellso as our New Director of Research.
She is absolutely first class.
We're thrilled to have her in that seat.
And we are very optimistic that she can continue the good work of attracting and retaining the best talent.
So I think for a long period of time if you look at the results of our analyst-led products like our research products we've had great strength.
A core strength of this firm has been excellent analyst and excellent research.
I think that continues to be true.
In fact I think its gathering positive momentum.
And I think we've added a few analysts recently that I think are quite strong and will be a great addition to the already very strong team.
So overall I'd say strong records strong team and great new talent would be the way I'd tell the story which admittedly has had some odds with the implication of your question but that's how I see it.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
This is Adam Beatty in for Mike.
Appreciate all the additional disclosure on the performance piece.
I was just wondering in terms of seasonality whether there were certain products or measurement periods concentrated during the year? For example are interim one through three quarters more likely to be short-term measurement or is there any other correlation we should be aware of? Adam Jennifer and I'll try to give you some current statistics.
I don't have any more kind of correlation that would help you do forecasting.
But if it is helpful we can talk about what's drove the INTECH performance fees in the first quarter.
We had the Global Large Cap Core product and the U.S.
Enhanced Plus both driving a significant portion of those fees in the first quarter.
And then turning to commutation you mentioned some mark-to-market in the quarter.
Do you disclose that amount anywhere or is there a balance that we should be looking at to get a sense of sizing that? We don't disclose that.
But in lieu of disclosing it very specifically we're giving you guidance each quarter on where we expect the year's LTI to come out.
So hopefully you can triangulate from that.
We'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Could you disclose what was the Dai-Ichi contribution of flows? And I think historically the last couple of quarters the life sciences has been a big component of that.
I'm wondering if that's becoming more diversified if that shifted at all? The flows from DAIM weren't significant during the quarter but I think your context is exactly correct.
The relationship at March 31 overall was about $2.6 billion through DAIM and they've been a terrific partner.
And our great strength in life science was and has been a crucial and very significant part of that flow story.
What's happened more recently in Tokyo is investors in Japan have turned towards local investing.
And they are buying JGB's they're buying the local stock market and that's not really the strong suite of our product offerings with our partners at DAIM in Tokyo.
So I don't take any sort of negative implication from that.
But as appetites rotate in Tokyo we'll have periods where we have greater opportunity and those where we have somewhat less opportunity.
Now I would say it's somewhat less given that you're buying the local bonds and local stocks.
And then just on the expense side with G&amp;A.
I think the quarter-over-quarter change you highlight around the deal expense removal is this what you can consider to be kind of a normalized level for the remainder of the year or with some modest growth or how would you characterize it? I'd characterize it as having some modest growth going forward while there were some one-time expenses in the fourth quarter that you can back out which I highlighted during the presentation.
Going forward I think we'll see some increases in T&amp;E a lot of that comes with sales.
And we also have a slight increase anticipated in some of our software spend.
So as we're investing in our infrastructure we're seeing that go up a little bit.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Katz with Citi.
This is [ph] Jack Lew filling in for Bill Katz.
My first question is on fundamental equity.
Were there any lumpy wins or losses in fundamental equity in the first quarter? And just in general where you're seeing lift in that? I'm not aware of a lot of lumpiness in those flows.
So I think the answer to that is no but I don't want to be too strong in that because there maybe a lump I'm not focused on.
But I'm not aware of any significant lumpiness to call your attention to in those numbers.
What I would say is the numbers are being driven in significant part by retail and intermediary.
As we talked about before we're seeing momentum and strength in that channel.
And as I mentioned we're seeing it across a pretty wide range of equity in fixed income and balanced products.
And so I can't just highlight one or two.
And then on the INTECH side I know you mentioned it a bit earlier on but flows looked weak for this quarter while BlackRock saw an upturn in mathematical equity.
Do you think this is more of a share loss issue or a mixed shift; A.
And then B what do you think the upside is in general for this business going forward? INTECH business is substantially institutional and as we've talked about in prior quarters their flows are subject to some significant variation lumpiness quarter-to-quarter and so some of that remains true.
They have some large cap U.S.
equity strategies that are under a fair amount of pressure.
They have some other strategies like their traditional their longest track in Enhanced that's been very strong.
They have some global and other strategies that are strong.
And they continue to have positive flows coming from outside the U.S.
which has been a consistent contributor over recent periods.
And lastly when talking about INTECH I'll call attention to the fact that they've done some early significant new product development around managed volatility that I think creates opportunities for them.
In the short-term on the institutional side and in the long-term I think on the U.S.
retail side I think that's a valuable product offering for them.
So overall I think the leadership team there is doing a very good job.
And the quarter-to-quarter lumpiness in flows I don't think speaks loudly to their trajectory.
We'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is Andrew Disdier sitting in for Michael.
So first focusing on the growth in blend platform obviously a strong quarter.
But just going forward curious to get your thoughts on the sustainability of trends in light of some investment performance trends and the strategy that you're currently seeing interest? And then may be some less favorable seasonal trends going forward as well? I don't know if that I have a lot to say on the seasonal trends.
In some of the channels you see some seasonality around changes and strategies and reviews in the first quarter and such.
But I think more importantly we are really getting paid to produce risk adjusted returns that beat the index first and then if we do that consistently beat our peer group substantially.
And where we do that I think we'll be rewarded by flows.
A lot of those flows are going to be market share.
And so for us to grow significantly I don't think we require active equities as an industry to grow.
Significantly I think there are plenty of opportunities to capture market share from less successful managers.
And so in terms of sustainability I think that the business is so large and the opportunities for us to substitute for others is significant enough that it could be sustainable so long as we deliver the core promise of strong risk adjusted returns beating index and then overtime beating peers.
That's obviously a high bar.
It's a high standard.
But we have been increasingly successful at meeting that across the range of products we've been talking about this morning.
And that's frankly the business plan to continue to do that.
And so long as we do I think we have a very very bright future.
And then secondly just curious to get your thoughts on the recent proposals from the DOL related to holding brokers to fiduciary standards really when you're dealing with the retirement accounts.
And so it seems like from an asset management standpoint the rules promote lower cost of funds with strong investment performance track records which is really just business as usual.
But it also seems that there could be an impact to the underlying economics of sales and the retirement channel so just curious to get your thoughts on the potential issues more broadly.
And also how they might impact Janus if at all? I think everybody agrees with the basic goal of these efforts.
Everybody wants to have a strong and clear set of legal duties creating boundaries around the services and products we give to our clients.
So the thrust of the effort I don't think is controversial.
The devil is always of course in the details.
And I don't think we fully understand the details yet.
And so it's hard for me to predict the application of those details on the various business channels.
I read with interest Larry Thinnes comments during his earnings call about his thoughts in this area.
And maybe he's got access to different information or a better insight into how it's going to turnout.
But for now I don't feel like we're well enough informed to make strong predictions about this new standard and the application through the different channels in our business.
And we'll take our final question from Robert Lee with KBW.
I guess while I was just curious about going to INTECH is it possible to get maybe a little bit more color are there specific strategies or books of business where you're kind of seeing more of the outflow pressure than others? And if there's any maybe you could size those for us so we maybe have some sense of at least as it relates to that business where is some of the risk maybe.
I don't have that data for you this quarter.
We can talk about breaking that out in a special section in future quarter.
In general large cap U.S.
equity space a lot of the clients are public institutions and plans in the U.S.
and that has been a pressured space for them for three reasons.
First it hasn't been the side of their strongest investment performance and they're accountable for that.
Second some significant number of those clients are barbelling their portfolios and then moving a significant portion of their large cap U.S.
equity business to passive.
And then they're taking active risk in other places and that has put pressure on them.
And then third if you look back a couple years the U.S.
quantitative management industry was under a whole lot of pressure certainly that included INTECH.
I think that pressure is ameliorating as we speak especially outside the United States but that sort of the industry-wide trend certainly affected their outcome.
So they struggled particularly in the large cap U.S.
equity space and they have a handful of strategies in that space.
So apologies for not being more specific but we can take a look at doing a breakout in that in the future quarter and give you a little more specific information on how big each of their strategies are.
End of Q&amp;A And I would now like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Nothing special here.
We just appreciate everybody's time and attention.
We're pleased with the results of this quarter but two quarters in a row of positive flows are not enough.
And so we recognize that while we're pleased with the number of elements of the story so far we've still got a lot of work ahead of us.
And we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.