Good morning.
My name is Dana and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area at janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objective business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arrive after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make and its reports filed with the SEC.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the second quarter 2015 Janus Capital Group earnings call.
As usual I'll make some introductory remarks and then I'll turn it over to Jennifer McPeek who will take us through the financial information a bit more precisely and then at the back half we'll turn to some special topics that have been raised by investors and folks who cover us during the quarter and lastly we'll take your questions.
So with that second quarter 2015 I think the first headline is obviously that we've had the third consecutive quarter of positive long-term net flows led by our Janus Fundamental Equities team.
The second thing which I think leaps off the page for this quarter is of course our acquisition of Kapstream which is an Australian company that is focused on the unconstrained bond business and we're very pleased to add them to our team and we'll talk about that much more specifically here in a minute.
Turning away from sort of the headlines as I said total company net flows were $200 million positive for the third consecutive quarter.
Janus equity net flows were positive $1 billion also their third consecutive quarter of positive net flows that represents an organic growth of approximately 5% versus a 1% organic decline for active equity U.S.
Mutual Funds per Simfund.
So we're gaining market share in that effort and we're proud of that.
Fixed income had $300 million of net inflows led by our fundamental fixed income business.
Their annualized organic growth rate of 3% also is a little bit ahead of the mutual fund industry as reported by Simfund.
Complex-wide investment performance continues to be pretty strong with more than 50% of the assets in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one-year three-year and five-year basis.
And finally I will call your attention to the fact that in the second quarter our operating margins were north of 30%.
Over the last 12 months we've generated $217 million of cash flow from operations indicating I think that we continue to do a pretty decent job on business discipline and looking out for the shareholders' interest in terms of cash flow generation.
With that I will turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Great.
Thank you Dick and good morning everyone.
I will begin on page five of our presentation with a quick review of our operating results for the quarter.
Average AUM for the quarter was $193.0 billion which is up 4% over the prior quarter.
Revenue is also up 4% at $271.9 million.
Operating income came in at $82 million and that is an 8% increase over the first quarter.
Earnings per share were flat at $0.23 for the second quarter and that EPS number includes a one penny net impact related to three one-time items.
I will discuss those in more detail when I get to slide nine.
Turning now to slide six we will discuss our investment performance as of June 30.
On a complex-wide basis we saw some improvement in our three-year numbers with 75% of our assets ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
This compares to 69% last quarter and 63% a year ago.
Quarter-over-quarter improvement was driven primarily by improving results in several Janus global equity strategies as well as improvement in several of our fixed income strategies.
Quarter-over-quarter there wasn't too much change in the results of fundamental equity strategies.
On the one-year basis we actually have 67% of assets in the top Morningstar quartiles so that's the top one Morningstar quartile it's not on this page has 67% of fundamental equity strategies.
Fixed income performance saw the biggest improvement in its three-year number which is back to 100% of assets ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
That statistic had briefly dipped to 68% last quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter improvement in fixed income was driven primarily by results in the high-yield and short-term bond strategies.
In our mathematical equity strategies we saw a decline in the three-year and five-year metrics as 43% and 58% of relative return strategies outperformed their benchmarks at the end of the second quarter.
This compares to 69% and 75% at the end of the first quarter.
And on a complex-wide basis 50% our mutual funds had a 4-star or 5-star rating from Morningstar which again compares to an industry average of 32.5%.
Looking now at our standard flows presentation on page seven you can see that the second quarter total company net inflows were positive $200 million.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of positive net flows.
On the right hand side of the page we break it out into three subcategories.
Fundamental equity outflows were $100 million out in the quarter and if you recall fundamental equity includes both Janus equity which was positive $1 billion for the quarter and Perkins strategies which were outflow into the quarter.
Mathematical flows were breakeven and now was actually a $1.3 billion improvement over the first quarter flows.
Fixed income net flows remained positive in what was a very volatile quarter with a lot of a macro headwinds.
Beginning in the third quarter flows from Kapstream will be included in the fixed income category.
On slide eight we see total revenue increased 4% over the prior quarter.
This increase was driven by the higher average assets and it was partially offset by the expected quarterly timing of private account performance fee revenue.
Weighted average management fees for the current quarter were 48.6 basis points and that compares to 48.5 basis points last quarter.
A little bit more detail on performance fees.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $6.6 million.
This was about $2 million improvement over the first quarter.
Our private account performance fees declined to $2.2 million and that compares to $6.4 million in the first quarter due to that previously mentioned seasonality.
Our VelocityShares ETN revenue is reported in the other revenue bucket and that was $3.5 million for the second quarter.
Turning to the next page we detail our quarter-over-quarter operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased only 2% compared to the prior quarter or $3.1 million up.
This increase was primarily due to $2 million in non-recurring deal expenses so one-time deal expenses that related to our Kapstream transaction.
That is captured in the G&amp;A line and the net impact of that to earnings per share is approximately $0.01.
Total compensation for the second quarter which includes comp and benefits and LTI was $110.9 million and that was down slightly from the first quarter.
As you recall these figures are seasonal with a higher number in the first quarter.
Our total comp-to-revenue ratio for the second quarter was 40.8% compared to 42.5% in the first quarter.
As we look forward to the second half of 2015 we anticipate that our comp-to-revenue ratios will continue to be in the low 40%s.
Our full-year 2015 estimate for LTI expense remains unchanged at $75 million to $80 million.
I'll also note below the line this quarter we had a few items that I'd like to highlight.
They're not on this page but you will see them in our filings and our press release.
First other income this quarter included a $3 million FX loss and that reflects moves in the Australian dollar/U.S.
dollar exchange rate which occurred after we purchased currency for the Kapstream transaction.
This one-time loss was offset by another one-time net gain relating to state taxes which is the reason that we have a lower effective tax rate this quarter.
Turning now to slide 10 and our balance sheet our cash balance decreased by $56 million at the end of the quarter.
This was largely due to funds transferred into the non-current asset bucket in advance of the Kapstream transaction.
That transaction occurred on July 1 so isn't included in this quarter.
Investment securities increased during the quarter by $20 million.
That largely reflects changes in our seed capital (11:34) book including the launch of our Adaptive Global Allocation strategy.
We also continue to return cash to shareholders this quarter which we had share buybacks of about $11 million quarterly dividends of $17 million and generated cash flow from operations of $217 million over the last 12 months.
Now we're going to turn to the special topic section.
I'm going to cover some facts about our recently-acquired subsidiary Kapstream and some of the transaction terms and then Dick will put the acquisition in more of a strategic context.
Here on page 12 we detail some of the facts around Kapstream our recently-acquired subsidiary in Australia.
Kapstream currently has about $7 billion in assets under management that's in U.S.
dollars.
They have 10 employees and they distribute primarily in Australia and New Zealand.
Company is actually headquartered in Sydney and they have a key member of their leadership team already based in Newport Beach.
As you can see on the right-hand side of the page the revenue growth has been extremely impressive and the business has also experienced excellent organic growth underlying that.
They have an average annualized organic growth rate of 20% over the last three years.
As we noted in our press release the deal included upfront consideration of $85 million for 51% ownership stake with the minority 49% stake remaining in the hands of management.
While we purchased the distribution partner Challenger's equity stake we also preserved the distribution relationship there with a long-term agreement.
We have call rights on management's minority stake beginning three years post the transaction close.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Dick to walk us through some of the strategic backdrops for the transaction.
Thanks Jennifer.
So as we look at the Kapstream transaction in the context of our intelligent diversification strategy why did we do this? Well the first answer is standalone in Australia this is a great business.
Over the last five years the total revenue has grown at a CAGR of 55% and has had very strong organic growth as Jennifer underlined a moment ago.
So standalone it's a great business.
Separately they are great investors that are leading this business.
Kumar and Steve Goldman and the team are really first class people and investors and they have been hitting their performance targets and keeping their promises to their clients and we expect that will continue.
The third reason is Australia is a terrific market for asset management.
The Australian asset management market's been growing at a CAGR of 9% over the last 14 years and they have an international or globally leading structural commitment to saving for retirement with their superannuation fund structures.
So it's a very attractive market and this advances us in that market very substantially.
The next point to make is obviously there are potential synergies.
This team is uniquely positioned to reinforce Bill and his effort to grow his unconstrained bond strategy.
They have common history some history back at PIMCO and they understand his strategies and can help Bill push his business forward and so we think the potential synergies there are substantial going forward.
And lastly in the context of our intelligent diversification this transaction increases our total non-U.S.
as well as our total fixed income AUM by 20% each respectively while providing future opportunities for additional growth outside of the United States.
And so for all these reasons we thought this was a special transaction that offered great advantages for us and we've very very happy to welcome Kumar and the Kapstream team on to the Janus Capital team.
Turning now to slide 14 let's segue from the Kapstream business to a non-U.S.
business update for Janus Capital.
On slide 14 in the upper left you can see our distribution footprint.
Very obviously we've just made a major investment in strengthening our hand in Australia and hopefully that team and that effort will bring benefits well beyond the borders of Australia in a global business over the coming years.
On the upper right of slide 14 we outline the assets under management development over recent years.
With a growth rate of 21% since December of 2010 I think the message is this has been and remains a very important strategic priority for us and it's working.
And with that said the addition of the Kapstream business and team just further adds strength and adds to our optimism for our ability to capitalize on this momentum in the future.
In 2015 we're seeing net flows in a lot of different regions across different strategies across some institutional pockets as well as retail.
Year-to-date we've experienced nearly 14% annualized organic growth and so we continue to be making good progress in this area.
And in analyzing that it's important to note that a lot of this progress has been made with the help and support of our strategic partner Dai-ichi Life in Japan and their 50% subsidiary DIAM that have helped us immensely in developing our business in Tokyo and they've been great partners for us and that's been a really important part of this very successful development of our non-U.S.
business.
Currently we're managing $2.1 billion of Dai-ichi assets across our advisors.
Additionally our relationship with DIAM continues to grow and as of June 30 we're managing approximately $2.2 billion of assets with DIAM.
With that said thanks for your time and attention.
I will turn it to the operator to take questions.
And we will take our first question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Jennifer I appreciate some of the color on Kapstream but can you maybe dig into that a little bit more maybe get a little bit – from a modeling perspective maybe get a little bit more detail on what kind of their fee rates are kind of how we should think of it flowing through I guess will be a non-controlling interest that flows through the P&amp;L going forward and then maybe also they've had organic growth but can you maybe give us a sense of kind of how it's been running in the last quarter or two in kind of maybe an absolute dollar sense couple of questions there? Yeah you threw a few at me.
Sure I will start with your question around how we bought about modeling the transaction.
So the business at Kapstream has had as you've seen in our presentation some really healthy revenue growth and they have some really strong distribution so we look at that business we valued it standalone I look at it compared to other Australian asset managers and felt that the valuation was very consistent with their performance their recent performance their recent growth.
I think we gave a stat in the presentation of 20% average three-year organic growth.
In the last year it's been 17%.
The year before that it was 25%.
So that gives you a sense it's been consistently high.
We weren't using the three-year average to try to create a higher number.
It's been very consistent in the high-double digits.
I think that was something that was put up in one of the analysts' reports that was a little bit off.
It's been very high organic growth.
And then what was your other question Rob? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Well I guess just really from a modeling perspective it'd be helpful just to maybe know what their kind of blended fee rate is and how we kind of mix that into revenue forecast and then I assume they will be a non-controlling interest and I guess really just trying to get some of the finer points of modeling blending it into the model going forward? Sure.
So they have pretty consistent fee rates to fixed income managers and they have about 60% institutional and 40% retail.
So we're not disclosing their client-by-client fee rates because that's proprietary but these are actively managed strategies.
They're not passive so take an estimate of actively managed fixed income fee rates on put that split on it you'll get pretty close.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay and well maybe my second question I mean you've got Kapstream you rolled out bunch of allocation products you got VelocityShares so just kind of curious how we should be thinking of your marketing and distribution spend back half of this year into next year lot of things to talk about so what kind of – how should we be thinking of that in terms of rate of increase or not? Sure.
I would expect to see some increase in our marketing spend but nothing extraordinary as we're seeing all these products and all these great performing new stories to tell.
We're supporting that with marketing spend.
I'm actually looking at our Head of Marketing right now who is smiling but we're being very cognizant of the good return on those dollars but yeah you should see that go up a little bit over the next few quarters.
Hope that's helpful.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Carrier from Bank of America.
Thank you and good morning.
This is Adam Beatty in for Mike.
Just a question on Kapstream regarding distribution obliviously variety of opportunities there.
I want to get your thoughts on what other Janus products might be suitable for the Australian superannuation market? And also in terms of Kapstream's Newport Beach office were they starting to get into U.S.
distribution or what's their intention there? Thanks.
Hi Adam thanks for the question.
This is Dick.
Yeah let me take your second part first.
There were three equity partners in Kapstream and one of the three had already committed to building the U.S.
business basing himself out of Newport Beach California and that all predated our discussions and agreement with Kapstream.
So the Kapstream team had made a strategic commitment and had done the analysis and determined they thought there was some opportunity for their cash plus 200 basis points or so version of unconstrained bond effort and their push in the products is little bit different.
Bill Gross does more cash plus 500 basis points in his unconstrained bond effort.
So there are presumably opportunities for both versions on a go-forward basis and they had already committed to developing that on their own and I think they look forward to doing that in a better way in partnership with us and certainly most importantly with Bill Gross who is the best there has ever been in the fixed income markets at least in my lifetime.
So I think that's the first point.
The second question was what else do we have that might be salable in Australia? We've had a decent business in Australia now for some time.
We've managed to have some developing relationships down there with some equity products with some of our fundamental fixed income products that are I think appropriate for that marketplace but they're a very sophisticated marketplace.
They buy products across a pretty full range and spectrum and I couldn't tell you it'd be hard to exclude pieces.
I think there are opportunities for a lot of different pieces.
It's worth saying that I think our subsidiary INTECH has had some pretty substantial success in Australia as well in the past and we hope that continues and grows.
We think that the Kapstream team brings stronger market presence relationships and brand strength that we can combine with ours to create not only opportunity for themselves but for the broader product set for Janus.
But it's not just one or two particular things.
It's a pretty broad spectrum of opportunity.
Thank you.
I appreciate the detail.
And just a follow-up on INTECH it looks like net flows and gross sales got somewhat better in the quarter.
Was there anything lumpy there and what are you seeing in terms of the outlook for INTECH? Well INTECH always is – as an institutional business they are always somewhat lumpy.
In terms of generalizing about INTECH it's challenged by the fact that they have – if I get the number wrong then somebody is going to kick me here but 30 or 40 different strategies that operate on the same investment principles but in any given quarter they can generate some pretty differentiated investment returns and so talking about them as a lump can be challenging.
First and foremost I think they have a terrific investment team.
I think they have a great process and I think the process works.
So we're optimistic about their future.
We have acknowledged in the past that in some of their U.S.
institutional large-cap growth product space they had been challenged with industry trends as well as some of their own performance trends and we've talked about that in prior quarters and I think that remains true.
You've also noticed that their newer targeted – Managed Vol Targeted Vol kind of products seem to have a great receptivity particularly outside of the United States and there are lots of opportunities for those.
And so overall I'd say the message on INTECH hasn't changed materially.
We believe in their team.
We believe in their process.
We believe in their growing success in the future but on a quarter-to-quarter basis it's going to be lumpy.
Got it.
Thanks for the detail on Managed Vol.
Appreciate your taking our questions.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I want to focus on actually U.S.
retail distribution.
Maybe can you talk about the Art of WOW campaign and what is the strategy to increase the sales power of the organization within the U.S.? And then I guess the second question would be like to what extent are you having success in terms of getting more brokers and advisors to sell Janus product and are there any figures that you could share with us that indicate progress here? Thanks.
Thanks Ken.
I'll take the first part and I don't have any numbers to answer your second part.
So I'll maybe kick that over to Jennifer.
And if she doesn't have any numbers we'll just plain disappoint you apologies.
But on the first part obviously the success on our business is building long-term sustained relationships with happy clients.
I mean that's really what it's all about.
We need to help people have investment success and compound those happy results and relationships through time.
Turns out when you survey folks really pretty much institutionally and retail they care about investment performance a lot.
That's table stakes.
That's qualifying to hire us but then they also care about a lot of other things and they care about the thought leadership the problem solving ease of access through the interface.
They care about all kinds of do they get timely fast accurate insightful information.
They care about all this basket of other things.
And we've worked hard as a firm not only on investment performance but we've worked hard as a firm on delivering improving other elements so that we can be the partner of choice when folks go to invest.
The Art of WOW is a program that we started as a value-add service to financial advisors where we were helping them with their practice management by helping them create positive surprises with their own client base.
It's been hugely successful.
It's a pretty unique program run by our Janus Labs folks here and it's been great.
What we try to do is take that externally facing program about the advisors business and apply those principles to our internal business so that as we conduct our daily business we try and learn the same lessons about how can we create positive surprise for clients in our relationships.
It's hard.
When a client opens a statement how do you a create a positive surprise? That's not a moment that's usually associated with positive surprise.
We had to solve (28:17) the riddle in lots of these places.
It's a constant and serious challenge but it's the work and the bar against which we have set ourselves and measure ourselves and we will continue pushing in that way because it's critically important that we deliver not only the right investment results but the package of relationship and services et cetera around it that can make us their choice when they go to find an investment partner.
With that I will turn it to Jennifer on your question on the numbers of brokers et cetera.
So I may not have the exact answer you are looking for Ken but I can tell you that we do focus on the market metrics statistics which really measure qualitative aspects of our relationships with advisors and we are seeing a lot of improvement there.
So that's not the hard numbers that I think Dick's looking at me to deliver but it's definitely a positive trend outside the advisor channel and the supermarket channel similar success.
We have currently 21 funds on the Schwab and Fidelity select list so at the end of the first quarter we had 19 funds so that's improving number and good positive momentum there.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Hey Dick.
Hey Jennifer.
This is actually Andrew Disdier filling in for Michael.
So first just focusing on investment performance strengths across the – on the equity side of the business.
As you go through your attribution analysis just curious to hear what some of the drivers behind the more recent improvements have been? Yeah.
Thanks Andrew.
It's a good question but as you'll no doubt already understand it's a complicated answer.
Doing contribution attribution analysis underpinning investment performance is a tricky deal.
Some of it is – I think the market conditions around the performance within our marketplace particularly in equities has created conditions that are more conducive to us generating better performance.
Some of that is the amount of diversity and the way the market has performed has given active managers I think broadly speaking in Janus more specifically some better opportunities to generate performance and you don't want to confuse market conditions with genius and some of it clearly has to be that.
But some of it I think is we have some pretty amazing talent here and it is working together in I think increasingly effective team work and I think some of the attribution of better performance is certainly around that.
We have succeeded in bringing online a new Equity CIO in Enrique Chang.
We succeeded in bringing on a new Director of Research in Carmel Wellso and I think their leadership has been effective in improving alignment and teamwork and it's not only important to have great talent it's important to have great talent that works effectively together in the team and I think we're doing better in that space also.
Great.
I appreciate the color and then aside from Bill Gross your fixed income business continues to gain momentum.
Just wondering how you could – if you could talk about some of the success drivers that have driven the market share gains and then kind of going forward how do you think about relative flow patterns playing out as rates trend higher? Our fundamental fixed income team has been really a model of consistency.
They start with the premise that they want to protect capital so they're inherently a conservative process.
They're mostly credit focused but clearly they also invest across a range of other risk factors and ideas like rates and some currencies and other things but they're credit-first kind of approach and they've been really good at it and generating strong risk-adjusted returns through what have been some pretty darn volatile fixed income markets over the last 5 years and 10 years.
And so that's really the piece of the puzzle that has been driving a lot of fixed income success and we hope we'll continue to do so.
They are what they are and they do it consistently and with excellence and we're very proud of that result and that contribution to the team.
I'm sorry was there a second part? Yeah the second part is just how you think about relative flow trends playing out as rates trend higher? Yeah my crystal ball isn't that good.
So I won't go all Greenspan on you and suggest I can see the future.
But I'll say this.
Eventually rates are going to go higher and I'm not the one to tell you exactly when that's going to happen.
My personal handicap thing is it's not tomorrow but I wouldn't put a huge amount of money on my timing handicap.
What we have done as a firm is we've acknowledged that when that happens I think there is going to be a serious bid for things like unconstrained bonds which are essentially bonds with a lot lower duration and I think people are going to be looking for that kind of risk return pattern with less rates exposure as they anticipate higher rates and then as they experience higher rates.
I think it's also true that that would create a bid for some more absolute return products potentially our liquid alts team potentially some of the asset allocation work that Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar are doing.
So we're trying to position in front of investor demand in smart ways for that eventual market condition when rates are higher but I don't put a lot of stock on my own ability to call the turn of the market and we don't run the business in those sorts of short-term ways but longer term clearly we hope we positioned well for that kind of a marketplace.
Great.
Thanks.
Appreciate you answering our questions.
Okay.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
My questions around – the first one is around Dai-ichi.
You're coming up on your three-year anniversary in August.
I guess does that trigger anything in terms of the change in the relationship and also kind of just an update on the quarter in terms of what they contributed to flows? I will comment on the relationship.
Thanks Dan.
As we've said numerous times it's been a traffic relationship.
I have acknowledged I think we've been public about the fact that the way the contracts work Dai-ichi has an opportunity and a legal right to withdraw from the relationship if they want to starting at the end of the year through a process that's outlined in the contracts.
That said I think Dai-ichi and Janus Capital have both benefited and enjoy the relationship and I don't anticipate any change in the nature of the relationship and indeed they've made quite specific comments to me that I can say that that reflects their attitude also so I think nobody expects any change but it is fair to note that the contracts provide this legal right to them starting at the end of the year.
And in regards to the question about flows in the second quarter we were actually slightly negative from DIAM.
Our assets at the end of quarter were $2.2 billion and I think that's largely reflecting some currency moves and rebalancing and profit taking relating to dollar/yen.
Great thanks.
And as a follow-up I guess we've talked about a couple of the opportunities both internationally and the question was asked earlier about retail.
I guess as you think about your three distribution channels and you think about the next 6 months to 12 months I guess what are you most excited about or enthusiastic about in terms of the gross sales opportunity between those three channels? You're asking us to pick favorites.
Yeah.
I don't have a great answer for you.
I am optimistic that we can make progress in each of those baskets.
I think clearly the most important business we have without any question is our U.S.
what we call retail sold through intermediaries business and I think we continue to make progress in that.
I think the second thing to state quite obviously is we've made a lot of progress in our non-U.S.
businesses and in the aggregate that's probably the next biggest opportunity for us and then I think we've also been candid that we've been working hard to do better in the U.S.
institutional space.
And we're chip chip chipping away at that business as well and making some progress but that's probably slower developing and a little bit of a smaller near-term opportunity than the other two.
Great thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Question for you guys on some product specific basis so the Global Life Sciences Fund obviously has been an important contributor to flow for you guys given the fact that a large competitor recently closed theirs.
Can you talk a little bit about I guess the opportunity to sell more? What are you guys hearing from FAs and consultants selling that product and just maybe a little bit more about capacity constraints that you could see in that business? Yeah sure.
Thanks Alex.
We always try and be a little bit careful about how much we talk about individual strategies particularly if those strategies exist in a mutual fund form because we don't want to get all tangled up in regulations around selling so I don't want to be perceived as selling a mutual fund on this call by any means.
I think it's fair to say Andy Acker with this healthcare strategy is doing an absolutely world-class job.
He knows his space.
He has done terrific job in creating value for his clients and he has communicated his strategies well in a way that are selling rapidly domestically as well as around the world and it's been a really wonderful success for us.
I think when it's a single sector that's been so hot we are working really hard to try and make sure that our relationships are broader than just one product.
And you're always a little bit challenged when you have a single sector fund that's so red hot quite the compliment to Andy what a great job he's doing but we want to make sure we grow relationships that are broader than just investments in a particular sector.
And so we're working very hard to do that but we're not at any capacity constraints at the moment.
And we see opportunities to continue to grow that very special product on a go-forward basis.
So we continue to be optimistic.
We're working to maximize that but to diversify relationships in addition to that and mostly Andy has just done a fantastic job.
Great.
Thanks.
I shouldn't say just Andy Andy and the research team that's contributed to that as well.
Thanks.
And Jennifer just a quick follow-up for you on performance fees in private accounts those are a little bit tougher to see so maybe given where we are today and knowing what you guys know about performance so far year-to-date any sense of how the full-year performance of your number of private accounts could shake out? Thanks Alex and welcome to the coverage team.
We did a little bit of a breakout in last quarter's presentation where we talked about the split of the performance fees which are largely at INTECH when they get paid and what the term is.
And one of the key insights from that is that there is a substantial proportion of the performance fees that are on a one-year or shorter basis and so it's hard for us to forecast that.
We do know that we get a lot more performance fee contracts paid in the first quarter than the second quarter.
So the decline quarter-over-quarter is very consistent with that.
But I really hesitate to do any prognosticating on those because future performance is as much of a driver as historical.
Yeah no that makes sense.
Great thanks.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll go to Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
Thanks for squeezing me in here; question on your non-U.S.
business.
Thanks a lot for providing the historical growth rates on Slide 14.
Just wondering if you could comment what do those growth rates look like if we excluded Japan and away from Japan where are the regions or areas that you're seeing a lot of traction? All right.
I'll try to do some quick math and see if I can get that for you and let Dick answer the more qualitative question.
Yeah I think we are seeing certainly growth opportunities in Japan within those (45:11).
I think we're optimistic that with Kapstream we're going to see very significant growth opportunities in Australia for their historic products but also hopefully broadening out to a strengthening footprint across a broader set of products.
We are seeing some inroads and opportunities in other sort of key non-U.S.
institutional marketplaces.
We're optimistic that we'll see some growth in places like the Middle East and some other key institutional marketplaces but that stuff's lumpy.
It's really hard to predict and it's not a quarter-by-quarter kind of a prediction.
It doesn't fit well into a quarter-by-quarter kind of thought process.
And we're also seeing kick-up in retail.
We're seeing some growth in retail in the new effort that we've made in Taiwan some growth in retail in Singapore some growth in retail in Hong Kong.
It's pretty broad-based growth across a lot of different markets and it recovers both institutional and retail so by its nature a little bit defied easy summary with apologies.
I don't have an ex-Japan growth rate number to share with you.
Maybe we can include something like that on a future call or Jennifer's – did you do quick math you have some? Maybe not exactly that number but I am looking at the breakdown for sales overseas.
In the last two quarters we actually had the largest amount – largest regional percentage coming from Europe so the last two quarters have had more sales from Europe than Japan than Asia ex-Japan Australia or are other various geographies so yeah Europe has been the recent driver of sales over the last two quarters.
Great thanks very much.
All right.
With that let me bring us to conclusion.
Let me just review.
I think it's clear I hope we've been consistent that we understand our success to be founded on delivering a strong and stable partnership first and most importantly for the clients; second for our employees; and third our owners.
And I think we try to take the right steps in strengthening the balance sheet in strengthening the culture and the leadership and bringing in the right talent in all those kinds of ways and then in focusing not only on investment performance but in all the other elements that matter to our clients so that we can be a trusted partner for each of those client owner and employee groups.
We're gaining market share in equity and in fixed income but it's critical as always that we maintain investment performance so that we can continue to do that.
This call we're obviously excited to welcome the Kapstream team.
Janus needs to be a place where great investors come to invest and I think the Kapstream team is clearly qualified and is welcome.
Looking forward – looking ahead we see our industries facing some challenging trends.
They've all been positive in recent quarters.
We've seen a lot of elevated risk in markets from China through Greece challenging investors and creating challenging business conditions alike.
And so our best forecast is we'll continue to see a lot of volatility going forward at least for the rest of the year and probably beyond that.
The good news is we have greater investment talent better teamwork better reputation and client opportunities than at any time in recent memory so despite that volatility we hope and plan to continue to succeed.
With that thanks very much for joining the call.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.