Good morning.
My name is Danny and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factors section of the company's most recent Form 10-K and other most recent filings made by the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
As usual I'll give you a bit of an executive summary to start us off.
Jennifer McPeek will take us through the results in some more detail.
We will then turn to some topics of special interest that have arisen during the quarter and finally we'll take your questions.
So on to the executive summary.
The story of the third quarter from my perspective has really three primary pieces: flows performance and strategy.
On the flows total company net flows were $3.3 billion out compared to slightly positive in the second quarter.
This was driven by a couple of different things.
First and most significantly there were $2.9 billion of that $3.3 billion outflow which were institutional or lumpy individual decisions.
Obviously they count and we don't want to say they are one-time only but neither do we expect them to repeat every quarter.
The second thing is the third quarter was a challenging market and industry background for us.
Active equity strategies across the mutual fund industry saw annualized organic loss of 3% during the quarter and active fixed income strategy saw an annualized organic loss of 6% all according to Simfund.
So I think we know that this summer had a lot of market volatility with the bond with the equities and the treasuries.
And we know that it was a difficult environment for mutual fund flows and active investment flows in particular.
So I would say the combination of those two factors made a tough quarter for us in terms of total flows.
That said we did see organic growth and strong market share gains during the quarter across a number of our really well performing strategies.
We saw it in mid-cap growth in global life in global tech and global multisector fixed income and balanced and emerging market strategies.
And so we're encouraged.
As I said at the start the story of the third quarter has three primary pieces: flows performance and strategy.
We've just addressed flows.
Let me move on to investment performance.
Despite a very volatile external environment both from an investment perspective and a business perspective in the third quarter we saw some very good performance across our product offerings.
Complex wide 70% of our assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 79% were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a three-year basis.
During the quarter 78% of assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
Obviously the third quarter is an unreasonably short period of time in which to measure investment performance but it's nice that many of our strategies were succeeding during that time albeit a short time.
Let's look at it in the various business pieces.
Janus Equity.
Performance in this our most important franchise continues to be very strong with 66% of the assets ranked in the first quartile relative to peers on a one-year basis and 63% ranked in the first quartile relative to peers on a three-year basis.
This strong performance is really a meaningful improvement from recent years and reflects a lot of great work done by Enrique Chang our CIO; by Carmel Wellso our new DOR and by the whole team.
On the fixed income side fixed income performance saw the biggest improvement in its one-year number with 75% of assets ranked in the top-two Morningstar quartiles compared to 6% last quarter.
Now remember as we discussed last quarter the fixed income numbers can move around a bit more volatile because they're a fairly conservative approach to fixed income usually ends up being not so distant from the midpoint.
And so we can see some more dramatic swings in these statistics which really don't reflect huge swings in investment performance.
But that said our Fixed Income business continues to do very well through this volatile market period.
80% of the assets are ranked first quartile compared to peers on a three-year basis.
Let's turn to mathematical equity.
80% of the relative return strategies were beating their benchmarks on a one-year basis net of fees.
On a year-to-date basis 90% of the relative return strategies were beating their benchmarks net of fees.
A newer area of development in addition to their relative return strategies are their INTECH's absolute return strategies.
We're very encouraged by the performance of this new area of business.
100% of these strategies were beating benchmarked returns on both year-to-date and one-year basis net of fees.
During the third quarter for just that small period of time again 100% of INTECH strategies both relative and absolute beat their respective benchmarks.
Now let's turn to Perkins.
While longer-term performance metrics at Perkins continue to lag peers and benchmarks we're encouraged that during this most recent period of market volatility their performance has been strong.
Over the last three months 100% of Perkins mutual fund assets were ranked in the top-two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers.
And on a year-to-date basis Perkins largest strategies are beating their respective benchmarks as an example small cap in value is outperforming about 455 basis points.
So let's turn finally to VelocityShares.
While assets in the existing ETF suite are pretty small today we're very pleased that they also performed well during the third quarter specifically during the window of elevated market volatility in late August and early September the Janus Velocity Tail Risk and Janus Velocity volatility ETF significantly outperformed the S&amp;P.
So the takeaways I think on the investment performance side are our investments teams are doing a really good job.
They're taking advantage of this market volatility to establish good relative performance which is exactly what they should be doing and it's very encouraging to see that the strategies are designed to perform well under more difficult market conditions are doing their jobs through this summer period.
I mentioned the third piece of the story of the quarter for me is strategy.
As we've discussed on these calls previously over the past several years we've been executing a strategy which we call intelligent diversification.
A key pillar of that strategy has been expansion of our non-U.S.
business which continues to generate strong growth.
Today our non-U.S.
business makes up about 20% of the firm's AUM compared to 8% in 2010.
I'm proud to say that year-to-date this business has had $3.6 billion of net inflows which is an annualized organic growth rate of 17% driven by strong results both in Europe and Japan.
As part of our strategic execution we've also made two acquisitions over the last year and we're happy to report those are both bearing fruit albeit it's early days but during the third quarter VelocityShares had a 16% increase in average assets led by its Exchange Traded Notes it's ETN's most specifically its equity volatility offering.
Since the acquisition a year ago average assets in this business are up over 80%.
Turning to Kapstream.
Kapstream's been fully consolidated into our business this quarter and we're excited to welcome them.
They're a terrific addition to the team.
As I mentioned they have a great business driven primarily by strong organic growth in Australia.
They are great investors delivering consistent and positive absolute returns for their clients and the Australian asset management market in which they primarily participate today is a terrific market with government-mandated structural growth characteristics.
And so we're very excited about Kapstream and we note that they contributed a positive $300 million to the net flow total this quarter.
With that let me turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
I will begin on page five of the presentation to walk through the financial highlights.
Our average AUM was down slightly 1% compared to the second quarter.
Average AUM was negatively impacted by the decline in markets and the outflows and these were partially offset by the addition of Kapstream's assets which started on July 1.
Not included in assets under management is VelocityShares their average assets were $3.3 billion which as Dick mentioned was up 16% from the prior quarter.
Revenue was $273.8 million.
That's a 1% increase over second quarter and a 16% increase compared to last year.
Operating income was $83.4 million.
That's a 2% increase over the prior quarter and 17% year-over-year improvement.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.22 for the third quarter which compares to $0.23 in the prior quarter.
The adjusted EPS excludes a $0.12 one-time charge related to debt retirement that occurred during the quarter.
Turning now to slide six this is our standard investment performance disclosure.
I think Dick has probably stolen most of the thunder here as he's given quite a bit of detail around the performance which is a great performance across all time periods and really across the whole platform.
You can see it here reflected consistently in our standard presentation.
So I'll move onto slide seven which is the flows.
Third quarter total company net outflows were $3.3 billion and that does not include the funding out of Japan that has been mentioned in the media recently.
That mandate will be reflected in the fourth quarter flows.
Fundamental equity outflows were $1.5 billion and that includes $500 million in outflows from Janus Equity and $1 billion in outflows from Perkins strategies.
Mathematical outflows were $1.6 billion for the quarter which results from a 32% decline in gross sales and a 41% increase in redemptions.
Fixed income which includes our fundamental fixed income and global macro businesses both Newport Beach and Kapstream Australia had net outflows for the quarter of $200 million during a challenging market environment.
Not obvious from these flowcharts is the fact that actually all three of our disciplines were in inflows in the non-U.S.
client segment for the quarter.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter of positive net flows in our non-U.S.
business.
Turning to slide eight.
We'll start breaking down some of the financials.
Revenue and performance fees total revenue increased 1% over the prior quarter.
Performance fees for both mutual funds and private accounts were better than the prior quarter and that's the reason that revenue increased on a decline in AUM.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $3.9 million which is an almost $3 million improvement from the second quarter and I'll note it's $11 million better than we saw in the third quarter last year.
Private account performance fees also improved they were $2.7 million positive compared to $2.2 million in the second quarter.
This reflects that extremely strong performance in INTECH specifically in INTECH Enhanced Strategy.
VelocityShares revenue is reported in other revenue and was $4.3 million in the third quarter.
Turning now to slide nine operating expenses.
Total operating expenses were about flat compared to the prior quarter increasing less than 1%.
However there are quite a few increases and decreases underlying that result so I'll walk through them.
Starting first with G&amp;A.
G&amp;A increased $5.1 million from the prior quarter.
Since we had deal costs which we called out to you in the second quarter this increase may not be intuitive and it was largely related to two factors.
The first factor in the increase was an unusually large trade error in the third quarter.
The second factor was an adjustment in the expected VelocityShares earn-out which is a result of their increased assets and revenue.
This is obviously a positive and it occurred this quarter.
Note that with this adjustment we now have accounted for 75% of the potential earn-out under the acquisition.
Normalizing out both of these items I would expect to see a more run rate G&amp;A in the low 30s.
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter was down 6% from the second quarter.
The decline was primarily a result of the lower profitability's impact on our variable comp pools and a decline in commissionable sales quarter-over-quarter.
LTI was $17.6 million which is 11% lower than the prior quarter.
This decline was driven primarily by market moves.
Many of our LTI instruments get re-marked each quarter.
Our full year 2015 estimate for LTI expense is in the $75 million to $78 million range.
As a result of these declines our total comp to revenue ratio which we follow each quarter was 37.8% compared to 40.8% in the second quarter.
Now as we look forward I would expect both the fourth quarter and the year in total to have a total comp to revenue ratio in the low 40%s and that's consistent with the guidance that we've given previously.
Below the line and not shown on this page we had a few items that are substantially changed from the second quarter and I'll walk through them quickly.
First investment losses totaled $7.2 million which reflects losses incurred in the seed (15:13) book.
Second the other income line was positive this quarter for $1.2 million and that compares to a negative $2.2 million in the prior quarter.
As you may recall the prior quarter included a currency loss related to the Kapstream transaction.
Now on slide 10 our balance sheet.
Cash balance decreased by $7 million at the end of the third quarter.
This reflects the net impact of our debt transactions and also an increased level of share repurchases.
As you can see we have reduced our debt on the balance sheet by issuing $300 million in senior notes which mature in 2025 and subsequently retiring the $345 million of 2017 senior notes on August 30.
We did that with proceeds from the new issuance along with cash on hand.
With these combined transactions we've accomplished some real positives on the balance sheet.
We successfully extended the firm's debt maturity.
We've improved our leverage ratios substantially as was reflected in our ratings upgrade by S&amp;P this quarter and we reduced our annual interest expense by $8 million.
Going forward you would see the quarterly interest expense be about $5 million per quarter.
So as a result of the early retirement of the 17s the P&amp;L for the quarter was hit with a one-time non-operating charge of approximately $0.12 per share.
That reflects the make whole-call premium for the 2017s that we retired.
I will note that even taking this premium into consideration the net present value of the transaction is significantly positive because of the interest savings.
Now I'll turn to the special topics section.
We have two special topics both related to accounting and presentation of financials and I'm going to walk you through those separately.
Start on slide 12.
See our pie charts here; it's been some time since we updated how we report our asset groupings.
These pies are not typically included in our standard verbal presentation but they are included in the appendix each quarter and so are presented for your information.
You may recall that we previously have reported our assets in three buckets which don't overlap: international institutional and retail intermediary.
We've replaced that view with two separate cuts.
One is a cut by client domicile and the second is a view by channel across the globe.
These two pie charts will be included in the appendix going forward.
First you see the geographic split as Dick mentioned earlier 20% of our assets are held by clients outside the U.S.
today.
The second pie is split by channel and we've added a new category label here which we're calling self-directed.
Included in the self-directed bucket is our legacy Janus direct channel; the fund supermarket such as Fidelity and Schwab and also VelocityShares ETNs.
Many of you ask us questions each quarter about these various channel assets and hopefully this new grouping does provide some more transparency.
The second slide of pie here in the dark blue is those funds we sell through financial intermediaries to end investors all over the world.
Our distribution strategies in this channel are focused on getting platform placement and providing great client service to our partners until we're including in this category the wire houses RIAs banking networks DC platforms.
Third we have the traditional institution segment.
In our past breakout in institutional only included the U.S.
business but our new split includes the assets that we manage for overseas institutional clients as well.
You can see that we have approximately one-third of our assets being managed for institutional clients.
And I'll repeat for clarification our categorization puts DC platform assets in intermediary not in institutional.
If you want a more detailed breakdown of these buckets we've put it on appendix page 17.
And now finally turning to the last page of the presentation this quarter will see for the first time the impact of our acquisition of Kapstream.
We've gotten a lot of questions about this specific to modeling the impact to our P&amp;L and to our balance sheet.
We've broken this out in a little bit more detail.
I hope that this gives you enough guidance to successfully forecast and model these assets revenue and balance sheet impacts going forward.
However we're not going to break out the Kapstream financials in the future.
In fact I'll note that the business has already been integrated functionally in many ways with our Newport Beach-based global macro business.
So I'll highlight a few figures on this page.
The column on the right shows the impact of the Kapstream acquisition to our consolidated financials which is the column on the left.
We own 51% of Kapstream Australia which remains a distinct legal entity.
The P&amp;L reflects a fully consolidated i.e.
100% view of the business.
Kapstream Australia 100% contributed $2.1 million in operating income this quarter.
This impact is actually net of an intangibles asset amortization charge at the parent company which is $0.6 million this quarter.
That charge is going to vary based on changes in the Aussie dollar/U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
As you can see the business on a standalone basis has a very healthy margin $2.7 million of EBITDA on $4.9 million of revenue.
The 49% we don't own is deducted through the non-controlling interest line below the operating income.
On the balance sheet we're also consolidating 100% of the entity.
Kapstream has $7.8 million in cash and investments and the bulk of the remainder is in intangible assets and goodwill.
Kapstream has no debt with the exception of compensation-related liabilities which accrue and also a deferred income tax liability which is approximately $30 million.
The transaction also included a small performance-based earn-out of about $6 million that's U.S.
dollars selling shareholder Fidante and that is reflected in the other liability category.
With that I'll turn it over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conduct our question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
You stole a little bit of my thunder but first INTECH 2015 has been a really good year.
The track records look good to great maybe even understated by the way you report them.
You made a number of changes a couple years ago and it seems to be having a very positive impact on performance and the Managed Vol series for retail is awesome.
But sales stink.
What is holding INTECH back? How are you addressing it? And then given their institutional focus are there issues that keep INTECH unattractive to institutional investors almost regardless of performance? Thanks Ken.
Dick here.
Yeah.
INTECH's investment performance their leadership their culture it's all good.
And I think it's a fair and reasonable question to say given that why aren't the flows better? The issue I think is something we highlighted and tried to be very forthcoming about was it one or two quarters ago when we did the...
About a year ago.
About a year ago I'm being told where we did the special section on INTECH.
Their U.S.
business continues to be under some pressure which it can often not even be related to investment performance where some of the big institutions that had previously hired them take a look at their asset allocation and move to a barbelled portfolio with a lot of passive and some very active pieces.
They have continued to face very competitive circumstances in the U.S.
market as we highlighted in that previous breakout and as remains true today.
The other side of their business on the institutional side is their non-U.S.
where they've been growing consistently.
They continue to grow and that's positive.
So that's really the bulk of the results and the financial impact.
The other thing is they've done very exciting new product development.
You mentioned that their retail effort in Managed Vol has been very well performing and appears to be off to a great start.
We certainly agree with that assessment.
We're really excited about the long-term future for that business but it's probably going to be a slow accumulation of success as we look forward if they continue to do what we expect them to do.
There is something a little bit non-intuitive about the mathematical approach to managing money which makes it a little bit of a tougher sell and they don't have a huge retail following or name based on their history and so this is something that is going to take some time.
The good news is I think our retail sales force is terrific.
I think you can see that they're doing a very fine job across a lot of the rest of our business and they're excited about having the intake Managed Vol in their hands.
And so we're optimistic about its future but we acknowledge it's going to take some time to build.
I hope that's a good answer to your question.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And secondly Japanese postal system changing asset allocation.
What are the opportunities you see for Janus in this evolution? Obviously some of it's made the press but I was thinking more longer-term.
And then does Janus take steps to improve its position? And what are the assets under management that Janus can realistically hope to compete for? Thanks.
Actually it was GPIF in Japan who made the award which was announced in the press although the size hasn't been announced.
That'll be in our flows next quarter but we're deferring comments specifically on that out of respect for that client.
What can we expect going forward in Japan? I don't think we have a great way to predict that that's a lot better than you have.
We have seen significant success out of Japan in recent years including significant positives in this quarter.
The number from Japan in the third quarter of 2015 was $900 million contributed to net flows.
So it continues to be a positive story for us.
We have opportunities there in the retail side working with the Dai-ichi Life affiliate DIAM and we have opportunities on the institutional side and those things are a result of good work by our team but also a little hard to quantify but materially the arm around our shoulders that our friends at Dai-ichi Life have placed on us through our relationship and so that's a positive contributor to our reputation to our brand presence to the familiarity and comfort with Janus in Japan and so that's been a wonderful thing for us.
You know projecting the future is not something we try to do on calls like this very much and it's pretty hard to do.
The truth is it's not because we're refusing to do it it's just pretty hard to talk about it.
But you can see now we have a pretty good operating history including this recent quarter and certainly we think we can continue to grow and improve that success over time if we do our job well.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Credit Suisse Craig Siegenthaler.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First I just want to hit on the total comp ratio.
Why is the total comp ratio tracking so low versus the original guidance you started giving us about a year ago? Sure Craig that's really a phenomenon that's specific to this quarter.
As I noted we had a couple of expense items that were not tied to any revenue.
So when that happens profit is lower as a percent of revenue and since our variable comp is driven off of profit that goes through this quarter's accruals for our bonus pools.
Got it.
The original guidance was low to mid-40s right? And it's tracking right now in the low 40s.
So it is even low if you back out the third quarter and look at the first two quarters.
So it is lower than the original guidance.
Yes.
And there's some movement depending on where assets come out and where sales come out.
At the beginning of the year we didn't know and gave a big range because commissions tend to be front ended and that goes through that total comp ratio.
I think we're on the lower end but that's due to a combination of overall market lift and general profitability.
Got it.
So just a follow-up here on asset allocation can you update us on the product launch and capital raising efforts of Myron and Ashwin? Sure.
I'll take that one.
Myron and Ash have done some terrific research development work to bring a product to set and a set of tools really to life for us here in the last four to six months they've been able to come out.
And during that relatively brief period of time Myron has been an incredible engine.
He travels the world relentlessly and there's always an endless number of folks who'd like to meet and learn from him.
And in that process he's spreading the word about what they're building here.
But it's very early days and it's going to take some time for that to grow to be something that's significant.
We've very optimistic about the work they've done and we believe strongly that the adaptive global allocation approach is an important new contributor to sort of leading-edge thinking in asset allocation.
But it's not just going to appear magically out of thin air.
It's going to take some time and effort to take this new product and build it into the marketplace.
Thank you.
And next we'll take Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everybody.
Question for you guys on Index just a follow-up to Kenneth's question earlier.
The dynamic you described about U.S.
versus non-U.S.
is pretty helpful.
Any way to size the amount of business that is still kind of in the U.S.
more of a legacy block that could be at risk of further being squeezed to help us better understand what the net opportunity for that business could be? It's about 80% U.S.
and 20% non-U.S.
at the moment.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on performance fees fourth quarter tends to be I think seasonally higher for you guys given a lock for some of the INTECH-related strategies.
Any sense I guess given decent performance for them this year how fourth quarter kind of some of the separate account performance fees could look like? Sure.
I think you've keyed in on the key element right which is that they've had really great performance and a lot of their annual performance fees do hit in the fourth quarter.
Looking over past history the fourth quarter tends to be about somewhere between a half to three-quarters of the total separate account performance fees and so I know that's a big range.
It really – a lot of it is driven by how the fourth quarter goes but hopefully that gives you some guidance.
Got it.
And is it all based on relative investment performance versus the benchmark? Yes.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And following from Bank of America Merrill Lynch we have Michael Carrier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks a lot.
Given the new disclosure you've given on the distribution side by channel I just want to get a sense when you think about the three segments that you guys are looking at now and particularly just given the performance in some of the product launches and the acquisitions that you've made can you kind of give us a sense where you see the growth outlook in each of those channels? Meaning if there's more opportunity even less what you've been doing on the distribution side to kind of position in each of those channels.
Sure.
I think it's clear that we're continuing to see strong results from our intermediary channel led by our advisory group.
Year-to-date intermediary channels posted about $1.6 billion of net inflows and that's a very good mark.
I think that team is performing very well.
And the other thing which we have tried to highlight a lot is our non-U.S.
business has been a consistent and strong grower and that includes both institutional where we have really good bellwether accounts in the U.K.
in Europe in the Nordics in Japan in Asia X-Japan and Australia.
And it includes retail where we're seeing some positive flows out of places like Taiwan and Hong Kong and Paris and even Zurich.
So it's pretty broad success and as we mentioned it's nine quarters in a row of net inflows in the non-U.S.
businesses in the aggregate.
So that's another area where we continue to see a lot of forward progress.
I'll just add onto that.
I don't think I would characterize any of the three channels as having superior growth prospects to another.
I think they each have pockets of real strength in them.
Institutional as Dick just said has really strong momentum overseas.
And the self-directed channel a lot of that is driven by performance and we also have our ETNs in that bucket and those are all high potential areas for us.
So really all three of them have different characteristics and different drivers but good growth prospects.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just as a follow-up just on the capital deployment both on the debt side the buybacks you guys have been active and then on the deal side.
When you look at valuations on deals out there kind of the current set of or lineup of products that you have versus the cash generation and the pickup and buybacks this quarter.
When you look over the next maybe 12 months or so where are the priorities now given kind of the layout? Well that's always a tricky question to answer in a really forthright manner.
I guess what I can say is that we have a lot more flexibility given our balance sheet restructuring that we successfully completed this quarter to both pursue strategic options and to return capital to shareholders.
So I don't think it's an either/or choice for us.
I think we're just always looking at everything that's out there.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks.
And we'll take Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess on the expense side Jennifer if you could give us a sense of the budgeting process for next year? And how you're thinking about it at this point? And maybe compare it to last year? And what the deltas might be from going into next year versus this year in terms of growth? That's an excellent question and it's extremely timely.
We are going through the budgeting process for next year.
And as you'll recall in 2015 we deliberately invested in key areas.
We increased our head count significantly.
We put in a larger marketing budget.
We focused on pockets of technology and distribution and we are pretty happy with that investment.
So I think that continuing that growth trajectory and fixed costs is not needed.
I think our year-over-year growth will be more consistent with longer term trends in the 2015 to 2016 timeframe.
So 2015 was a big period of increased investment not the start of a hockey stick trajectory if you will.
Great.
And then Dick you mentioned the $2.9 billion in lumpy redemptions and well on that one time I guess if you could just give a little bit of color on where those came from and the rationale behind some of it if you know it? Yeah sure.
It came from all the different parts of our business really.
It came from Janus Equities it came from fixed income it came from INTECH.
The biggest piece came out of the Janus Equity franchise in a very very well performing product where the client made a structural decision and reallocated despite excellent performance and that was $1.3 billion of the $2.9 billion.
And so it was broad and not a – not able to sort of be described by a single summary and not always related to any investment performance.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First maybe just a follow-up on Japan.
Any update in terms of the relationship with Dai-ichi? I guess there's been some speculation that they're sort of reconsidering or making some changes as it relates to their asset management business.
So just wondering now that it's been about three years since the investment if you could sort of give us an update on that front.
Sure.
Absolutely.
I can tell you that in direct conversations with the top management at Dai-ichi Life they continue to convey their happiness with our relationship.
They continue to convey their strong ongoing support and so we have no reason to understand from our communications with them that they have any desire much less intention to make any changes in the relationship.
It's also true though that their affiliate DIAM in Tokyo with whom we've done a lot of business is 50% owned by Mizuho.
And Mizuho is and has been announced that Mizuho is restructuring their approach to asset management in trying to bring their three different asset management pieces including DIAM under a common framework and they're doing that in cooperation with Dai-ichi.
And so that's change to one of our key partners in Japan.
There's always some risk in change but of course there's always great opportunity in change also and we're focused on taking the opportunity side of that trade and hopefully with a bigger stronger DIAM partner in Tokyo we'll do even more.
But it's fair to say there is some uncertainty at this early stage in that kind of a restructuring over there.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then second now that it's been a year or so since bringing on Bill Gross.
Just wondering if you could maybe make some comments in terms of how you might characterize the progress that you've made in terms of folding him in and sort of leveraging his franchise? Sure.
I mean first and foremost what an honor to have Bill Gross on the team.
He's the best in the fixed income business for our lifetimes and it's been a real thrill to have him on the team.
He's had a gigantic brand effect I think over the whole firm much larger than his assets or even the fixed income assets.
He's caused a lot of the world to stop and look at recognize the name and the brand of Janus.
And the good news is when folks do that and they take an actual hard look at what we are here they find an awful lot to like.
And so I think that he's contributed very significantly to the brand strength and position across the whole franchise.
He's building something with a new track record in his unconstrained bond fund and in a couple of other institutional relationships and that we hope and believe will continue over time because as I said he's just a class by himself as a fixed income manager.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And from Citi we have Bill Katz.
Please go ahead sir.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
So it just seems like Kapstream and Velocity have a lot of momentum to them.
Could you talk a little bit about what the early returns are in terms of what you're seeing from retail or institutional distribution partners? And where you might see maybe geographically or by product the greatest growth opportunity? That's a complicated question.
Let me do my best.
Let's talk about VelocityShares first.
The big piece of their existing business right now is ETNs Exchange Traded Notes.
And those are tools largely for professional investors which are not designed for sort of buy and hold investors.
So the majority of our distribution doesn't really distribute those.
Those are done by the VelocityShares team and they're a little bit of a different business from our traditional business.
They also have a small ETF business that we're optimistic that we can develop and grow over time.
We've talked about that before and we still intend to do that.
Kapstream their core franchise is really built around delivering cash plus 200 basis points to 400 basis points.
We think there's a huge appetite for that kind of an approach to fixed income investing and so we're optimistic that over time we can help them expand and accelerate their growth not only – not so much in Australia where I think they have things pretty darn well in hand by themselves but outside of Australia in the U.S.
in Europe and in Asia and Tokyo we're hopeful that we can take their excellence and help them grow in this very important sort of cash-plus approach to fixed income investing.
So it's pretty early days and so I can't give you a lot of specifics.
We'll report as it rolls but I'll tell you that they're terrific.
We're thrilled to have them on the team.
They're good people good investors.
They have a great footprint in a strong market in Australia and we're optimistic we can roll that forward in other jurisdictions over time.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Then just maybe more of a tactical question.
I appreciate the new disclosure.
It's actually very helpful to understand the breadth of the business.
Can you – you gave us I think $1.6 billion of flows into your intermediary channel year to date.
Could you break out what you're seeing year to date in the other two channels? And then could you actually provide what you did in the non-U.S.
this quarter? Okay.
You're asking for specific numbers.
So I'm going to give you to Jennifer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
I do – I can give you the non-U.S.
because I have that right in front of me.
We had $500 million into Janus Equity $500 million into INTECH and $600 million into fixed income.
So as I said earlier in the main presentation there were positive inflows across all three of the disciplines this quarter in non-U.S.
I don't have the – correction.
I just have gotten the flows by our channels year to date.
So $1.6 billion into intermediary $2.6 billion negative outflows in institutional this is again year to date the first three quarters.
And $0.9 billion or $900 million negative net in self-directed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take Robert Lee from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Most of my questions were asked but I just wanted to follow up on some of the mandate losses.
I know you gave some color there but I'm just curious as kind of the nature of those.
Were those kind of more traditional institutional separate accounts or they're kind of platform losses where – or sub-advised accounts? It was both types of accounts.
Again it's really hard to summarize because they're each a different situation with a different story.
So I don't mean to give you a bad answer but certainly it was both traditional institutional kind of business and also some platform.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up kind of bigger picture question and I guess in a way Jennifer maybe kind of answered it.
But you went through this past year a step-up in your investment in personnel and resources and as you look ahead do you – while maybe the pace of investment will slow do you feel like you have the right or enough of the right distribution resources particularly maybe in the U.S.
to really leverage your improved performance as much as you'd like to? Or do you feel like that's one area you have to continue to invest and then maybe specifically which distribution channels do you feel like you need to do the most work on? Well I think that's a great question.
As Jennifer indicated earlier we're right in the middle of our budget planning process for next year and I think that's the sharpest thorniest question that we're addressing.
As Jennifer indicated we invested significantly in this past year; that involved a significant bump up in expense growth.
That's not something that we intend to continue at that rate on a go forward basis so like all budget processes ours includes some very hard choices.
We think we have some great opportunities based on a lot of hard work and success in some of our particularly U.S.
retail distribution some of our non-U.S.
We've already invested significantly in our institutional distribution in the U.S.
So we've got to ask ourselves that thorny question and I won't front run the answer.
I apologize but we've got a process working here and at the end of that process we'll be able to report back more fully.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And we'll take Michael Cyprys from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just a question on the non-U.S.
build-out.
Certainly some nice flows year-to-date coming from outside the U.S.
Just curious if you could talk about some of the priorities in your international build-out just in terms of what's next on your to do list and what sort of gaps are you looking to fill there.
Well the world is a big place and so you've always got gaps.
You're always feeling badly about your lack of production in one place or another while you may feel good about it in other regions.
So it's always possible to point to things in areas where you wish you were doing better.
One of my favorites is to point at how big a market Canada is and how little business we're able do there as a whole that I struggle with feeling accountable for that.
But you know we also can't do everything everywhere and if we tried we wouldn't do anything very well.
So we're a reasonably small company.
We have a finite set of resources and we have to keep our focus in order to succeed.
We've made some significant expansions and investments in recent years.
We've opened up retail in Taiwan with a big effort.
We've added some new people and refocused on some markets in Europe.
And so we have a lot of things that have been investments.
Obviously we've made significant investment in Australia.
So we've got a lot of chips that we've placed out on the table.
And for us I think the priority is to make sure those go well and pay us back rather than putting a ton more chips out on the table at this time.
Great.
Then just on the intermediary side as you're targeting the wirehouses could you talk about some of the opportunity set there that you see in terms of growing your market share? And also perhaps using some of the big data share by your wirehouse partners perhaps to better target and identify specific advisors that might be better long-term fit to your products? Yeah.
Taking your second part of your question first look we've invested pretty heavily around here based on our scale of investing in taking in better information and making our sales efforts with the wirehouses and intermediary folks better informed and better tracked and measured.
And that's been a huge effort for us.
We see that as essential to success essential to making good resource decisions and we think it's working very well.
Drew Elder and the team in that part of the business I think are avid consumers of that data and we're rightfully demanding that we make those investments.
So that's working and we have better information today about where we're succeeding and where we're not and that helps us guide our efforts.
More broadly on where do we see the opportunities I think that has been sort of the main part of what we tried to communicate to you.
We think that we have really strong franchises in fixed income in equities and we're trying to build them with INTECH and their Managed Vol.
We're trying to build that out.
Perkins has been a powerful player in value and small and mid for a long time.
So thinking about it on a product suite basis a lot of our products that we talk about throughout this call represent the right answer to your question.
In terms of other ways of thinking about it I don't think I have great information for you.
I think we already have a pretty good footprint in most of the retail and intermediary places and we just have to work on the core bedrock principles of delivering excellent investment performance and excellent relationships.
And that's the key to winning in those places.
So I don't know that I have better answer for you than that.
Great.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we have no further time for questions and we would like to turn the conference back over to Dick Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Thanks everybody for your time today on Hillary Clinton and Benghazi day.
We really do appreciate your taking the time to get to know us better.
Look we view the $3.3 billion in outflows as disappointing but we're really encouraged by the work we're doing on the things we do control.
We're encouraged by our investment performance.
We're encouraged by the work that our distribution teams are doing and we don't see this quarter as invalidating or knocking us too far off course in those strong trends moving forward.
So we look forward to talking to you in future quarters.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.