Good morning.
My name is Elizabeth and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factors section of the Company's most recent Form 10-K and other more recent filings made with the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
As in prior calls I’ll start with an overview of summary from my perspective.
Our CFO Jennifer McPeek will take you through the results with some more specificity.
We’ll turn to a couple of topics which have been raised by folks over the past quarter that we think and hope you’ll find interesting and informative.
And finally we’ll turn to your questions.
So looking back on 2015 from my perspective the Janus story has three pieces.
Strengthening investment performance is clearly the first significant accomplishment of the year.
We continue to improve the net flows and in-performance fees which is the second element I’d call your attention to.
And third we continue to make progress on our strategic initiatives.
So let’s look at the first element the investment performance.
2015 was no doubt a volatile year across global markets.
However we are encouraged that we took those opportunities to maintain strong investment performance across our firm on the whole.
At the end of the year 84% of our complex-wide assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 74% on a three-year basis.
This is the strongest collective one-year performance in our firm in more than seven years.
Now let’s break the strong equity performance down into the various investment platforms.
Janus equity platform first and foremost performance in this franchise continued to be very strong.
84% of the assets were in the top two quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 73% on a three-year basis.
Turning to Janus fixed income.
The fixed income performance saw the biggest year-over-year improvement with its one-year number.
82% of the assets were in the top two quartiles compared to 2% this time last year.
As you all know our fundamental fixed income process is a credit based process that runs fairly conservatively and a relatively modest number of basis points around the index can cause the relative rankings to shift rather dramatically.
And you are seeing some of that to the positive in this change.
Three-year performance continues to be extremely strong with 100% of assets in the top two quartiles relative to peers and that’s obviously a more important mark.
Our fundamental fixed income franchise continues to be strong with excellent relative total returns strong risk-adjusted performance and we are delivering on our promise of good downside protection.
Clearly we’ve had a leadership change in that business and I will address that a bit more a little bit later on.
Turning to mathematical equity 74% of our relative return strategies were beating their respective benchmarks on a one-year basis net of fees which compares to 15% a year ago.
So we are seeing some good improvement at INTECH.
I think as you would expect with relative volatility across the markets higher over the last year that taken advantage of those opportunities.
As I mentioned last quarter INTECH has a new area of development with their absolute return strategies.
And in the face of the volatile markets 100% of these strategies were ahead of their benchmarks during the year net of fees.
Turning to Perkins as we know Perkins has been through some challenging times but on a one-year basis 95% of Perkins’ assets ranked in the top two quartiles relative to peers.
Additionally on a one-year basis Perkins’ largest strategies the mid-cap and the small cap value strategies beat their respective benchmarks by 98 bps and 481 bps respectively.
So I think the takeaway from investment performance is that during the volatile year an active manager such as ourselves has an opportunity to differentiate itself on an absolute basis and on a risk-adjusted basis and we took good advantage of those opportunities I think.
We’re seeing a continuation of strength in our Janus equity franchise in our fixed income performance and we’re seeing improvements at Perkins and at INTECH.
Turning to the second element I highlighted above flows and performance fees.
Company net flows were $2.6 billion out compared to $4.9 billion out a year-ago.
That’s a meaningful improvement obviously that’s not a destination we intend to get to significant net inflows but we’re continuing to make progress on the journey.
In particular I call attention to our fundamental equity franchise which of course is our Janus platform and our Perkins platform combined.
In 2015 the fundamental equity business experienced net outflows of $1.5 billion compared to net outflows of $7.6 billion in 2014.
This is a very significant year-on-year improvement for us.
And a big part of that improvement was driven by a 34% increase in gross sales.
So we were taking market share and driving an increase in gross sales that’s good news from our perspective.
In addition to better net flows as a result of the much improved investment performance we’ve also seen significant improvement in negative mutual funds performance fees which in 2015 were minus 29 compared to minus 60 in 2014 and minus 88 in 2013 so that continues to improve.
And again that’s a journey we’re not at a destination.
We hope and intend to make those positive numbers over time rather than negative numbers.
But that’s very significant progress again year-over-year minus 60 turn to minus 29.
Last piece of the story is progress on our strategic initiatives.
As we’ve discussed in prior calls we’ve called our strategy Intelligent Diversification.
The pillars of that strategy have rested on expanding our international distribution and continuing to build diversity through growth of our fixed income business.
I think we’ve made very strong progress in both areas during 2015.
On our international business I’m proud to say that after a strong fourth quarter we had a total of $17.2 billion of gross sales and $6.6 billion of net inflows during the year which was an organic growth rate of 20% that’s the strongest year we’ve had for our non-U.S.
businesses combined in the firm’s history.
The strong growth was fueled by tremendous work by our international sales teams.
And of course we have to say thank you and respect the contribution of our good partner Dai-ichi Life and their affiliate DIAM to our success.
Looking at gross sales in Japan we had $6.3 billion of gross sales during the year.
Additionally in Europe we had $5.5 billion of gross sales.
Turning to our fixed income business our fixed income business posted its seventh consecutive year of positive net flows growing at an organic rate of 9% in 2015.
We also announced in July our acquisition Kapstream which reinforces our efforts to build a world-class global macro fixed income business.
Kapstream has a terrific Australian business driven by strong organic growth and we hope that and intend that continues.
We also hope to add to that by partnering with Bill Gross and the rest of our global macro team and our international distribution to build success we hope in time around the world.
Before moving on I also want to turn to the leadership change we are having in our fundamental fixed income business.
In December Gibson Smith Chief Investment Officer of our fundamental fixed income business announced that he will be leaving Janus at the end of March.
In connection with the news we announced a series of promotions of team members to fill the various roles and step up in light of Gibson’s decisions.
We are fortunate to have a terrific team in our fundamental fixed income business built over long years of working together and we are confident that they can continue to deliver in the same philosophy and process as has been demonstrated to be excellent in our fundamental fixed income business.
We recognized that with the change like this a lot of clients will take a hard look at what we are doing in this area and asses their relationship with us.
It’s far too early to speculate on the impact that this might have on our business.
But at this very early date client response has been pretty good and we are pleased with the start to the succession process.
I have really strong confidence in the continuing team and I know that we can continue to do a good job for those clients so and long-term optimistic but again at this early date it’s a little bit too early to give you a real assessment of any short-term impact of that leadership change.
Moving on another important element of our strategy has been to continue to invest in our distribution presence in the U.S.
In 2015 we saw some encouraging market share gains that I think are validating this part of our strategy.
The U.S intermediary channels to organic growth in our Janus equity mutual funds of 1.2% during the year which compares to an organic loss for the industry of 2.6% according to Simfund.
Similarly our fixed income mutual funds saw organic growth of 1% during the year which compares to a minus 1.6 for active fixed income strategies across the U.S mutual fund industry according to Simfund.
So we are gaining market share and I’m proud of the good momentum we are building in these channels.
Finally as part of our strategic execution we have been focusing on product development in order to ensure that we are able to meet our clients’ future needs.
In June we announced the launch of our adaptive global allocation fund developed and led by Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar with Enrique Chang our CIO of Equities and Asset Allocation.
And we’re excited about the long-term future that that new products has the potential to bring.
In November we also announced that we had a registration statement filed with the SEC for two ETFs which draw on the expertise of our fundamental small and mid-cap management teams and are further steps down the road to build on our acquisition of the VelocityShares business and build out in the ETFs space.
We’re excited about the opportunities represented by these steps although we recognized that with all new products it’s a long multi-year journey before they can deliver very significant financial returns that will be noticeable across the whole group.
With that let me turn to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
So I’m going to begin on Page 6 of the presentation with a summary of our financial results for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Average AUM was down slightly less than 1% compared to the third quarter.
The fourth quarter revenue was $267.8 million that’s a 2% decline from the third quarter and for the year revenue was up 13% compared to 2014.
Operating income was $80.8 million that’s a 3% decrease from the third quarter and 11% increase year-over-year.
Earnings per share were $0.25 that compares to $0.22 in the prior quarter.
Flipping to Page 7 this is our standard investment performance disclosure.
Dick went into this in some detail in his opening remarks.
So I won’t walk to anymore detail at this time.
But instead flip to Slide 8.
Slide 8 is our flows presentation with a five quarter trailing deals.
The fourth quarter total company net outflows were $0.6 billion compared to $3.3 billion of outflows in the prior quarter.
This change included 15% improvement in gross redemption.
On the right side of the page we break it down by advisor.
In fundamental equity outflows were flat the prior quarter at $1.5 billion out.
It was a decline in both gross sales and gross redemptions.
Of the net outflow $800 million was from Janus Equities and $700 million was in our Perkins value strategies.
Mathematical outflows were $1.5 billion which compares to $1.6 billion in the third quarter.
And finally fixed income net inflows were $2.4 billion that $2.4 billion in inflows and that includes the funding out of Japan which I mentioned in last quarter’s call.
Although there has been some questions about this from the analyst community we will not be disclosing the exact funding amount per our agreement with the client.
Turning next to Page 9 we go into the financials here the revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue decreased 2% over the prior quarter that was largely due to lower average AUM as well as a slight decline in management fee rate.
Our weighted average management fee for the current quarter was 47.0 basis points and that compares to 47.7 basis points last quarter.
Performance fees break into mutual fund and private account performance fees.
On the mutual funds we had negative $9.6 million in performance fees for the quarter.
It compares to negative $3.9 million last quarter.
The calculation you’ll recall is based on a rolling three-year investment performance period and while our fourth quarter performance was largely good the fourth quarter of 2012 investment performance which rolled off the calculation was even better.
Private account performance fees were $7.7 million in the quarter which compares to $2.7 million in the third quarter typically the fourth quarter is our highest private account performance fee quarter as roughly 40% of the assets with performance fees have their annual fee determined and paid in the fourth quarter.
Next to Slide 10 a breakdown of our operating expenses.
Total operating expenses decreased $3.4 million or 2% compared to the prior quarter.
You may recall that last quarter’s G&amp;A was elevated by some one-time items and as expected it has decreased by $2.7 million.
LTI was $19.3 million and this is 10% quarter-over-quarter increase.
Looking forward to 2016 our full year estimate for LTI expense is $70 million to $75 million range.
This assumes a flat market but we will update that in future quarterly earnings calls.
Total comp to revenue ratio for the fourth quarter was 38.6%.
Our total comp to revenue ratio includes both compensation and benefits line as well as our LTI line.
For the full year of 2015 our total comp to revenue ratio was 39.9%.
I’ll discuss the 2016 outlook for this metric and other operating expenses that towards the end of our presentation in the special topics section.
Moving to Slide 11 I’ll walk through our balance sheet activities from the past year.
Cash and cash equivalents decreased $88 million we had strong cash flow from operations and we use the cash flow to reduce our debt to acquire majority stake in Kapstream and to return capital to shareholders.
Our total debt declined by $44 million that reflects a third quarter transaction whereby we issued $300 million in 2025 senior notes and subsequently retired our 2017 senior notes.
In addition we returned approximately 57% of our 2015 cash flows from operations to shareholders.
We did this through $92 million in share repurchases and $65 million in dividends.
Now let’s turn to the special topics section.
Last quarter we revised our bucketing of assets by channel to present a global view and one that's consistent with peers in the industry.
Many of you have asked to look at our history through that lens.
And so on Page 13 we present flow trends over the last four years in those channel buckets.
I will just walk down the three channels on the right side of the page.
First at the top we show our intermediary channel.
This channel consists of our domestic advisory channel variable insurance defined contribution along with mutual funds sold in the non-U.S.
business through financial institution distribution partners.
Over the last two years we've obviously seen some significant improvement in flows in this channel.
And in fact in 2015 the flows turned positive.
A key factor in this improvement has been better investment performance in Janus equity funds which have a large percentage of the assets in this channel.
In the early years that we show here 2012 and 2013 a particular headwind was experienced in Perkins but we're starting to see improvements in their strategies.
Second is our institutional channel.
Our institutional channel as we are presenting at here is not just U.S.
institutional; it's a global view of all of our institutional clients.
And you can see that on net there has been improvement from 2012 and 2013 but we still have some strong outflow headwinds in the U.S.
I will break it down a little bit for 2015.
We had international institutional inflows of $4.8 billion offset by domestic outflows in institutional of $6.8 billion.
And finally what we are calling our self-directed channel includes both our retail-direct Janus-direct channel as well as funds pulled through the fund super market.
As of December 31 2015 we had 16 funds on the Schwab and Fidelity Select Lists.
And I think you see that there has been consistent improvement in flows in that channel as well which corresponds with performance.
And finally I will close with some outlook on our 2016 expenses.
As we look forward we are planning to invest further in our intermediary distribution channel.
We are looking for a particular focus in U.S.
advisory where we see some real opportunities to grow market share.
We're growing our wholesaler force in a moderate but really focused way.
And we are also increasing marketing spend around some of our new solutions capabilities and product offerings.
We also have to look very closely and be willing to spend resources around competitive salary needs regulatory requirements and risks.
So we're not cutting corners there.
When we put all that together what does it really mean for next year? Well we’re going to have some modest headcount increases probably about 15 to 20 heads net – again predominantly in distribution roles.
As a result of these ads and some raises we currently have an outlook that we'll see some higher comp-to-revenue ratios than we had in 2015 in the low 40s.
That will range a little bit depending on what happens with market.
We are also expecting that you'll see about 10% increase in marketing spend that’s in the marketing and advertising line.
Obviously these are strategic needs for us and we’re making these investments with a view to the long-term.
If conditions change dramatically we always have the flexibility to moderate our spend to flex it.
But I do want to emphasize that we have put in place a lot things that makes us a lot more flexible to response market moves and to maintain our stability and commitment to investments.
We have a variable bonus pool that flexes with the bottom line we have reduced our leverage significantly we only have about $15 million in interest expense per year now.
And so we are not going to need to manage the margins we can remain committed to investments.
With that I’ll concluded our prepared remarks and turn it over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First maybe just a follow-up on the expense discussion it sounds like you remain committed to product development and building out distribution and service capabilities with – what sort of an eye to long-term growth prospects.
I guess first what areas might you’d be able to cut back on to partially offset some of that spending and then more broadly just given ongoing market volatility is there a point where you might start to maybe slow some of that – some of those strategic initiatives in light of tougher revenue headwinds? Thanks for the question Michael it’s Jennifer McPeek.
I’ll take the first one around areas that we might find cuts.
So there’s not a specific product area or distribution channel that we are cutting back and significantly it’s more a question of – holding the line in some areas.
We’ve also looked across our discretionary spend and found lots of small areas to cut which add up to something significant.
So in our prepared remarks I talked about areas that were increasing to help you looking forward I actually expect to see a slight pullback in the G&amp;A line and that’s really a combined effect of a lot of smaller cuts that are just being prudent in light of really volatile markets.
And let me take your second question as to whether there is a point at which we re-examined plans and change plans in light of new market and business conditions.
Of course there is we look at this thing on an active basis.
So we make business decisions on a run rate in real-time.
I think Jennifer was absolutely right to point out that the decisions that we are making to invest are not casual.
And they are intended to be strategic investments that are important to our firm.
So we wouldn’t back off lightly.
That said if the market volatility really turns significantly more negative and looks to be a sustained problem we'll go back and take a look at everything we're doing and make new decisions as the business conditions would dictate.
At the moment we don't see that reality in the marketplace.
But we are aware in particular that Myron and Ash with their tail risk analysis have fled that there is rising distress in the financials globally.
And that is a sign that this downturn could be more troublesome than any of us would like.
We monitor that closely and we’ll have a view as time progresses as to how serious we expect these market turns to be.
And at an appropriate point we would of course go back and re-examine our decisions.
Got it.
That’s helpful and then maybe in terms of the follow-up you remain active on the buyback front but just wondering how you're thinking about sort of the sustainability of the pace of the buyback just given sort of market volatility and potential impact on your cash flows? Well I think you've keyed in on the right metric Michael which is our cash flow generation and cash flow from operations.
We are still pretty robust I mean our assets started the year at the highest level they've been since I got here.
So while we have seen some decline we are able to manage our return to capital in response to changes in cash flow generation.
And we tried to be tactical in managing that so it's not something you can predict with great certainty quarter-to-quarter.
But we have a lot of levers we can pull to react to changes in cash flow and frankly that's one of the reasons that we like share repurchases is they give us that flexibility.
Got it okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
First on regulation the SEC is proposing new rules on leverage and inverse ETFs.
How would the proposals impact velocity shares if the rules go through is written? If at all? Thanks Ken.
I don't know precisely how it might affect VelocityShares.
I’m not aware that it affects their existing business at all in their ETNs.
And obviously we are working with them to build outs and ETFs which strictly speaking are not targeted areas we would identify as the center of that regulatory push.
We may have other products that we have to do careful analysis around Bill Gross’ unconstrained bond fund could potentially see some change in investment behavior depending on how those final rules and regulations turn out.
And so we are aware of it we will keep an eye on it but it is not a huge focus for us at this moment.
Okay great.
And then the integration of Kapstream can you kind of flush out how it’s progressing and anything you can give us on both the product strategy globally and maybe the time horizon around such global product development? Sure thanks.
The Kapstream integration is going superbly really primarily due to the fact that we’ve been smart enough and lucky enough to get a really first class team of people coming along with the Kapstream business.
They have worked very well to integrate with Bill Gross and the global macro fixed income team in California as well as with the broader firm in our various distribution efforts in the U.S.
and around the globe.
So we’re optimistic about the start.
Its early days but the combination there gives us the strength to have a continuing excellent business in Australia which is just a wonderful market for investment management under their Kapstream as pretty much as it’s been historically.
And adding to that they can work globally and markets outside of the United States to offer really two kinds of products offer global macro platform.
The first time… Okay… The first time is Bill Gross’ cash plus 400 to 600 basis points which is a more aggressive form of unconstrained bond.
And then the traditional Kapstream had cash plus 200 or so which is a more conservative form of cash plus investing which we believe there will be a great receptivity to both of these global macro fixed income strategies.
And we believe we can achieve good client base in the U.S.
in Europe and hopefully in other places around Asia to add to Kapstream’s strength in Australia.
Any timing on when the European and U.S.
versions of the Kapstream products launch and concert to grow? We’re obviously working on these ideas.
But I can’t give you a specific timing at this time.
Okay okay.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Appreciate you taking the questions.
I just want to come back to the mix of the business.
What might be coming in versus where you seeing some attrition.
Looking at your fee rate it’s been sort of continuing to blend down back in the fourth quarter.
And the markets were up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what you’re seeing I know you have U.S.
non-U.S.
and the equity versus fixed income in light but any general terms what type of business you’re bringing in relative to the – sort of the legacy fee rate for the company? So I’ll just shortly address the fee rate question and I think you had another some underlying question around what we’re seeing in terms of flows.
The fee rate trend that you’ve seen over not just the quarter but from a more sustained period it’s really a reflection of mix.
So as we look at the underlying fee rates in all of our different product channel combinations we’re not seeing fee compression.
Yes certainly there’s a lot of macro factors out there that could push fees down over the long-term.
But what we’re really seeing is a result of mix shift.
So when we talk about trying to diversify the company it’s really a success that we’re seeing some of these growth in areas like institutional and fixed income which will take that management fee rate down but don’t take the profitability down.
It’s helpful.
Okay and just as a follow-up perhaps and thank you for the extra disclosure it is very helpful.
Within that you sort of broke out some of the institutional volumes by U.S versus non-U.S.
Could you talk a little bit about what you are hearing or seeing qualitatively and quantitatively around pipelines and decision making where you seeing the incremental demand made by geographies just try to get a sense of the forward prospects of that line item? Sure.
Thanks Bill.
I think we have been clear that in our biggest institutional business which is INTECH.
They have faced a continuing pressure on some of their U.S institutional base.
And some of their newer and more customized products outside the United States have been growing quite successfully.
Obviously the balance given that they have the very big bulk of the stock of their business already based in the U.S has resulted in some continuing negative flows.
And that pressure is – has been significant and that’s driving a lot of what you see in the institutional numbers.
Outside of that as you know we’ve had some significant successes in our fundamental fixed income in institutional space outside of the U.S.
which have added some additional positives both in the Asia and in Europe.
And so hopefully that gives you better color.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question will come from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
I guess could you quantify specifically what Dai-ichi contributed in the quarter if anything.
And then kind of thinking about demand from that subset into next year or there certain products I know Life Sciences at point in time we’ve been – the big contributor others that you're looking at that might through that channel be poised to see an increase in demand.
Sure.
As I think we’ve said in prior periods we are managing about $2.2 billion of Dai-ichi assets of their general account assets that they have given to us and that’s not new in the quarter.
In addition through their fairly DIAM we have had relationships with others in both retail and institutional Japan grow.
And the total DIAM related assets are now up to about $4.3 billion.
I think that’s the best color I can give you.
Okay.
And then I guess a follow-up on the ETF launches that are coming you highlighted.
Are these just mirroring your active strategies within the small cap and the mid-cap and just putting them in an ETF wrapper or is there anything else to that and how should we think about maybe product evolution from here after that.
Well these are rules based ETFs and the rules are developed in conjunction with the portfolio management team in our Janus platform in our small cap and mid areas and the rules capture I think a significant part of the philosophy and the bit of the process of how they pursue their active management.
But obviously they’re different in the sense that these will be rules based where there is a lot more going on in a fully active product.
We’ve had a lot of demand over time for these products in our active management.
And we’re pleased to be able to bring a sort of related version a cousin of these products to the table in a rules-based form in ETF space and we’re excited about the possibility.
Our distribution folks are wholesalers and folks who work with advisors know these products very well know the space very well.
So we’re optimistic that familiarity can give an extra boost to our start into ETFs.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jennifer maybe the first one for you.
You mentioned 70% 75% for LTI assuming flat market.
I don’t know if there’s any sensitivity if the markets are down 10% like they are beyond that.
And then on the performance fees I think you’ve mentioned in the past the first quarter is around 30% the separate accounts portion.
I just want to make sure – nothing shifting there? Okay.
Thanks for the question Michael.
The LTI range that we gave is updated as of the end of the close of markets yesterday.
So movement from here would bring that well it could move in either direction.
So there’s been significant portion of the LTI to get mark-to-market.
And so depending on what strategies that LTIs invested in which is generally at the discretion of the LTI holder.
You could see that move up and down market-to-market.
So there’s a lot of things in play there and so we can’t forecast it all that precisely.
You know if our LTI holders are risk-averse they may move out of equities.
And we don’t control that decision.
Second question you had was around the split of the performance fees and when those that timing occurs? We’re not seen any material change in that since the last time we gave you a split and a guidance.
Okay.
Thanks and then just a real quick.
Dick maybe – just from a strategic standpoint and I think when we step back.
You look at the firm’s investment performance that’s – you gotten a lot better in turning to right direction.
You guys have done a lot on the product side and on the acquisitions.
And you have some maybe industry headwinds with environment and impulsive.
But when you think about – what you kind of set out to do on transitioning the platform and the business.
How far along are you – I think the organic growth relative to the industry this year held up pretty well do you think that’s sustainable and where do you think you can take like the growth of the firm in a longer term? Thanks Michael.
I think we’re pretty far along if you want to think about it in product sense.
If you want to think about the products we’ve added and to complement and diversify our business I’m not sure that we need do a whole lot more in product space to be as developed as we need to be.
What we need to do now is work of these initiatives and make them more successful to execute better and to increase the level of success in many of the areas that we’re already doing.
And so I think there’s lots of opportunity for us to get better in these spaces.
These new spaces that we’ve targeted as well as in our existing traditional business.
And so that has to be the biggest priority for us marching forward now.
The second thing I think to emphasize just as you think about our strategy is it’s easy to talk a lot about products but the coin of the realm is relationships.
And so I think going forward we need to maintain a very strong focus on becoming an ever better relationship partner for our clients in institutional and in retail.
I think that has to be a huge priority for us going forward.
And there is lots of work you can do in infrastructure and in culture and in how you approach relationships to make sure you’re doing as good a job as a partner for your clients and we’re going to focus on getting better in those spaces.
So I would say our product development is pretty far along but in lots of other ways we have a lot of room to improve.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from Patrick Davitt with Autonomous.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My question is on INTECH demand.
It seems like that the kind of outflow monkey continues to kind of hang around.
Despite what should be a better environment for that product.
And you and other players in the space continue to have a point to having less correlation of having more volatility theoretically being good for that business but you kind of talk broadly about why the flows aren’t getting better there.
For you and the industry and if you’re concerned at all about competitor or competitive technologies and products maybe that seem to be hitting that permanently? Thanks Pat.
I guess just going back to the basic facts.
In 2015 we saw significant negative growth a little worse than 18% for INTECH in the U.S.
institutional space.
And we saw a little better than 12% organic growth outside the U.S.
And we think those trends have been sustained for a while not in – necessarily those precise numbers because of course as we’ve discussed INTECH’s institutional business can be lumpy and certainty quarter-to-quarter it’s hard to predict with precision.
But that general trend has been present for a while.
We think it has a lot to do with the trend inside the U.S.
have a lot of their traditional client base looking hard at passive.
And in essence barbelling their portfolio going for big risk big alpha and then passive is the combination of how they’re managing their asset base.
And often those decisions aren’t necessarily pointed at specifically at INTECH but they can be caught up in that mix.
And that remains a challenge but we see that with relative volatility increasing and for them it’s really volatility of stocks within an index more than the volatility of the index overall.
That creates opportunity for them to deliver better performance.
And I think they’ve also done an excellent job in product development in recent years with volatility managed and absolute return solutions and a lot of customization available for institutional clients.
So we think that they’re doing a good job and we’re looking forward to seeing improved results and we’re not particularly worried about them being outcompeted by some of the other efforts out there.
We don’t see that as the main problem.
Obviously look we’re all in a competitive industry and I do want to disrespect any of their competitioners there’s good competition out there.
But that isn’t the biggest problem I think that we face.
And so it’s been a slower journey to health than we would have wanted than they would have wanted.
But these are really excellent folks who are doing a good job and they’re chipping away at these problems and I think over time they’ll get back into the winning column on the basis of their processes that actually work and on the basis that they’ve been innovative in developing a lot of new stuff.
Okay.
That’s helpful thanks.
And then a quick follow-up on the $4.3 billion of DIAM assets.
Does that include the large mandate funded from the pension in the fourth quarter...
Yes.
It does.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
I just had a question on kind of the status or progress within you trying to do lot more allocation products I mean I know Myron Scholes I guess it’s been about two years since he came onboard give or take.
But before that you had also taken on a team I think they originally built maybe a risk parity product so it feels like been talking for a while about trying to build up capabilities within more kind of I call it allocation type products or how if you want to define it but maybe feel I could – it’s been a lot of traction.
Can you maybe update us on why do you feel like maybe hasn’t build up the traction as it changes you’ve needed to make or need to make in – how you distribute the products or educating your distributors as it – at least what you have come up with at least some of the initial products there is a performance issue.
Just try and get a feel for kind of where you feel like you stand now and maybe when do you think we can really start seeing some of those investments payoff from sales perspective? Sure.
I think you’re right.
Thanks for the question Robert.
We haven’t – progress in our liquid alts area that we would have hoped for – where it’s three years plus.
And I think your analysis is fair.
We haven’t seen the progress that we would have hoped for.
Why of that is performance has been a little bit volatile I think along with that market segment there are a lot of folks in that liquid alt space that I think have suffered some similar result if you think about a number of the traditional market factors that products like that tend to bet on whether it’s emerging markets versus developed market stocks whether it’s small or mid-cap stocks versus large cap stocks whether it’s some forms of commodity exposure.
They are big pieces of the traditional range of those liquid alt products that haven’t worked in recent market conditions and that’s true for us as well as for others.
But it’s frustrating it’s frustrating that we haven’t been able to do better in developing that uncorrelated low beta zero beta return stream and building better client interest.
So we’re continuing to work hard on that and think about it.
But we openly acknowledged three years in we’re not as far along as we might have hoped when we set out on the journey.
I think the adaptive asset allocation product that you’ve referenced that was started by Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar.
I think it’s in a very different position.
I think that product was launched about seven months ago.
I don’t have daily performance in front of me.
But I think it’s done – it’s kept its investment promises pretty darn well.
And we remain optimistic that can build.
But clearly seven months for that is a very short period of time and a little bit too early to be saying anything important about results at this early juncture.
It’s a very impressive team they’re terrific people they’ve done very good research and thought.
They have prior experience that they bring with them to this particular problem.
And we’re excited about the opportunities for frankly for both adapted global allocation and also for liquid alts if we can start get in that moving forward in the right way.
But transparently I think your question is right we haven’t yet delivered the assets in these areas and the revenues in these areas and we’re accountable for that.
Thanks.
And maybe just as a follow-up also a strategic question.
As you and Jennifer pointed out your balance sheet has been cleaned up you’ve done a couple of smallest size acquisitions.
Casually what’re you thinking about in terms of – if you look at strategically in terms of product holes and maybe one-way you fill them is through doing some more bolt-on.
So what’s kind of – what do you think those product holes maybe and what’s your appetite for additional bolt-on transactions to fill some of those or is it more kind of – maybe want to focus on building things organically? I think in a talent based business such as we have our judgment is clearly our first job is to build it organically.
And these little acquisitions are sort of quasi-organic if you will.
They don’t create big separate bolt-ons in either the case of VelocityShares or Kapstream they’re pretty darn integrated and that’s first choice in job one.
That said we keep our ears and eyes open to other opportunities.
We just recognize that the challenges of execution culturally and financially are significant.
And we’re cautious about how we approach any such things.
Lastly I’ll say I think your use of the word bolt-on evokes this response.
I think when you bring a whole another brand in a bolt-on standalone kind of separate thing into your company in a multi-boutique frame introduce a lot of complexity.
Introduce complexity in the eyes of the client introduce complexity in the eyes of the rest of the organization.
Your salespeople already are covering a fair amount of diverse product across what we do how much more can ensure they cover.
There are lots of reasons to be hesitant about increasing complexity through bolt-ons and I would say we are hesitant.
That’s not to say we wouldn’t do one if we thought the benefits that way those costs.
But I think we’re pretty realistic and experienced about challenges that those things can bring.
So we look at it cautiously as well.
So organic is clearly plan A.
And then we look at these other things.
I wouldn’t say that they are likely or by any means they are long shots by their nature.
But we get educated and learn things from exploring the marketplace and talking to smart people.
Never say never something could happen but I just wouldn’t view it as the most likely outcome.
Thank you Dick.
And ladies and gentlemen we do have time for one last question that will come from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Well thanks a lot for all of your commentary regarding the performance and the improvement there.
Just hoping you guys might be able to give us a little perspective on what is that Janus as a firm is doing? Whether it’s your investment process or perhaps style drift that’s helping to contribute to the strong performance we are seeing? I think true for Janus but also true for any of our investment platforms.
The first thing you have to have is the right people you have to have great talent.
It’s a highly highly competitive industry when you are trading against our liquid markets well that is a hard job.
And fortunately in the Janus equity team we have some really terrific people both on the portfolio management side as well as the analyst side.
And then and lots of ways to trading and others to support so we are proud of that team.
Second I think you need that talent to be working together very effectively as a team.
With a clear eye vision about what kind of portfolios you are trying to build portfolio construction and risk management.
And I credit our CIO Enrique Chang with leading the process the philosophy the people and getting the talent aligned to deliver really improved results.
And hopefully consistent results through time and also as you may be aware we have a new Director of Research Carmel Wellso she’s not new to Janus she’s been here a long time but she was relatively recently promoted into the role of Director of Research.
I think at the end of the first quarter of last year and she has done superb job of maintaining talent attracting new talent and aligning that talent behind the portfolio goals.
And so I think those things are all really important and I think you have a very good team as well that and strongly aligned.
And we are just pleased with the progress and proud of that team.
Okay my one follow-up really quick.
The departure of Mr.
Smith Gibson Smith I understand that you guys really can’t talk to the potential impact on the firm.
But hoping that you might be able to share a thought or two about why he ultimately decide to leave Janus it just struck us as a bit of a surprise given all the success he has had at the firm? Yes we get that question as you can imagine a lot.
And some people commented I think very genuinely as you have and just said it looks surprising given his success.
In a way that’s true but in a way we are all just people and Gibson has worked an awfully long time building his team and his business and he reached the point just personally as a personal decision that he wanted to spend time with his family and in his personal life and doing other things.
I think that’s very genuine and I know a lot of times when folks put out a story like this to cover for some sort of big hidden whose whom to kind of story.
In this case it’s just not.
It’s just the personal decision by Gibson there isn’t a lot more behind it than that.
And it’s a challenge for us to be sure but it’s also an opportunity given the great team that he has put together to offer those folks increased scope and chances for growth.
And I think we will see exactly how we get through this transition it is too early to sort of know.
But we are off to a good start and the team looks well positioned and strong And I’m not sure we could be doing much better in that transition than we are doing right at the moment.
But it’s just too early days to know for sure how all the clients are going to react.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And Mr.
Weil at this time I will turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing comments.
Well thanks very much operator and thanks everybody for your time.
As I alluded to a little bit earlier we look at this down market.
And we are concerned obviously about the potential effects on our clients and the potential effects on our business.
In particular I think if this transitions into a lot of systemic stress in some way through the financial institutions.
It can get worse we just don’t know whether this is a more temporary sort of correction or whether it will get more serious and more sustained.
And we are going to keep an eye on that and if it’s the latter obviously we will go back and take a hard look at what we are doing and try and be even more efficient over time.
But as we face these challenges our investment teams are continuing to deliver really good results for our clients.
Our distribution seems strong and increasing in strength and we are seeing opportunities to get market share in various places around the globe and in certainly – in particularly in the U.S intermediary markets which is very exciting for us.
We are seeing a positive contribution from recent strategic transactions; we are really pleased with the excellent folks and businesses that joined us in VelocityShares and Kapstream.
And we think that helps diversify and strengthen our business.
And again our balance sheet has never been stronger and at least the last decade it’s in very good shape which positions us to withstand the challenges I think quite well.
So as a firm we are aware of these challenges but we are still excited about our future and maybe I like some other challenging periods in the past.
We think we have opportunities now to be on the front foot and take market share from other folks and that’s our intention.
So thank you very much for your time today and we will talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for attending.