(Operator Instructions) On as assets in 76 as liabilities.
Two questions can you tell us how much of those are netted for the same counterparty? And second how much of those numbers was the CIO numbers in that at the end of that quarter? We’ll do the second one first.
I think it’s a very small but CIO is a very small for that number.
Okay.
I would agree.
And that’s number one.
Number two they are very complex in any rule which I don't want to go to here about derivatives but we did do a presentation.
At one point it’s showing exactly how it droves net by counterparty and we’d be happy to share that with you and take you through it.
Thank you.
Let me make an announcement for the phone and if you are on the phone please put yourself on the queue at this point and we’re going to take a few more questions in the room and then we’re going to move to the phone.
(Inaudible) Okay so then let’s continue.
LLC</strong> Hi Nancy Bush again.
Mike a question for you.
Looking at your slide number eight the events in late April you say Senior Corporate Risk Management team began onsite bottom-up engagement on April 27 had a senior risk management team done an onsite bottom-up engagement in the CIO before and is that now sort of a established part of risk management.
It’s a good question Nancy.
What we refer to there is a – in late April at this stage which John Hogan over there and team folks from outside CIO and for cross business when into – to really sit onsite and take the book apart.
Prior to that there was obviously work being done with senior risk folks but we’re looking through the lens of the CIO risk team.
So it took to a different level of intrusion.
And the CIO risk team did an inadequate job.
LLC</strong> Okay.
(Inaudible) One quick tweak of the and share has always been the incentive structure.
I’m just wondering if in the CIO review there was any conclusions based on – if incentives were aligned with long-term shareholder interest.
Sure we’ve obviously looked at all that.
None of the people in CIO are on in any form of formulas to business is not on a formula.
We obviously looked at compensation for what we were doing in CIO relative to what you would see – pay related to running $350 billion fixed income portfolio.
I can’t obviously get in the minds of the individuals that – in making individual decisions but we’ve looked for evidence of particular things that were problematic around our compensation schemes and then found no particular issues.
Matt Burnell.
Good morning Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo Securities.
A couple of quick questions for you Doug.
First of all you mentioned that the net interest margin effect of the AFS gain or the securities that were sold to generate the gains this quarter had no effect on this quarter’s NIM.
Does that imply any of future quarters NIM as well? No.
Depending on the sales were down.
No no.
Okay.
More a function of reinvestment.
Fair enough okay.
And then in terms of the investment banking in sales and trading results those appear to be even if you strip out the DVA reasonably strong.
Could you give us a sense as to what your outlook is for those numbers to the extent that you can guess it and what the drag from Europe is on that on your outlook there for the next quarter or two? Yeah first of all as you know investment banking revenues are unparticular by the nature.
And whenever they come in with a low number I would say we’re pretty much higher.
So right now it looks similar to what it was last quarter.
That can change at any one point in time.
Obviously I think you see everywhere the business in Asia and Europe were down the America remains to be same.
And then one final question.
given all the information that Mike provided to us how much of that information or will there be more information not only provided to the regulators but some of your friends on Capital Health?  So we share a lot of information that people ask the radar is a completely up-to-date on Mike’s information.
Mike get into this...
Yeah absolutely.
More than absolutely.
(Inaudible) Thank you.
I'm (inaudible).
Maybe from the perspective of the buy side a long suffering shareholder and my clients I’d like to follow-up on Mike Mayo’s question and also reference to KBW report that looked at the potential of splitting off the Chase Consumer Bank with RON credit and having a standalone JPMorgan Commercial bank investment bank trust and TSS.
and the point being much as the tipping point or actual diseconomies of scale and even if there are economies of scale the stock market refuses to acknowledge it in terms of the multiple continuum to come down.
And I look at the track record over the past year so and notwithstanding a great performance relative to a pretty low VaR.
but it's still a good performance.
But we've had the mortgage servicing issues mortgage foreclosure issues and military veteran issues energy commodities sales practices now that’s inexcusable just unbelievable CIO debacle and our potential LIBOR.
And I think about what has to happen for either you as a management team or you as a board to finally say we are a great institution and we own a lot of great businesses but we have reached that point where we are too big to manage and in the interest of our shareholders there’s a different corporate structure that would better serve your owners.
Thank you.
Yeah just I like to differ okay and there is huge strength in this company that the units get from each other.
So we don't have the strategy or we’re guessing the things.
The investment banks sort of the commercial bank the TSS gives huge order flows investment bank we think there is a numerous amount of cross-sell and we do just as much as most anybody else have there between the consumer banks small business private wealth management credit card mortgage.
And our job is to do a great job serving clients grow the business and eventually the stock will reflect it.
And so I think also people they’re spitting off company.
I’ll give my whole life that gives us (inaudible) higher P lower P that’s like that’s very short-term stuff.
Have a strategy execute on it built a business that's where you build value.
We don't feel great to be it haven’t been a great job for sure all this recently that we completely acknowledge and but we keep on building the company and one day the stock will reflect it.
If the Board ever thought of a better strategies that will be considered at the time.
Right I would respectively say that yeah certainly the cross-sell is very obvious and that's why we’re not look at separating into numerous companies but I'm just wondering at what point it does become more apparent that there are diseconomies and is it potential that is it possible to have CIO in part of a smaller institution it would have gotten the management look that it required.
Hundreds of small banks have gone bankrupt okay (inaudible) went bankrupt?  I'm not telling you those… You could have argued the other way there is a huge source of strength that helps growing this company do all these norms and do best during the involvement do all these wonderful things CIO was a mistake and we’re sorry.
(Inaudible)  Hi two very quick follow-ups.
One I just want to make sure on the LIBOR issue.
I understand all the things that you can’t talk about mid investigation but I’m assuming this has been gone on for a while that you’ve had three six maybe more months of internal investigations.
Is there anything you can tell us and comment on? No.
All right one last try okay Doug on the commentary… Oh no.
All right Mike on the expense commentary second half and first half just technical question does that exclude the $3 billion or so of litigation reserve build in the first half or is it all inclusive?  We talked about the adjusted expenses excludes that.
Okay thanks.
I think we had a question from John McDonald.
I actually had two and Glenn just stolen both.
But I guess just one more slide that’s on the LIBOR do you have any sense of how long the issue will overhang on the industry and whether we’ll get some kind of clarity about the investigations over the summer or is it something that could drag on for long time? Any insight in that and when we’re going to get more information on it? We had no special insight again.
Okay thanks.
Richard Ramsden? Just a quick follow-up either for Jamie or Mike was the process of valuing positioned in the CIO book different to the investment bank? Was it just the application of the evaluation technique? I’m referring specifically to the Q1 restatement? Thanks.
This is the application of policies are the same across businesses different applications.
Ed Najarian.
Hi Jamie quick follow-up on sort of your perspective on capital so since Investor Day in February it seems like the world has gotten a little bit of – to be a scarier place in terms of – we’re more concerned about Europe we have the LIBOR thing has cropped up we're talking more about global economic slowdown.
I know you mentioned you love to buyback the stock at one times tangible book but is there anything about the last several months of events just from a macro standpoint that make you want to drive to higher capital ratios or get to 9.5% on Basel III Tier 1 common equity faster than you might have thought you wanted to back in February?  Yeah there – a little bit and you know those things are as Europe the fiscal cliff in the United States it’s all those things will make you to be a little more cautious but again I think we’re – next year regardless of all the things and whatever happens.
Gerard Cassidy.
Mike you give us a very thorough detailed disclosure how you attack this problem with the CIO and you are very confident that you have your arms around it.
Do the regulators have that same confidence have they shared that with you that they feel very good that you guys sort of look at this problem? I can't speak for the regulators but certainly they have been – we’ve spend a lot of time with them to keep them informed and obviously wanted to guide our work apart from the get going away that was going to satisfy a lot of different opportunities.
They're going to do their own work as they show it it comes to own conclusions.
Remember the board as an independent group which is still guiding this taskforce and it will come to its own conclusions too.
Brennan Hawken.
Mike when you went through your review do you think that may be the idea that there was no formula for comp in the CIO might have led to some of the trouble and the stretching? And then on a go-forward basis as the follow-up which is probably more important how are you guys thinking about structuring comp in the CIO office over the next few years.
No I mean I don’t think.
When we talk about formulas the individuals getting a cut off revenue none of that existed and I don’t think that’s a good thing.
I think the kind of practices that are common in CIO was the same as what we do on our Investment Bank.
It’s taking the totality of managers subjective judgment of performance in a multi-year view of how good a person is in his job for multiple years.
All that together with the pay practices how we defer compensation all are our sound policies and it’s the application obviously that you have to get right.
Matt who is now running CIO I’m sure will just bring his own individual management style to doing that but we didn’t walk away with the feeling that there is anything different about that even with the company or that the company broadly should be doing differently around in administering compensation.
And the idea now that we don’t have a synthetic in CIO clearly that’s going to mean we should probably just assume more volatile results out of that business and particularly in times when credits getting a little funky.
No no.
Well I mean obviously we… I show you the portfolio.
As an exception.
I showed it was AA+.
It’s an AFS portfolio.
It’s not mark-to-market and P&amp;L.
It’s got a 3.7 year average life 80% government guaranteed or government type of entity guaranteed.
You’re not going to move all to in it.
If we have a small hedge there if we are sure and you see we hedge more in Europe that’s what we need when doing a hedge.
That really has very good AFS but the AFS’s subordinates rest of the company.
Nothing would please us more than to reduce AFS and make some more great loans.
So they can’t say we pay just from the revenues there broadly because they’re not there for that where do they manage this portfolio.
We need some very good people.
There’s $350 billion it operates actually how many countries on multiple currencies.
So it is we need some very good people managing that book just exactly what (inaudible) were BlackRock fixed income portfolio.
(Inaudible) Yeah.
Doug can you just help us understand why the default servicing expenses aren’t coming through as fast as you thought and when they might start coming through? Yeah so I mentioned three things obviously we operate some of the consent order; second is this independent foreclosure review those cost are larger and are going on longer than we expected; and then third is we just continue to have a lot of defaults properties that we’re processing through.
Those will be coming down.
Those will come down over time but they have – they remained at a level.
So our expectation is we’ve thought we’d seen movement in the second third and fourth quarter.
It’s more likely that it’s 2013 event.
Do we have any additional questions on the phone? Hey good morning.
Doug just a question for you on the margin just wanted to help if you can flush out why we saw a decline and it seem like in the trading asset you had securities borrowed turned negative in terms of the yield other trading assets understood that you have a lower rate environment but on the flip side the cost of the trading assets on the liability side seem to go up.
So just if you could – is that the hedging impact or can you just kind of explain a little bit more detail on why we’re seeing this dynamic of the negative spread and securities borrowed and other issues? I’ll get back to you on that.
Okay I’ll follow-up.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Any other questions on the phone?   Any question in the room?  Folks thank you very much for spending some time with us revenues next time.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!