Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 4 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Valerie Finberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications’ fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I’d like to draw your attention to the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information.
As the acquisition of tw telecom closed on October 31 2014 consolidated financial statements for the fourth quarter 2014 include a full quarter of Level 3 results and two months of tw telecom results.
Information provided for both Level 3 and tw telecom on a standalone basis exclude acquisition related expenses intercompany eliminations and acquisition accounting adjustments.
Standalone tw telecom results are based on tw telecom’s definitions for all metrics provided.
Growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on Page 2 of our 4Q 2014 earnings presentation.
The presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see on Slide 3 2014 was a solid year for Level 3.
I’m pleased with our execution throughout the year and the strong finish from both teams: standalone Level 3 and tw telecom.
At the beginning of 2014 we highlighted our focus on profitable revenue growth improving adjusted EBITDA and generating free cash flow.
We made significant progress with respect to those financial metrics.
I’m also very pleased with completion of the tw telecom acquisition late last fall.
Since the close of the acquisition at the end of October we’ve made steady progress against our integration plans.
The acquisition is an important step in solidifying our place in the industry as we tied together one of the world’s most sophisticated and extensive international networks with one of our nation’s premier domestic networks.
We are very focused on profitably integrating the organization products networks and support systems and believe these efforts will position us well for 2016 and beyond.
Integrating quickly and according to our plans is our highest operational priority for the year and we will not lose focus on those efforts.
For our usual process Sunit will provide an overview of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results then I will provide additional detail on the integration process and what we’re targeting for 2015.
After that we will open the call up for your questions.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
2014 was the pivotal year for Level 3 setting us up on the path to sustainable and growing free cash flow.
We performed well compared to our full year outlook for revenue adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow growth.
Our focus right now is integrating tw telecom.
In addition we are investing for profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
Before I dive into the details I’d like to start on Slide 4 and highlight Level 3’s performance on a standalone basis for the year.
Our Core Network Services revenue for the full year 2014 grew 6.1% year-over-year on a constant currency basis compared to 2.9% growth for the full year 2013.
Our adjusted EBITDA grew 19% for the full year 2014 compared to our outlook of 14% to 18% growth.
We generated free cash flow of $325 million for the full year 2014 compared to our full year outlook of $250 million to $300 million.
Including all acquisition related expenses; our free cash flow was $261 million for the full year.
Additionally we continue to lower our net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio which is now at 4.4 times on a pro forma basis to include tw telecom and excluding acquisition related expenses.
Turning to Slide 5 on a constant currency basis CNS revenue grew 5.1% to $1.497 billion in the fourth quarter.
On an as reported basis CNS revenue grew 3.7% due to the strength in the dollar.
On a regional basis North America continue to show good growth as CNS revenue grew 6.3% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 11%.
In EMEA for the fourth quarter CNS revenue grows 0.5% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.2% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 9% on a constant currency basis or 6.7% on a reported basis.
In 2015 as we remain focused on profitability and as contracts come to an end with the UK government we expect steeper declines in UK government revenue.
As of the fourth quarter 2014 revenue for the UK government represented approximately 13% of EMEA CNS revenue.
For reference you can find fourth quarter and full year revenue for the UK government footnoted in the revenue table on Page 2 of our press release.
We plan to disclose UK government revenue for every quarter in 2015.
In Latin America for the fourth quarter CNS revenue grew 4.1% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.1% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise revenue grew 3.2% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.6% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise growth in the region was a bit weaker this quarter compared to early in the year because of a few large disconnects in data center services during the quarter.
For the fourth quarter wholesale CNS revenue grew 7.6% on a constant currency basis or 2.2% on an as reported basis.
Wholesale Voice Services and Other or WVS revenue declined to $137 million in the fourth quarter 2014.
For the full year 2014 WVS revenue declined 19% to $582 million.
Turning to Slide 6 for the fourth quarter 2014 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.4%.
Moving ahead to Slide 8 fourth quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $470 million.
This compares to adjusted EBITDA of $448 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 which included a $10 million Latin America tax benefit.
For the full year 2014 adjusted EBITDA grew 19% to $1.869 billion from $1.565 billion in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 28.8% in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 28% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Over the course of the full year 2014 we made great progress in expanding adjusted EBITDA margins from 24.8% in 2013 to 28.8% for the full year 2014.
The improvement in full year margin was driven by growth in both high margin CNS revenue and adjusted EBITDA and the benefit of the cost reduction actions taken in the third quarter of 2013.
On Slide 9 in 2014 capital expenditures were $847 million representing 13% of total revenue.
This was in line with our full-year expectation of 12% to 13% of total revenue and included some integration CapEx.
As of December 31 2014 the company had cash and cash equivalents of $580 million.
Focusing on tw telecom results on a standalone basis as you can see on Slide 10 and Slide 11 tw telecom delivered another quarter of solid growth.
Sequential improvement in EBITDA was primarily driven by synergies including executive management headcount reductions reduced cost from moving tw telecom traffic onto the Level 3 network and generally in general salary and benefit savings as all new hires being added to the Level 3 payroll.
I would like to note that going forward we will no longer be providing separate disclosure for tw telecom results.
Moving to Slide 12 on a pro forma combined basis total revenue was $2.052 billion for the fourth quarter 2014 and $8.123 billion for the full year 2014.
CNS revenue was $1.915 billion in the fourth quarter 2014 growing 5.8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 on a constant currency basis.
On an as reported basis in the fourth quarter CNS revenue grew 4.8%.
Wholesale voice and other was $137 million for the fourth quarter with a very small contribution through tw telecom and represents 7% of total revenue.
We expect continued double digit rates of decline in WVS revenue in 2015.
On a geographic basis for the fourth quarter about 79% of our CNS revenue is from North America 11% from EMEA and 10% from Latin America.
As a combined company we have approximately 52 000 customers of which 94% are in the enterprise segment and the remaining 6% are in the wholesale segment.
From a revenue perspective enterprise is 71% of our CNS revenue and wholesale is 29%.
Turning to revenue results by product group on Slide 13; on a pro forma combined basis for the fourth quarter and all on an as reported basis we saw continued strength in our IP and data services group which grew 8.9% and represented 46% of CNS revenue.
Within that group CDN revenues grew 7.6% and represent about 2% of CNS revenue.
Transport and fiber grew 4.5% and represent 30% of CNS revenue.
Within transport and fiber dark fiber grew 1.7% and represents about 5% of CNS revenue.
Dark fiber growth was slower this quarter compared to last quarter because of auto pay and back bills collected in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Normalizing for those back bills dark fiber grew 6.4% and transport and fiber grew 5.2%.
Voice Services was flat year-over-year representing 16% of CNS revenue.
And colocation and data services which makeup 8% of CNS revenue declined 5.5% driven by some large customer disconnects in LatAm and EMEA along with negative currency effects.
Regarding pricing as we’ve said for several quarters we see little change in the pricing environment.
We remain disciplined on pricing for Internet services as we manage for profitability and transition those services from wholesale to enterprise customers.
Turning to Slide 14 adjusted EBITDA including acquisition-related expenses was $469 million for the fourth quarter 2014 and $2.271 billion for the full year 2014.
Excluding acquisition related expenses adjusted EBITDA was $625 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and $2.443 billion for the full year 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin excluding acquisition related expenses was 30.5% for the fourth quarter of 2014 and 30.1% for the full year 2014.
Turning to Slide 15 for the fourth quarter of 2014 the combined-company spent $100 million on transaction related expenses and $56 million on integration related expenses.
For the full year the company spent $112 million on transaction-related expenses and $60 million on integration-related expenses.
For 2015 we expect to spend roughly $50 million on EBITDA effecting integration expenses with some remaining cost in 2016.
From a CapEx perspective we expect about $70 million of integration CapEx this year in 2015 as we invest for common network systems and synergies.
During the fourth quarter 2014 we achieved approximately $38 million of our targeted $200 million of run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies with network access cost synergies of $1 million and operating expense synergies of $37 million.
Going forward I’ll provide an update on both EBITDA effecting integration expenses and annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies each quarter.
Turning to Slide 16 as noted in our earnings release we completed several capital markets transactions over the past few months and will continue to be opportunistic in managing our balance sheet.
Related to those transactions we expect to incur $14 million charge for the extinguishment of debt in the second quarter of this year.
On a combined-company basis we exited the year with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA or 4.4 times on a pro forma basis and excluding acquisition related expenses.
This compares to 4.8 times at the end of 2013 on a standalone basis for Level 3.
We remain focused on getting to the low end of our target leverage range of three to five times driven by growth and adjusted EBITDA.
We ended the quarter with approximately 341 million shares outstanding.
On a fully diluted basis including the remaining 12 million shares associated with the converts that mature in March our shares outstanding are approximately 358 million.
The Company’s U.S.
net operating loss carry forward or NOL balance was approximately $10.3 billion as of the end of 2014.
Turning to Slide 17 I’d like to now focus on our business outlook which is outlined in this slide and in this morning’s press release.
While we are not providing overall CNS revenue guidance I did want to cover what we expect from a regional perspective on a constant currency basis.
Our LatAm CNS revenues grew 8.5% in 2014 compared to full year 2013.
We expect comparable performance in 2015.
EMEA declined 2.2% in 2014.
We expect a smaller percentage decline in 2015 driven by better performance in enterprise and wholesale offset by a more rapid decline in UK Government revenue.
For reference UK Government revenue declined 17% in 2014.
In North America our CNS revenue growth will be a little softer than the 6.8% growth we saw for the pro forma combined-company performance in the fourth quarter.
This is because we had the benefit of incremental growth in 2014 including turning up the Starbucks contract revenue and some large federal contracts that we don’t expect this year.
With our focus on profitable revenue growth and synergy savings we expect strong growth in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow in 2015.
Specifically from the adjusted EBITDA starting point of $2.271 billion from 2014 we expect to grow adjusted EBITDA 12% to 16% for the full year 2015.
In addition we expect to generate free cash flow of $550 million to $600 million for the full year 2015.
In 2014 Level 3 spent 13% of revenue and CapEx and tw telecom spent approximately 25%.
On a blended basis that is approximately 15.5%.
In 2015 we expect to spend about 15% of total revenue on CapEx which includes $40 million in capital expenditure synergies and integration related CapEx of about $70 million.
For the first quarter 2015 we expect CNS revenue to be up slightly on an as reported basis relative to the pro forma combined company fourth quarter 2014 figure of $1.915 billion.
Due to continued underlying growth in CNS revenue offsetting the typical soft sequential comparison from four to first quarter revenue.
We expect first quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA to be up slightly compared to the fourth quarter 2014 pro forma adjusted EBITDA of $625 million.
Free cash flow in the first quarter will be slightly negative due to the payment of annual bonuses in cash for the combined company and higher net cash interest expense of $169 million in the first quarter.
As a reminder last year and in previous years for Level 3 standalone we only paid 40% of annual bonuses in cash and the remainder in shares of common stock.
In summary 2014 was a good year for the company.
In 2015 in addition to free cash flow growth we are focused on integration synergies and driving profitable revenue growth.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
As I noted earlier 2014 was a good year for Level 3.
As we look to 2015 we’re confident in our ability to meet the revenue adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow outlook that Sunit described.
To achieve our adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow outlook and continued driving profitable revenue growth I’d like to emphasize three key priorities.
First and foremost is the successful integration of Level 3 and tw telecom.
Second is enabling EMEA to live up to its full potential and support the growth we believe we can achieve in that region.
Third is to position Level 3 for growth well into the future.
While we have been and we’ll continue to be an acquisitive company right now our number one priority is integrating tw telecom.
There are many definitions we could apply to win integration is complete but by my standard it’s a multiyear process and will not be completed in 2015.
In broad terms my definition that completely integrated includes a single set of products for our customers around the globe a unified sales team capable of selling those products effectively in our target market and our target customer verticals a network optimized to drive high margin products to high margin locations and integrated operational support platform that enables our employees to deliver the best customer experience in the industry and a global workforce acting seamlessly across international borders and diverse languages to meet the global needs of all of our customers.
We began initiatives across each of these areas.
As an example this week we completed the go-forward sales structure for the North America sales team combining the best general managers from both companies and aligning these GMs and their teams around the opportunities our global capabilities create.
Effective this month all of our sales people across the combined-company have their go-forward assigned customer accounts.
In addition as announced last year we formalized our Global Account Management structure this organization reporting to Andrew Crouch is charged with providing a seamless customer experience to our largest multi-national customers by services across the globe.
From a product network and systems planning perspective the key to our approach is the word one one product set one network one set of support systems.
With several past acquisitions we made the decision to keep multiple instances of certain systems products and even in some cases duplicate networks.
While this approach has several benefits it created ongoing complexity in the sales service delivery and service assurance environment.
Even the limited number of acquisitions by tw telecom their systems environment was much more straightforward compared to Level 3s especially for the quote to service delivery process.
We will be scaling those capabilities and working to move the company to single platform over time.
In terms of the network we’ve interconnected the tw telecom in Level 3 networks and are now beginning efforts to fully integrate them as they single unified network.
We’re also confident in our ability to deliver the synergy savings we’ve discussed in previous calls.
Turning to EMEA you’ve heard me say we need to do more to live up to our full potential in that region.
I believe we now have the right leader Andrew Crouch to implement the changes needed and provide the leadership to improve our performance.
As many of you know Andrew was a principle driver of our success in North America.
Since taking the helm in November in EMEA Andrew has moved quickly to make leadership changes and is focusing the team on improving sales delivering profitable growth and returning the region to the success we’ve had in the past.
Before I move on to what we’re doing and where we’re investing position the company for the future I wanted to take a moment to discuss performance and expectations in Latin America.
We’ve had a long history of success and have confidence in the highly capable LatAm team led by Hector Alonso.
For several years in a row we’ve seen LatAm deliver double-digit revenue growth.
In 2014 and specifically the fourth quarter growth was not as strong in part due to the economic environment in the region.
However the underlying factors that drive growth in our business have not changed in Latin America.
Bandwidth demands continue to grow in an extraordinary rate the need to this capacity and connectivity is global in nature and not solely within the region.
And as a result our subsea systems give us a unique product set not easily matched by our competitors.
And we have an outstanding team focused on the opportunities within the region and within each country we serve.
Turning to future growth.
We believe all of the work we’re doing around the integration is also critical for positioning the company to capitalize on future growth opportunities.
One set of services over a combined network with a standard operating environment globally allows us to meet the ever changing needs of our customers.
Whether interconnecting the customers’ branch locations throughout the world over an ethernet based IP VPN or connecting a corporate date center to cloud service providers via Level 3’s Cloud Connect Solutions or using Level 3’s advanced DDoS Mitigation services to protect the company from internet attacks.
Level 3 is well positioned to meet the complex networking needs of our customers.
We remain focused on meeting the wire line communication needs of our enterprise customers.
And I’m confident that as we execute against our integration plans this year we’ll continue to position the company to take market share and further transforming the business on an ongoing basis.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess Sunit following-up on your commentary on the revenue side of the equation I guess a couple part question if I could.
On your geographic outlook I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about - a little bit more detail about the European strength that you were seeing on the enterprise side of the equation and I thought you’re sort of behind some of the UK government stuff but it seems like that’s coming back in.
Also on the LatAm side of the equation maybe you just talk about what you saw on the data center disconnects and where those were going and your comfort around the 2015 guide? And then just for a bit of housekeeping if you could just share with us what your - what impact of FX could be on reported revenue and more importantly on EBITDA for 2015? Thanks.
So I will start first with the question on EMEA I think that prior to last year; our enterprise revenue growth in EMEA excluding UK government had been close to double-digit type growth.
It was a little softer last year and we see that picking up.
We also had a fairly steep decline in the wholesale business in EMEA last year we think that is stabilizing in the sense of we won’t see that kind of decline in the wholesale segment.
So therefore we expect that our performance in enterprise and wholesale I think the UK government revenue - we were hoping at this point to win new government contracts in the UK government.
What has actually happened I think is you probably know from last year with some of the cell phone tapping events in Europe where we’re seeing the business there is going to UK carriers meaning principally VTN and Vodafone.
So last year was a relatively stable year for us with respect to UK government meaning you saw the year-over-year decline but a lot of that happened in 2013 over the course of 2014 UK government revenue are fairly stable.
So what we are now seeing in 2015 and 2016 is those contracts going away and so that’s what’s hurting us.
So we will see the decline in the UK government revenue accelerate a little in 2015 which is why we are going to provide separate disclosure of that.
But when you put it all together the fact that it is a small percent of the CNS revenue in EMEA and the better performance on wholesale.
And in enterprise we expect EMEA revenues to decline a little on a constant currency basis but not as much as a 2.2% decline we saw last year.
In Latin America I think that the data center business there is lumpier in the sense that we had some big customers there we had some disconnects as I said some in EMEA but the bigger ones in LatAm.
So we saw the impact of that in the quarter.
We certainly feel our data center business and our assets in Latin America premier assets and they should be able to grow that back up again.
And as we look at LatAm in general in spite of the macroeconomic issues that we’ve talked about other than Venezuela which I’ll quickly touch up on we expect comparable constant currency growth in LatAm.
They continue to be a lot of opportunities the one particularly strong segment within that as Jeff mentioned was the sale - the demand for subsea capacity to Latin America which has been a bright spot.
Venezuela just to touch up on that I think that in general most companies are using the SICAD 1 rate which is 12.1 bolivars to the dollar the official rate is about 6 bolivars.
We switch to that SICAD 1 rate some time ago.
Over the course of this year as we expect some more news out of Venezuelan government which would reconcile the SICAD 1 rate which is at 12 bolivars versus the SICAD 2 rate which is at 50 bolivars.
For sometime later in the year we will have to address that as the government moves in that direction.
But away from that I think generally we expect similar growth in LatAm that we saw last year.
Great and then… And then to your question on currency and EBITDA look I think the bad news is the dollar strengthened a lot if you have business outside the U.S.
the good news is less than about 20% of our CNS revenues are outside the U.S.
a lot of the strength in the dollar has already happened so we’ve certainly factored that into our outlook for EBITDA.
So we feel very confident about the EBITDA outlook that we have provided given current exchange rate.
So obviously if the dollar strengthened some more that could impact us in the margin.
But at the EBITDA level we are more or better hedged I would say or have less exposure than on the revenue side.
As we’ve explained in the past our biggest exposure from an EBITDA perspective is the Brazilian real and the euro not as much as sterling.
We are profitable in UK but what we see is our regional headquarters so we have fair amount of sterling expense in the UK.
And at this point I think we’ve factored in - we are assuming currency rates that are in effect right now for our outlook so we feel quite comfort about the EBITDA outlook.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi great.
Two questions if I may.
The first one you talked about going back to previous acquisitions - in effect we fully integrating them or moving more towards the full integration.
Where would be reflected in the potential for synergy? So you’ve obviously already outlined synergies that you anticipate from tw telecom specifically and that’s within your traditional comp 10% to 20% of OpEx of the company you’re acquiring.
How should we think about the additional savings you’re going to get from going back to some of these previous acquisitions? And then the second question what if any refi have you assumed in your interest expense guidance? Thanks.
And I guess it ticks that you haven’t any what might - what I guess could be potentially being considered? Thanks.
Well I’ll take the second question first.
So on the refi no we have not assumed any further refinancing.
Obviously they are opportunities for us to do that later in the year.
I think my summary is when and when we do them it depends on interest rates at that time and timing.
I don’t see it impacting.
It certainly impacts our run rate interest expense on a go-forward basis might not have as much impact within the year.
So I think there are opportunities for us.
We have about $1.5 billion for callable debt with coupons and the aids.
So that’s certainly an opportunity for us later in the year.
They are not callable currently so I think these are more second half of the year type opportunities depending on where interest rates are.
Well Colby with respect to the integrations of previous acquisitions we are looking at our business going forward and what we’re trying to build for Level 3 with one network one product one systems that I talked about.
And so I wouldn’t put any additional savings from previous integrations but what I would say is that we are trying to integrate the operational support systems so it’s easier for our employees to do their jobs and satisfy our customers better.
We’re trying to make sure that we continue to evolve our network.
If you look at our ethernet product we have different platforms around the globe in which we delivered ethernet services.
We are moving to a single platform and we’ll be able to deliver a uniform product across the globe wherever the customers are located and also a uniform system for our employees to use to deliver that product.
And so that’s what we’re talking about is really creating that one set of products that one unified network and one set of operational support systems.
I guess to follow-up into that Jeff.
I mean I listen to John Blount at the recent Metro Connect Conference and part of what he said you guys are doing that for is to make it easier to make additional acquisitions thereafter integrating tw telecom.
How quickly do you think you could be ready to be doing that? That’s a good question and the one I am really not ready to answer.
I mean right now we are focused on tw telecom and we will always be opportunistic and looking at things going forward but we’re going to integrate tw telecom in Level 3 and build that environment that I talk about.
And then once completed I think that we will be in a good position to layer on acquisitions in a more straight forward and streamline fashion.
But for today we are focused on integrating tw telecom and delivering the growth opportunities that we see out of that acquisition.
Great well congrats on the quarter and the guidance.
Thank you Colby.
Next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Just to follow-up could you it appears that your guidance does include your FX outlook.
Can you quantify that the total for a currency headwind for 2015.
And then on the further integration with the sales in the IT systems give us a little bit more color on exactly the types of systems that you’re still looking to changeover and sort of a timeframe and what kind of cost savings will that represent when those are all switched over to the same platform? So on your first question as we look at - as I said we have assumed the current outlook on currencies with respect to EBITDA.
From a revenue perspective all my comments were driven by a constant currency basis meaning assuming what the growth would be on a constant currency basis.
So as I said I think unless the dollar continues to strengthen quite a bit more we can talk about it but even if it does strengthen a little from here it doesn’t have as much impact to the EBITDA line as it does from an as reported revenue basis.
So I think we’ve factored that in.
From a sales and systems integration perspective if you look at our sales efforts we have gone through and aligned across the U.S.
and John Blount’s organization all of the GMs we’ve taken about 60 of the GMs taking the best from both companies we’ve aligned their teams around the global opportunities that we have not only the local market opportunities but the global capabilities to bring those to the local markets.
We’ve gone through and changed our channel structure somewhat moving some things inside sales some things to the GAM the Global Account Management team.
And so we’ve aligned that that structure and we’ve gone through and made it clear to every single sales employee what accounts they have.
We have a lot of change going on.
All of that is a lot.
In addition we’re going to synchronize compensation plans and other things throughout the next few quarters.
So there’s a lot of activity in the integration of our sales team and making sure that we’re in a position to sell our global capabilities in North America and in EMEA and in Latin America.
With respect to systems as you might imagine Frank we have a fairly robust and complicated road map for our various systems some things our ERP.
We are standardizing ERP should be finished by the end of the year where we are globally operating on a single platform moving that towards the Level 3 systems that we’ve used.
On the customer relationship management we have a single platform we’re moving to that should be in the relatively short timeframe.
So that our sales team can use a common platform and that we can interface with that through the rest of our systems.
And if you look at our platforms I mentioned the ethernet platform but we are very actively and aggressively looking at our ethernet platform our IP VPN platform our internet services platforms and making sure that we synchronize those and build the product sets and the network to deliver those fairly quickly.
So there are a number of different initiatives that we have underway across all of those things and hopefully that gives you feel for it.
Okay great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen with Maquarie Capital.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just a quick housekeeping question first if I may.
The $550 million to $600 million of free cash flow I want to - does that include acquisition cost is that comparable to the $325 million or the $261 million for 2014? So that includes everything and that’s comparable to the $261 million.
And so yes there is no exclusions in that it’s a net net bottom line number.
Okay.
And then on the North American CNS commentary did that include TimeWarner Telecom in there or is that just standalone comparison when you made the comments about Starbucks et cetera impacting growth? No that’s looking in everything.
The reference point I was using was the pro forma combined company CNS revenue which is in the press release and the growth rate that I was talking about referred to the combined company.
Can you… Fourth quarter.
Can you give us a little granularity on individual product strength in U.S.
CNS ethernet MPLS fiber to the cell CDN SONET wavelength.
Any sort of color by product on where you’re seeing strength and where the rest are? Yes I think the best place to look at that is that combined company pro forma mix byproduct that we have.
And I think the point there is that the product that is the largest on Page 13 or Slide 13.
Our largest products are the fastest growing ones.
So if you look at 46% of the revenue in the fourth quarter CNS revenues IP and data services and that is the fastest growing product.
We expect that to continue to be the case.
Voice services I don’t see much growth there I mean somewhat stable.
I think collocation and data center revenues while they got hit by this last quarter.
We generally expect them to perform better over time.
And then transport and fiber which is 30% of the revenue base you see the growth there.
So I think within that I would say we generally think CDN should be better over time than the growth rate we just reported.
Fiber should continue to do well.
And then as far as fiber-to-the-tower that’s not a big business for us.
It will grow over time.
But again that’s not specific fiber-to-the-tower is not a product for us within the fiber segment.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yes hi thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you talk a little bit more about your capital spending outlook for 2015.
I’m wondering if you could break it down maybe into some components of what you’re spending on and how we should think about what would be a maintenance or ongoing CapEx number relative to what you’re spending on the growth initiatives? Thanks.
Sure.
So I mean if you look at the 15% of revenue guidance it’s more than $1.2 billion of CapEx roughly given an $8 billion revenue base.
So about $300 million to $350 million is maintenance I would say.
We’ve already said this year we’ll spend on top of that $70 million for integration CapEx.
The rest of the CapEx is really success-based capital for revenue growth.
And your further growth initiatives what’s your biggest focus for the year is it connecting to new building is it building new routes maybe just a little bit more granularity on how to think about this? Thanks.
Sure yes so I think our objective is to maintain or improve the number of building ads we’ve had.
If you look at both the companies Level 3 was adding about 500 or so buildings a year tw was adding about 2 000.
So we expect to maintain or grow the amount of building adds generally.
We will upgrade capacity we will need more capacity for subsea routes terrestrial routes.
We are upgrading our infrastructure in many cases backbone infrastructure from 10-gig to 100-gig.
So we’ll have moneys going in towards there.
There we’re going to keep expanding our network in the metropolitan areas meeting our fiber network in the metropolitan areas across all regions.
So you’ll have money being spent for that and there will be some money for geographic expansion.
So generally as I’ve talked about and as Jeff talked about.
We’re continuing to invest for growth not just for 2015 but for future years.
So it’s across all fronts.
And Jeff I don’t know if you want to add anything.
I think that’s right.
And the main point there is we are continuing to invest our capital.
We think there are great growth opportunities for us.
If you look at the five new markets that we added last year on a combined-company basis and the 28 markets that we’ve been expanding we think there are places and opportunities for us to invest capital.
If you look at Latin America we’re building a landing station in Columbia we’re continuing to invest in EMEA.
We want to build closer and closer to our customers and add them on that because we can provide a differentiated experience and they are very profitable opportunities for us.
And just… Yes and we have about 40 000 buildings on that and we’re adding about 2 500 hopefully closer to 3 000 per year.
So there is a pretty aggressive expansion.
And just finally is there a free cash flow level or a net debt leverage level at which point when you hit it that it would increase your interest to return capital to shareholders whether its buybacks or dividend have you given thoughts what those levels might be that would give you some considerations on that front? Yes I think as we’ve talked about in the past we have continued to think actively about that.
I think we made a couple of comments as once we kind of hit our target leverage which is at the low end of 3% to 5% and we generate lots of free cash flow that is something that we are going to think more actively about.
So I think the right threshold will be when we get to that low end of the 3% to 5% range for net debt to EBITDA.
And we’ve said that we are very focused on free cash flow per share growth and that - and we will continue to have that focus as a company.
Thanks very much.
Next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Eric Pan for Phil.
I just wanted to clarify does the EBITDA guidance include the estimated $50 million of integration costs? Yes the EBITDA guidance does include that.
Okay great.
And what has the sales force churn been like since the integration.
Can you give us some color on whether it’s had increase or stayed same.
Thanks.
Yes this is a very good question.
Since the closing we’ve not seen an increase in churn and has been about what it was before.
And if you look at our top performance it is actually lower than it was before.
And so we’ve got a lot of change going on and we’re going to do a lot of things in the sales organization this year.
But I think that our sales team sees the same thing that we see which are great opportunities with the products and services we sell to take them just to their customers and grow with our company.
And so we have not seen an increase in churn and are very focused on that and very pleased in John Blount and the other regional presidents who are working to make sure that that we stay very in tune with our sales force.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Great thanks guys.
Sunit may be you can go through how - what you expect a little bit more on revenues for the year just may be some timing.
So it sounds like Jeff you don’t really expect any dissynergies from customer overlap or redundancy but can you can focus a little bit more on specific products that either company didn’t have in the past and may be you could see some better cross-selling and how long that might take to kick in? And then Sunit just may be an update on where you are - what the overall NOL number is give any color around that? Thanks.
Sure so the NOL number is $10.3 billion of U.S.
NOL.
And in general I think we’ve got a decent NOL position in EMEA.
Really the only place that we are incurring cash income taxes in Latin America mostly Brazil than any other place.
And then back to your revenue point I think that the cross-selling opportunities are there but we’ll see them happen more late in the year next year because both the sales forces are to be trained on the combined companies’ products and platforms as effective as Jeff said month.
Now every sales person knows what accounts they are covering.
So whether its - things like CDN services that we have collaboration services that we have or long-haul services being offered outside of the U.S.
to tw telecom’s base would be good.
Cross-selling opportunities similarly some of the smaller customers within the Level 3 on that building footprint would be good customers to sell to given the capabilities that tw telecom have in terms of callcenters to go focus on those segments.
So there’s quite a number of opportunities but we think that that will take few quarters to get going and we’ll probably start seeing - if we see the benefit of that we’ll probably be seeing more more next year or later this year is what I would say.
Jeff I don’t know if you’d want to add… I just add that you know if you look at things like ethernet services which is one of the fastest growing products or cloud solutions tw and Level 3 were the two leaders in those areas.
So for ethernet services we’ve been able to combine the capabilities that tw had with the capabilities of Level 3.
And that brings a lot to our ability to grow that market with those products and services.
If you look at constellation which was the cloud product that tw had been building and the Cloud Connect Solutions at Level 3 have we’ve been able to - we’re growing to be able to take the best capabilities of both of those and deliver a product in the service over a footprint that somewhat unmatched by anyone else in the industry.
And so some of those are the capabilities that make us - made us excited about the tw telecom acquisition late last fall that but it make us even more excited about them today as we see the real capabilities in it.
And now really what about revenue dissynergies from customer overlap at this point I know Global Crossing there was a little bit more of that? Yes on the Global Crossing side there were a lot of wholesale Internet providers that bought services from both Global and Level 3.
And that’s where you see those revenue dyssynergies.
We had a very little overlap in that area from tw telecom.
We have a lot of overlap from big wholesale customers that if they’re buying a local circuit from tw telecom in Atlanta and they’re buying something a local circuit from Level 3 in Dallas there is no real negative revenue synergies associated with that.
Great and congratulations on everything.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Lisa for Simon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Can you talk a little bit more about the competitive environment that you’re seeing and just how you’ve been seeing the recent booking trends given the - that you just closed the acquisition during the late last year? Thanks.
Sure so I think from a bookings perspective we are grappling with just constant common definition so that’s why we do make too much commentary on bookings.
I would say sales were a little softer in the fourth quarter some of that not too surprising given the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays.
And then I think that - I’m trying to think what’s the other part of your question Lisa… Sure [Multiple Speakers] For the comparative environment sorry.
So comparative environment I would say they continue to be consolidation currents going through.
So the comparative environment I would say is stable.
We’ve also seen rumors of - with Verizon and AT&amp;T with asset sales.
We’ll see what transpires there.
I think that in summary I would say the comparative environment is benign but obviously we have to guard and win business every day.
So you do have to be sharp but no big changes that we’re seeing in the environment.
Jeff? No and I think we like our competitive position.
If you look at the breath of our product portfolio we have everything from infrastructure services data center and [indiscernible] and fiber all the way up to CDN and DDoS protection and security services and managed services.
Across that spectrum it gives us the ability to solve each customer’s unique networking challenges and on a global basis.
And so we like that competitive position and think that very few other companies are really in a position to deliver for the full networking needs the customers have.
Great.
And I guess just in terms of you brought it up with the Verizon AT&amp;T asset sales do you have any opinions on kind of how that would play out? Yeah.
Other than what you read about in the papers and rumors I don’t...
Okay thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yes thank you for taking the questions.
I have a couple here.
First on integration at least relative to my expectations you’re running a little bit ahead on the synergy front.
Maybe you can comment on the achievement of synergies so far and your expectation for the shape of that during 2015.
Second on the combined-company ability to maybe address a different customer base maybe some early anecdotal evidence of the attractiveness of the combined Level 3 tw telecom based on larger footprint and improve financial strength.
Okay so on the synergies no I think the synergy that we reported are sort of in line because obviously in the first quarter you do get benefit at the senior management level you get a fair bit of benefit right there and most of them who are in the SG&amp;A side.
I think that the nature of where the synergies come from will change across the air.
We’ll start seeing a bigger contribution from network expense reductions or network access costs reductions over the course of the year.
And so different quarters you’ll see different levels of progress but I would say that so far the synergies we’re attaining are in line with what we expected.
From a different customer base I think that you’ll see on the tw telecom side we’ll tend to move up to larger customers then and maybe they focused on in the past.
If you think back they didn’t have a long-haul network really to sell and so when long-haul deals nationwide deals were in the mix they tended not to win those when there were global deals in the mix they tended not to win at all.
And probably didn’t even bid on many of those.
So we’ll see that side of our business move up market a little bit from customers.
If you look from the Level 3 side the customer base probably stays the same but our product capabilities improve.
If you look at the 30 000 buildings that tw telecom had we - and then very little overlap in those buildings with the Level 3.
We now have a bigger footprint to sell our products and services to those customers.
We know that when we sell on net it’s better margin for us it’s a better experience for the customer it’s easier for us to deliver services and maintain those services in a more reliable fashion than when we have to use off-net providers.
And I touched on some of the product benefits already with respect to constellation and the capabilities that brings us our CDN and the capabilities that brings to our other side of the tw telecom business… One quick clarification...
Sure.
One quick clarification I mean you highlighted that the revenue exposure around 20% international.
I think the real EBITDA exposure is around high single-digits is that correct? CapEx? Yes as I said it’s lower because of… Yes.
We are struck but yes.
So whatever impact we see on the revenue side is dampened quite significantly on the EBITDA side.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of James Moorman with D.
A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
First in fact to the integration of the sales force with the new sales assignment is there any - how much - or is there are any like areas where there is a big impact like a big shift where people kind of getting new customers or is it more of a minor type of things that we shouldn’t really see much of an impact from that? And then also on CDN revenue any comments about I know we won’t know anything more I guess possibly until tomorrow on the net neutrality but how that might potentially benefit your impact CDN going forward? Thanks.
Sure with respect to the sales impact and I’m going to give a broader statement.
We have a lot of change going on within our sales force and we are very aware of that.
And whether it’s the account moves or the compensation alignment or the new product set and product portfolio we are very aware that we have a lot of change going on.
And our leadership team is focused on making sure that we give the sales team what they need to be successful.
We’ve seen in my comment earlier on the churn we’ve seen that that’s working so far because that’s the first indicator.
If the sales person loses confidence in their ability to sell at Level 3 then they will leave us.
And if you look at our top performance churn churn is down and if we look at the average sales force the churn is about the same as it was prior to the acquisition.
And so we have a lot of change going on but we’re very confident about it and working very hard and very closely with the team to make sure that we are focused on the things that will drive our growth and drive our success in that integration.
With respect to net neutrality in CDN we’ll - let’s wait and see.
I don’t want to speculate too much on where things might go.
But in general we’re pleased that the regulators are recognizing that interconnection is a bigger part of net neutrality as anything else.
And we think that they’re moving in the right direction.
You’ve heard talk about dispute mechanisms if you have a dispute with a local monopoly provider where you can have a process for resolving some of these issues.
So we’ll see whether they turnout but generally the direction is positive for us.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks very much for getting me in.
So Sunit and Jeff I guess these free cash flow guidance implies that you should end the year with over $1 billion of cash it’s a nice thing to have.
And so I’m wondering with that much cash how you think about you’re targeted - of the target cash balance and even minimum cash balance and you were asked about the potential to refi bonds but you have with that cash you can actually pay down callable bonds with cash and then help reduce debt interest expense in that way.
So I am wondering if this could be a year where we actually just see actually debt reduction rather than refinancing.
Sure good question.
I mean I think we said for quite some time that we view cash balance of at least $500 million as like a minimum for us I think nothing has changed there.
Refinancing debt also cost money in terms of debt premiums and refinancing costs.
And we are using our cash to do that so that our debt outstanding does not go up.
I think you’ve seen that as a common thing we’ve done so I think that will continue.
And then as far as debt pay downs go we are not currently thinking of debt pay downs but it is a question we would have to think about in the context next year of what are the best ways to optimize free cash flow per share whether its debt pay downs or share buybacks or any other mechanisms.
So we would study that.
So that will be next year’s question to study.
This year we’re just focused on getting integrating tw telecom hitting on the synergies hitting our free cash flow targets.
And as we indicated our net debt-to-EBITDA target is at the low end of three to five times.
We think that a lot of that will come from adjusted EBITDA growth.
We do see strong EBITDA growth this year and also next year.
So I think that the combination of that should get us there even without any debt pay downs.
But it is an option for us and we have to look that compared to other options that we have.
And as I said this is for next year’s considerations.
Okay and then just a quick follow-up on business.
So in the North American segment you talked about the lower growth rate versus last year and some of the reasons.
What are you seeing on the wholesale side from career consolidation? I know in the past there is a lag effect often so when your careers consolidate particularly in the wireless space it takes a while for that traffic to get migrated off.
Is there still headwinds from that or you are seeing the end of that? So a couple of points I think last year was a decent year on the wholesale side for us in North America.
We didn’t see some of those impacts you are talking about.
Some of that also remember we didn’t have consolidation in the wireless sector.
And there is couple of things right now in front of the government for approval.
We’ll see how those transpire.
But I think stepping back away from all of this Jeff says that and I’ll say that this also which is we expect to see our growth come from the enterprise segment over time.
The wholesale business in general we see as kind of declining slightly every year.
Now in any particular good year it’s tough to predict.
So what happens for all the reasons that you’ve mentioned that we’ve talked about and I would say that this year is not different from any other year with that - from that perspective.
But we think the wholesale segment is a very valuable segment for us.
It gives us a lot of scale demanding customers that make us better provider our services but having said that where all our growth is going to be coming is from the enterprise segment over the next years.
Correct that’s it.
Okay thanks very much.
Sure.
I think we have one question left on the call.
So operator let’s do the last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Hi guys thanks for squeezing me in.
I’ve got two EMEA questions one for Jeff one for Sunit.
For Jeff I realize its early days.
The permanent leadership has only been in place for few months.
But I was wondering if you could talk a bit about some of the specific changes you’re starting to make over there.
And I guess more importantly your confidence and your ability to materially improve that segment’s performance over the next few years.
And then for Sunit recognizing that you’re focused on tw telecom right now you’ve mentioned in the past that M&amp;A in Europe could be attractive.
Does the strength of the dollar make deals more pealing or you think the transactions particularly in local currency in which case it’s not relevant consideration.
Sure I’ll start and - actually Sunit you do your course.
Sure.
So with respect to M&amp;A in Europe I think as we’ve said in the past we have been - our history has been built on acquisition.
We’re pretty much focused on tw integration.
Right now we think M&amp;A in Europe continues to be an interesting landscape.
And yes while the dollar has strengthened its a consideration remember that any business we might look to buy there will be denominated in euros or sterling or both currencies.
So I think we continued to be interested it’s tough to predict when and how and if something will happen.
But as Jeff has mentioned in the past and as I have we think that our business is not at the level of skill that we’d like it to be.
And over time we will look for opportunities there.
Our near term focus is tw telecom integration.
With respect to EMEA I will go into a lot of the specific changes that Andrew is making but he is making changes in the sales organization for enterprise he’s making changes in the strategy organization the product organizations and continuing to look at how we serve our customers over there and improving our operations in all of the different things.
If you look at Andrew’s background just for a minute few years ago he ran our wholesale business.
Sunit talked about the North America wholesale performance this year.
If you look at the challenge in EMEA wholesale has been a big challenge for us in the last year.
And so Andrew’s ability and proven track record of working with wholesale customers and understanding the wholesale business and delivering in wholesale result is something that I have high confidence in.
If you look at where we’re making progress in EMEA but we wanted to be better is on our enterprise.
We made good progress in selling to enterprise customers last year but we think we can do better.
And if you look at Andrew’s background and history over the last couple of years in running North America we made tremendous progress and our ability to sell to enterprise customers.
And so looking at Andrew and his background and the track record that he brings I’m very confident in our ability to do some of the things that we’ve talked about.
When it comes to the UK government I have less confidence and soon it reflected that in our outlook.
And I think that has much to do with the buying pattern of the UK government.
We thought a couple of years ago that they were going to change the way they bought and bought by pieces from different carriers it turns out that they tend to buy full breadth solutions including a whole bunch of things that we don’t do.
They want to have full solutions from some of their providers.
And so I think there’s less opportunity for Andrew to make a huge difference in the UK government but if you look at what we’ve done in North America and again Andrew is responsible - was a key driver in what we’ve done with the U.S.
government.
We’ve been very successful at getting into the business starting small and growing and growing and growing our importance to the customer.
And so I think that we’ll continue to do that.
If you look at our network and our capabilities in Europe we have a good network.
We have good capabilities.
We’re continuing to introduce products and standardizing those products.
And so I think that we have good opportunities in Europe and again one of the three key priorities for our company this year is to make sure that that we live up to our potential.
I want to - before we end the call I’d like to leave you all with a few thoughts.
We are highly focused on the successful integration of tw telecom.
We’re focused on improving our performance in EMEA and believe that we have the right leader in place and the right team in place to drive the results.
We’ve reached the transformational point in our company’s history in terms of free cash flow generation.
And while 2015 is somewhat of a transitional year we expect to significantly improve free cash flow and we remain focused on driving profitable growth and free cash flow per share.
We look forward to the successful 2015 and sharing our results with you over the coming quarters.
And as always we really appreciate your questions and your interest in Level 3.
Operator this concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We would like to thank everyone for your participation and for using the Level 3 conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call for today.
We ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.