Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kendall and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Steve Golsby our CEO; and Pete Leemputte our CFO.
Before we get started let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K for 2010 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q current reports on Form 8-K and registration statements in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some time in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
Given that we are in the midst of the earnings reporting season we will be respectful of your time and keep our call to 45 minutes.
I will now turn to Steve -- the call over to Steve.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
Well 2011 is off to a great start.
As you have likely read in our press release in the first quarter sales of $900 million grew by 18% or 15% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This is the highest quarterly growth recorded for many years and is testimony to our strategy.
Our growth was led by the strength of our business in emerging markets but also by improved performance in the U.S.
In addition strong gross margins the timing of demand-generation investments and the slightly lower tax rate versus 2010 each contributed to impressive financial results.
The fundamental drivers in our strategy and operations have not changed so I'll keep my comments brief and only address key highlights.
Sales for the Asia/Latin America markets grew at a rate of 27% or 22% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This segment now accounts for over 64% of sales up from 60% in the first quarter of 2010.
This exceptional performance was led by China and Hong Kong where sales grew well in excess of our segment average and where we continue to see gains in market share.
I recently took several secondary cities in China that we have entered by our systematic step change program.
As you may recall this step change program expands our direct presence into more cities with a full complement of advertising and promotional support and the addition of medical and trade sales staff.
At year end 2010 we had a direct presence in 193 cities and intend to expand into at least another 50 this year.
I traveled to both the western and eastern regions of China and was struck by the rapid development of world-class infrastructure and by the obvious strength of economic activity.
We visited several leading hospitals and visited many retail outlets including branches of international chains.
The category in which Mead Johnson competes is growing very strongly in all of these cities and our own brands are performing well ahead of expectations.
While the step change program expands our geographic footprint we are pleased that 80% of our growth continues to come from cities where we had a full presence in the prior year quarter.
Our brand equity science and product quality geographic footprint expansion and strong execution have all contributed to Mead Johnson achieving market share leadership in China/Hong Kong and we continue to believe that significant growth will be sustained for many years.
While China is our largest business outside the U.S.
I want to highlight that nearly all of our Latin America markets posted double-digit growth.
In the North America/Europe segment both reported and constant dollar sales grew by 5%.
Sales in the U.S.
increased at a rate above the segment average but were partially offset by lower sales in Europe distorted by our transition to a new distribution model.
We're very pleased with the strong U.S.
performance as it was largely driven by higher market share from product and packaging innovation as well as a benefit from a competitor's product recall last September.
We've seen encouraging support from consumers healthcare professionals and the retail trade for our patented newborn infant formula our Dual Prebiotic plan and the new packaging system comprised of a plastic tub with a refill value box.
Keep in mind that year-over-year share comparisons will get tougher in the second half of 2011 since our key competitor is back on shelf and we will lose the benefit of the parents who switched to Enfamil last fall as their babies age out of the category.
Additionally we continue to be pressured by the lower birth rate and reduced consumption in the U.S.
The most recent WIC data that shows that the number of infants participating in the program continues to fall.
On a full year basis our sales in the U.S.
are expected to grow slightly as higher market share offsets these downward pressures on the category.
For the full year we now anticipate constant dollar global sales growth of around 10% based on our strong performance in the quarter particularly in emerging markets with non-GAAP EPS in the range of $2.62 to $2.70 per share.
EPS in the remaining quarters of the year will be lower on average than the first quarter reflecting headwinds from higher dairy costs and increased operating expenses.
Advertising and promotion spending ran at a low level in the first quarter due to the phasing of key activities.
So much of the planned increase in operating expense is yet to come.
We will continue to invest in our strong momentum and look for additional growth opportunities in our priority markets.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete to provide you further highlights and will return to wrap up and take your questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Let me add a few more details on our Q1 financial results.
The 15% increase in constant dollar sales was comprised of 4% from pricing and volume gains of 11%.
As has been the case for many quarters all of the price growth came from our Asia/Latin America segment.
We took increased pricing in select markets during the quarter and also realized the carryover of inflationary increases taken in other markets during the second half of last year.
Volume gains of 15% in the Asia/Latin America segment were very broad-based across most markets while the 5% in North America/Europe was largely driven by the strength of our U.S.
business.
Note that about 2 points of our Asia/Latin America sales growth was due to snow-related delivery delays in China late last December.
That moved sales recognition from the fourth quarter to the current quarter.
For the company in total that was equivalent to just over one point of sales growth or about $0.02 per share in added earnings.
Keep in mind that sales comparisons are significantly easier in the first half of this year.
Over the first 6 months of 2010 we delivered constant dollar sales growth of 5% jumping to 13% in the second half.
As a result our full year sales growth estimate of around 10% for 2011 is below the 15% delivered in the first quarter.
Note that we currently expect about a 1/3-2/3 split between pricing and volume for the full year.
Turning to foreign exchange we expect currency fluctuation to add about 2 points to sales growth for the full year.
However we won't see any benefit to our bottom line.
In fact foreign exchange movement adversely affected our bottom line in the first quarter.
The dollar fell slightly or was flat against most currencies over the last 3 months.
In general a weakening dollar increased the sales and earnings.
One of the key exceptions is the euro where we have costs which exceed revenues.
Our business in Europe is relatively small and most of the capacity for our Dutch plant is exported to Asia.
As a result of this sharp position earnings drop when the dollar weakens against the euro and that was the scenario we faced in the first quarter as the dollar fell by 6%.
This factor coupled with the devaluation of the Vietnam dong resulted in a balance sheet remeasurement that reduced pretax earnings by over $8 million or $0.03 per share.
Note that the impact is evident in other expenses on our income statement.
Gross margins came in at 64.4% for the first quarter flat with the prior year and up 210 basis points from the fourth quarter.
We saw a temporary benefit in our cost of goods sold from lower dairy spot prices in the third quarter of last year.
As a reminder there is a natural lag of about 7 months before spot price fluctuations show up in our product costs reflecting pricing mechanisms in supply contracts in our normal inventory turns.
We are facing higher dairy prices in our cost of goods sold for the rest of the year and that will bring full year gross margins to give or take 63.3%.
That's a drop of about 20 basis points versus our prior guidance which anticipated average 2011 gross margins of 63.5%.
Over the last 3 months we have seen global dairy prices continue to increase.
They have stabilized a bit in the last month but we will continue to watch commodity costs closely and take our own pricing actions where appropriate.
Operating expenses were 37.9% from the first quarter below the 39.5% anticipated for the full year largely from timing of advertising and promotion spend.
A&amp;P can vary significantly quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of product launches or promotional campaigns.
A&amp;P stood at 12.4% in Q1 160 basis points below the 14% expected for the full year.
As Steve mentioned we will continue to maintain A&amp;P and sales force spending as a percentage of sales in line with our higher sales growth.
We use this as an opportunity to help fuel additional demand generation investments.
This factor coupled with the FX balance sheet remeasurement spend mentioned earlier will keep full year operating expenses at our January projection of 39.5%.
Our effective tax rate or ETR came in at 29.4% down from 31% in the first quarter of 2010.
Please note that we previously expected the full year rate to range from 28% to 29%.
We now believe that we'll be at or slightly above 29% as our earnings mix has shifted toward markets that carry higher ETRs.
Compared to the midpoint of our prior range the increased tax rate reduces 2011 earnings by $0.03 per share.
Pulling all this information together we now expect 2011 earnings to range from $2.62 to $2.70 per share up from the $2.55 to $2.65 anticipated 3 months ago.
Stronger sales growth in emerging markets is the key driver partially offset by the impact of higher dairy costs foreign exchange higher investments for sustainable growth and a slight increase in our effective tax rate.
Finally our cash balance stood at $709 million up from $596 million in December.
That strong performance given that we repurchased 400 000 shares in the quarter consuming $24 million of cash.
Although the timing and amount of future share repurchases may vary our program is designed to help reduce the dilutive impact of employee equity awards.
When coupled with the 16% increase in our quarterly dividends we are returning a meaningful portion of our free cash flow to shareholders.
For the full year capital spending and depreciation and amortization expense are expected to be about $125 million and $75 million respectively.
With that let me now turn the call back to Steve.
Thank you Pete.
We have marked our second year anniversary of being an independent company and as you can read in our annual report we are growing stronger every day.
I'm happy to announce that we will host an Investor Day on October 13 in Chicago.
Kathy will be sending out further details in the near future.
In closing I would like to thank and acknowledge the efforts of all of our Mead Johnson colleagues around the globe who continue to deliver strong performance.
We will now be pleased to take your questions.
To give everyone an opportunity to participate we request that you ask just one question and if necessary a follow-up and then we will pass it along to the next person in the queue.
Operator please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I actually wanted to ask a question about emerging markets.
Have you seen any cases or do you have any concern about the potential for price controls to perhaps be implemented in any of the markets in which you compete? Thank you Ed.
There are a couple of markets in Asia namely Thailand and Vietnam where some price control exists.
I think that clearly your question is likely focused on China and what may happen there.
We -- the Chinese government currently is very much focused on quality and food safety but are also aware of the risk of food inflation and there are some food categories that they are putting under control or under watch.
That does not at this point in time include infant formula.
We're not immune to these sensitivities and we have to be watchful as we consider taking further price increases.
But there have never been any price controls that have materialized in China and we don't expect that to be the case in the near future.
LLC</strong> And then just one quick follow up I guess for Pete.
You mentioned that the full year operating expense guidance is still at 39.5% of sales and I understand that you're spending on A&amp;P but I was wondering why we might not see a little bit more leverage on the MS&amp;A line? Sure Ed.
The one other point there as I mentioned we had about $8 million in foreign exchange losses the balance sheet remeasurement related with the Vietnamese dong and more importantly with the weakening of the dollar against the euro and that's the other key factor driving there.
And I think too given the strong performance of the company it's not just A&amp;P dollars but also sales force investments and maybe some other marketing investments that we intend to make.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
I wanted to follow up here on the Asian and Latin American segment in the volume comments.
Could you maybe spend a little bit more time to understand to help us understand the 15% volume growth number? I think you called out 2 points of a shipment differential so then that would put perhaps the ongoing run rate or maybe an honest organic rate if I could say it like that at 13%.
Still when I look back over the course of '09 and '10 quarterly data we just don't see anything this strong and I'm just trying to understand whether this is a sustainable issue whether this is onetime in nature? Steve how can you dimensionalize this for us? I'll come back to that in a second Dave.
I'll just let Pete explain the numbers and then I'll give a comment.
Sure.
That 15% that you reference for volume for Asia/Latin America is what we reported.
We had about 2 points of it.
That was due to the fact that there was some heavy snow particularly in Eastern and Northern China in late December and we had a lot of goods that had been shipped but had not been yet received and we didn't recognize the sales on that until the first quarter.
So that's 2 points of it.
In addition David there was one other factor I would point out.
In Venezuela you may recall on January 1 2010 the government devalued the currency significantly and put in some new controls.
And as result of that dislocation plus the fact that we were transitioning product registrations down there from BMS to Mead Johnson our sales were abnormally light in the first quarter of last year.
That added about another full point to sales growth in the quarter.
So absent those it's probably closer to 12.
The other thing I would point out is keep in mind if you looked at the quarterly sales from 2010 we did see that very significant increase and this was true not only in the United States but also -- in North America/Europe but also in Asia/Latin America.
So the comparisons are just a bit easier this quarter than I think they have been.
That doesn't belie the fact that we had very very good performance in the year in terms of volume growth in Asia/Latin America but it's just an easier comparison as well.
And David I would just add a couple of things.
We're clearly not growing market share in every country in which we operate.
This is a highly competitive industry and we face challenges just like any other business.
But over our top 11 country aggregate we've outpaced the category growth every quarter since November 2008.
A lot of the volume growth clearly comes from China and Hong Kong and it would be difficult to say that we're going to continue to see category growth and market share gains of this magnitude consistently although that will clearly be our aim.
But we are also seeing very strong volume growth right across Latin America and in a number of other Asian markets.
So we're very confident in the revised guidelines the growth guidelines that we issued to you this morning.
Very clear.
Thanks for all the color on the numerics and the qualitative commentary.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry Bivens with JPMorgan.
Just two quick questions on China.
The effects if any of the Japanese nuclear accident has that helped your consumption in China? And the other thing Steve there has been some talk that the Chinese government might allow a one-time upward revaluation of the RMB [renminbi].
I'd like to get your take on that if I might.
I'll take the first one Terry.
Firstly let me add to comments that many CEOs have made and send out sympathies to all those affected by the disaster in Japan.
We do not have operations there and don't intend to have.
We are seeing some small benefit from this disaster.
As a consequence of the fact that the Japanese manufacturers of infant formula and growing-up milks had a market position in Hong Kong and in parts of China.
And clearly they are facing some supply interruptions and facing some erosion of consumer confidence and we would expect to pick up our fair share.
But it is not a significant factor either in our results or in our guidance.
And Pete I'll pass the revaluation comment over to you.
There is some buzz out there that that may indeed happen.
It's just buzz as far as I'm concerned at this point in time and we have seen roughly a 3.5% 4% strengthening of the RMB over the last year if you look at the first quarter 2011 versus 2010.
And one thing I would point out is if it indeed happens it would be beneficial to our bottom line in terms of our dollar reported financials.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Steve I just wanted to ask you your commentary two things struck me one you just seem to have a very bullish trip through China; and then two you prefaced the 50 cities this year with at least.
So I'm just wondering if on the margin there's any sort of acceleration in your plans to expand in China? We haven't made a decision at this point to go beyond the 50 cities this year.
But with the momentum that we've reported today we'll clearly be looking for additional opportunities to invest and we'll certainly be talking to our general management team in China to see whether they feel that they would be able to execute flawlessly in a greater number of cities.
Well as you know they take a very disciplined approach to that and we will not expand that number unless we're absolutely confident of our ability to be successful in all the cities in which we operate.
You're right I am -- I was struck in my visit.
I spent many years living in Asia I've been to China more than 50 times but I haven't been to a number of these so-called secondary cities.
And I was absolutely struck not only by their size by the quality of infrastructure by the obvious economic activity but also by the rapid momentum of the international brands in our category and most particularly of course our own brands.
Not surprisingly parents in those cities aspire just as parents in the bigger cities they aspire for their children to be successful in life and nutrition plays a critical role in that.
And they are rapidly entering the middle class and therefore are able to afford our product for the several years.
So I was reassured that our strategy was right and I was also reassured that our confidence in sustainable growth was well-placed.
So maybe just as a follow-up is it fair to say that there's some opportunity to go modestly beyond the 50 cities this year but you might be thinking about accelerating penetration in the out years and you might need to think about whether you up the size of the overall investment and maybe staffing and so forth? Or am I...
I thank that's fair Vincent yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Can I just ask it's very hard to get data out of China on industry growth rates and you said I think you said you were exceeding the industry growth rate.
Can you talk a little bit about how quickly the category is growing in China and how you're growing in comparison? And then I guess the kind of follow-up would be we'd have some more milk scares in China recently and certainly sort of broad-based food safety issues with the noodles in Southern China and the problems in their pork industry.
So I just think the consumer there is sort of more -- even more focused on food safety.
So can you just talk about your positioning as a multinational and importing product and how you expect that to play over time? Do you expect multinationals to continue to outpace the rest of the category? The first part of the question Diane Nielsen reported that the category grew by around 10% in the first quarter and we told you that our business grew above the rate of the segment.
So clearly that validates the market share growth that I've referred to.
Not everybody is growing at that pace.
Secondly you know the government is as you rightly say concerned to ensure quality and food safety in this category above all others.
And there have been reports of a number of small local dairies losing their licenses as a consequence of the audits from the quality inspections that are taking place.
I'm pleased to report that we have passed all of those quality inspections with flying colors and are investing at unprecedented levels globally including in China to further ensure the very very high standards of quality and food safety that we operate to.
And as you know we do not use locally-sourced dairy raw materials in our products in China and do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Just a couple questions.
One is you mentioned that advertising is probably going to go up as the year goes on.
We had assumed 14.5% of sales as kind of a normal run rate but I'm starting to see them a little bit high.
Can you give us an order of magnitude of what to expect for the year for advertising? And then second you mentioned that market share gains you don't want to bet on the fact that they keep going up.
But can you talk a little bit more about what have you been doing in these markets to drive those gains? What would make those gains kind of sustainable? Is it investment in direct to professional selling or is it advertising? Or I think -- and is that the guidance that those gains are sustainable or not? Sure Rob.
With regard to the question the first question on the A&amp;P spending levels for the year we continue to expect it's going to run 14% for the full year.
So we came in at 12.4% in the first quarter we'll be running at a rate above that then in the next 3 quarters on average in order to hit that full year rate.
I'll try and keep my answer brief because you could talk about this for a long period but what we call the influence model of the 3-pillar demand creation strategy of direct-to-consumer through the healthcare professional and in partnership with retailers and pharmacies.
That model is dynamic and it varies from market-to-market that influence is not consistent everywhere.
And so we're constantly changing and improving the model in every market in which we do business.
But there's no one headline that I can give you.
In China where we're recording the highest market share gains it's a highly competitive category.
We certainly will seek to try and maintain this type of momentum but we can't guarantee it.
What we are focused on is excellence and execution.
Our proposition resonates with parents.
Our advertising is very compelling.
We're investing at competitive levels.
We have very good partnerships with retailers and it's really that blocking and tackling every day that is behind our strong performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Just a question on the Asia/Latin America segment.
If I just did some -- I did some back-of-the-envelope math and it seems to me if you exclude foreign exchange you had about $100 million of incremental revenue in that segment in the quarter and about 1/2 of that would have come from China.
Is that in terms of magnitude in terms of its contribution to the growth is that about right? It was obviously a very big driver of it.
I don't think we want to get into any more specifics than that but order of magnitude you're not out of line.
Okay and then just connected to that could you give us some color about the rest of the markets in the segments? And maybe directionally which ones are improving and which ones aren't? And just trying to get an idea once we get outside of China what else is happening within that segment? Sure.
We continue to see very very strong growth throughout Latin America.
Mexico delivered double-digit growth which is quite impressive when you consider the fact that half of the business there is milk modifiers our Choco Milk and Cal-C-Tose brands which that segment is not growing for any practical purposes.
So we're growing very very heavily with our Enfa brand there not only infant formula but also the growing-up milks.
The rest of Latin America performed superbly.
Great growth in Brazil.
When we look at Central America Peru Columbia Ecuador very very very strong double-digit growth.
And then in Asia I would also say markets of particular note in terms of growth were Malaysia and Singapore.
Singapore's a bit small but very very strong performance there.
Probably the markets where there's --  they're a bit more challenged I would say tend to be the ones that and this is not new information but more price-sensitive markets.
So the Philippines in particular we sell a premium brand in Enfa.
We have a mid-tier brand in Lactum.
But really the growth that's occurring in that market is occurring all even outside the categories where we compete so full cream milk or filled milk which are less nutritious substitutes for the products that we would sell.
That segment of the market which is lower-priced than where we compete had tended to grow quite rapidly at the expense of declines for where we do compete.
So a little tougher comparisons for the Philippines there although we are picking up share for -- particularly for our Enfa brand in that market.
And then just India just how much progress are you making there? Well the percentage growth is fantastic.
It's still off a relatively low base.
But we're pleased with the progress that we're making there.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to focus on the U.S.
segment.
We've seen continued decline in fertility rates in the U.S.
and fertility rates are declining at the fastest pace in the last 30 years.
Now given that and given pretty benign competitive environment over the last few quarters can you give us an outlook on category volumes here? And also what gives you the confidence for positive growth in the U.S.
business? Well let me try and answer that Amit.
We are not confident in the volume growth in the category.
What we've seen over the last couple of years -- I know you've been following us for a relatively short period of time.
What we've seen is that a significant reduction in the birth rate in the United States over a 2- 3-year period and a reduction in consumption driven by reform in the WIC Program and by the weak economic conditions.
What we're reporting today and have been talking about for a couple of quarters now is our market share growth within that weaker market driven primarily by our innovations and by our improved demand creation activities but also benefiting from the competitive recall back last September.
So what we've referenced this morning is continued pessimism if you like about the category.
We do not expect births to start to rise again at least until 2012 potentially even later.
But we are determined to continue to maintain a strong market share in the category so that when the birth rate does recover as it will we are in the strongest possible position.
We're largely dependent on competing within a lower-volume category and we often get a question on price.
So I will make just one comment on price.
We did announce to the retail channel yesterday that we will be taking a price increase in the United States on our core routine products later this year.
We have not taken a price increase for several years and clearly we've introduced a number of product improvements since then and seen commodity costs continue to rise.
But through our advertising and promotional programs we will make sure that we're continuing to drive demand and that we are competitive.
I would just add to that the price increase would not be until later in the year.
So you're not going to see that big a financial impact with regard to the numbers this year.
And if I may ask what is the degree of the price increase that you're going to take? 4% Amit.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Steve you talked about the potential for improving mix in Brazil moving from growing up milks to infant formula.
Is there any progress to report there and how specifically did Brazil perform? Brazil continues to perform very well and we have very high expectations for the market and for our brands within it.
I'd like to correct your statement and I hope I didn't misinform what we're expecting and indeed are seeing is a conversion from standard milk or full cream milk powder.
We're seeing a conversion from that to infant formula and more nutritious growing-up milk as parents have more access to money more access to nutritional information through their healthcare professional and we expect that to continue.
More women going into the workforce.
All of these trends these demographic trends will drive the growth of the category and we're investing to make sure we grow share.
Excluding all the sort of inventory adjustments and foreign exchange adjustments and so on we're growing consistently in double digits in Brazil and are confident in continuing to do so.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess with the growth that you're seeing is there any I guess bias now to likely spend the extra capital a couple of hundred million dollars on your own dryers? It just seems that with that kind of volume growth and the share gains that that's a more likely event? It's something we continue to look at.
As we talked about in February at the CAGNY [Consumer Analyst Group of New York] Meeting for those that may have not listened in we talked about the fact we are considering building a new spray dryer in Asia.
We're also looking and continue to look at third-party manufacturing and that's a decision that we would probably make at this point in time in the fourth quarter of the year.
Obviously good growth this quarter helps us in our decision to build but I would say one quarter is not going to necessarily influence the decision favorably or unfavorably at this point and we'll let you know as soon as we hear.
And I guess for just as a follow-up on that for modeling purposes for this year and I don't know if you care to comment on next year but CapEx and D&amp;A kind of where is the bias? Would you say [Audio Gap] that in 2012? I think if you look at our spending for this year the $125 million I thank that's a pretty good estimate at this point in time for the full year.
You could go up $5 million to $10 million or down too depending on the specific projects we do.
If we do build the spray dryer the total cost would for new infrastructure to accompany that sprayer dryer in whatever market we choose to do that but if we build it would cost roughly $300 million.
And the spend for that would probably take place over a 2- maybe 2.5-year period that sort of timeframe.
So that would be added on top of the base that we have.
Would also point out though too that this year we have spending and it's still not insignificant although down from 2010 for our SAP implementation which the base I would say spend for the company is probably closer to $100 million at this point in time.
So that new spray dryer would be on top of that.
Your last question is a follow-up from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
I wanted to direct my question to Steve on the United States trends.
When we're looking at Nielsen data I'm not sure how to make sense out of this.
We see pricing for Enfamil up over 7% yet in the quarter you report no pricing within that North American/European segment.
And then furthermore when I look at the competitors particularly Nestlé we see that they're kind of holding prices flat and they seem to be getting a big benefit from the Similac recall much larger than your benefit.
So I'm trying to triangulate here what's going on.
It feels like the retailers are perhaps taking advantage of you a little bit and it pushes their pricing up to get better profitability and the volume benefits by and large are going to Nestlé from Abbott's problems.
Do I have it correct or is there something else happening? I don't think you have it correct but I can understand why it's sort of difficult to understand from the Nielsen data.
And I'll ask Pete to try and attempt briefly to address that but I suspect in your follow-up calls you'll need to get down into the weeds on it because it is quite complicated.
Yes I would say the way Nielsen tends to go through and calculate what's pricing and what's volume from a value if you're looking at the dollars they go through and do a calculation on what is the reconstituted volume of the product and quite frankly their methodology is flawed.
They will treat 8 liquid ounces of equivalent with 8 powder ounces.
And so that is not -- we have not raised pricing at all.
Part of what goes through there as well too is we do have a favorable product mix coming in the U.S.
And that while our routine business is doing exceptionally strong we also are seeing very good growth with our solutions products essentially it's the partially hydrolyzed formula which carries a higher price point associated with it too.
So that is part of what they have in their numbers.
And definitely with regard to the market share data we have Nielsen cover it a different way for us.
We do believe that Nestle got its fair share of market share after the Abbott recall they didn't get any more than that and I think some of the latest data that we've seen would suggest that maybe that's dropped off just a tad.
But they have not disproportionately benefited from it.
Hopefully that helps you.
Then there was also of course David WIC impacts in there.
And you may already know that among the contracts that came up this year New York Mead Johnson retained the milk contract and was awarded the soy contract.
And effective October this year we've just been informed that Mead Johnson has been awarded the contract for their -- what's called the Neato Consortium [ph] in the Northeast and Atlantic states which is previously held by Nestlé.
So with that I will close the call and once again thank you for your interest in the company and we look forward to talking with you further.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.