Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition third quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Grant and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Grant and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's third quarter conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind at our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on this morning's call.
Before I turn the call over to Pete who will provide some additional perspectives on our financial results and expectations for the remainder of the year let me outline our operating performance in the third quarter.
And after Pete's comments I'll then wrap up with some brief summary comments before we take questions.
In totality we are very pleased with our third quarter results.
As you likely read in this morning's press release sales growth was 16% on a constant-dollar basis and non-GAAP earnings grew at an even faster rate of 28% to $0.91 per share up from $0.71 in the third quarter of 2012.
A couple of noteworthy unusual items however need to be kept in mind when assessing our performance this quarter.
Firstly as we reduced our distributor inventory in China in the third quarter of 2012 this positively impacted our revenue growth this quarter by 4 points.
Secondly pricing gains realized in Venezuela and Argentina merely offset currency depreciation and high inflation and contributed a further 1.5 to 2 points to our reported constant-dollar sales growth.
Strong sales growth in every region along with higher gross margins allowed us to continue to invest at near record levels in demand generation.
Pete will cover gross margin in more detail shortly.
He will describe how higher manufacturing volumes and associated efficiencies combined with improved pricing and productivity to strengthen our margin.
The significant rise we've seen in dairy prices earlier this year will begin to impact our gross margin in the next quarter.
Hence the 65% gross margin seen in the third quarter will not be sustained and we expect margins to return to historical levels over the coming months.
Advertising and promotional spending stood at levels near 16% of sales again this quarter which brings the year-to-date investments to over 15% of revenue a full percentage point above last year's average and we are making significant investments in both our operating segments.
With that let me now turn to the performance of our 2 segments and firstly to the Asia/Latin America segment.
This segment delivered constant-dollar sales growth of 21% in the quarter.
Higher pricing accounted for 4% of sales growth volumes were up 17% with our business in China/Hong Kong as the most significant contributor.
We are very satisfied with our third quarter results and they were supported by continued market share gains across most of our emerging markets.
As referenced earlier there were 2 other unusual factors positively impacting growth this quarter.
Let me repeat and expand a little on these.
Firstly in the second half 2012 we corrected inventory levels in China to match a fall in market share that time.
This base year effect boosted our segment growth in this quarter by 5 percentage points and the quarter was further helped by competitor recalls in China which positively impacted our market share in the latter part of the quarter.
Secondly price increases reflective of the high inflation environment in Venezuela and Argentina contributed 2 points to the segment in the quarter.
As mentioned these price increases merely offset the effect of rapidly depreciating currencies.
Please note we don't see this impact on our sales growth when reporting in U.S.
dollars as these prices -- as these price increases are offset by the depreciation of the bolívar and the peso respectively.
There's been a lot of news out of China/Hong Kong in recent months and I'd like to offer a few additional perspectives.
Starting with Hong Kong.
Despite the solid -- the export restrictions put in place in March we continued to see solid volume growth versus prior year.
We expect export restrictions to remain in place for now with a review possible sometime after Chinese New Year 2014.
In the Mainland China market the new government is actively focusing on improving food safety.
A number of changes in regulatory requirements are being contemplated.
Our products meet all standards issued to-date and we'll continue to assess any changes necessitated by new regulations.
Though changes to regulations may bring short-term challenges we believe this is a net positive for the industry and will ultimately benefit the stronger science and qualitative -- quality-oriented participants.
I'm sure you in recent months have seen a number of new stories regarding medical marketing practices in China.
I do not want to comment on specific competitor's approaches to this area though I will be happy to take questions on the broader industry environment.
In our 10-Q filed earlier today we note we have ourselves initiated an internal investigation to determine in particular expenditures that were made in connection with the promotion of the company's products by ours Chinese subsidiary or other payments that may have been made may not fully have complied with our policies or applicable U.S.
and local laws.
We're undertaking this exercise voluntarily and in support of an SEC request for certain documents in line with best practice.
And to ensure impartiality we've asked external counsel to lead this investigation and we've established a subcommittee of our Board to oversee the exercise.
There are no findings or conclusions at this time.
And as the review is ongoing you'll understand that we are unable to provide further details.
We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards within the company and to this end are continuously seeking to improve operating standards across the world.
This includes China where we are supportive of government efforts to ensure ethical conduct across all industries.
To wrap up my comments on China I'd like to say we remained bullish about our long-term growth prospects in this important market.
GDP growth remains strong exceeding 7.5% according to the latest reports.
The middle class continues to grow rapidly with women entering the workforce in record numbers.
These factors remain the key growth drivers for our industry as well as for Mead Johnson.
To highlight the strengths and diversity of our business let me now spend a moment on other markets in the Asia/Latin America segment.
These other markets account for 40% of our total sales approximately.
South Asia delivered low double-digit sales growth in the third quarter on strong volume gains.
We have particularly strong performance in Thailand and Malaysia Singapore where we posted market share gains.
In Latin America we again delivered strong double-digit growth that was broad-based.
Growth in South America was particularly strong led by continued progress in Brazil where we are rapidly building our infant formula share.
Further our new business in Argentina also continues to achieve the plan that underpinned our decision to acquire it.
And market shares across the Indian region remain strong and in most cases growing as these markets are all experiencing category expansion.
And we will continue to post significant growth in revenue here.
Our strong performance in the third quarter has led us to raise our revenue expectation for the segment.
Constant-dollar sales through the end of September are up by 12%.
And we expect to end 2013 with growth at or slightly above that level.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe operating segments.
Constant-dollar sales grew by 2% in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of businesses we discontinued in 2012 the North America/Europe segment grew by 6% compared to prior year.
Pricing was up 2% and volume increased 4%.
Volume growth was largely driven by continued share gains.
Category consumption continued to decline as breastfeeding rates again grew in an environment of stubbornly high unemployments.
Strong gross margins have allowed us to reinvest in advertising and promotion.
We plan to showcase some of these investment areas at our upcoming Investor Day in early November.
In the latest quarter we made further progress in the U.S.
with both our ready-to-drink liquids offerings and our Enfagro product for toddlers.
Year-to-date segment EBIT margin was up by 360 basis points to 21.8% driven by higher gross margins from pricing productivity and manufacturing efficiencies.
The improvement in European profitability was particularly noteworthy.
This follows significant restructuring done over the past 12 months.
We still expect constant-dollar sales for North America and Europe to be down slightly for the full year.
However excluding discontinued businesses we expect our continuing core business to grow in the low-single digits.
This is consistent with our prior outlook.
In summary and commenting now on our global performance I'm very pleased with the results we announced this morning even with growth boosted 4 points by the previously referenced 2012 China inventory correction our underlying sales performance was still strong.
We currently expect reported revenue growth in the 7% to 8% range for the full year 2013.
Excluding the businesses that we exited last year core growth will be in the 9% to 10% range on a constant-dollar basis.
This is 100 to 200 basis points higher than our previous guidance and slightly ahead of our year-to-date growth rate.
As a result of stronger than expected revenue growth we are raising non-GAAP EPS guidance for the full year to between $3.30 to $3.37.
This is up from our previously indicated range of $3.22 to $3.30.
Excluding the $0.07 in one-time tax benefits we had in 2012 this would represent EPS growth of 10% to 12% over prior year.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial analysis.
And I'll then return with some closing remarks before we field your questions.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll provide a bit more color on our third quarter results as well as our expectations as we close out the remainder of the year.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials unless I note otherwise.
I'll wrap up with a few observations on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Reported sales grew by 14% with 16% growth on a constant-dollar basis as Kasper detailed reduced by a 2% decline from foreign exchange.
The U.S.
dollar strengthened against many of the currencies in South Asia and in Latin America most notably the Venezuelan bolivar the Argentine peso the Brazilian real and the Philippine peso.
We expect a similar trend in the fourth quarter leading to a full year sales reduction of 1% from currency versus 2012.
There are 2 additional points on foreign exchange that I'd like to note.
First the dollar weakened against the euro in the third quarter a trend opposite of that seen with most other currencies.
You will recall that we have a greater cost exposure to the euro given our plant in The Netherlands that supplies Hong Kong and China and our low revenue base in Europe.
A weaker dollar relative to the euro therefore leads to higher product cost.
The impact is first seen in the carrying value of inventories on our balance sheet and will only start to be reflected in earnings during the fourth quarter.
Relative to our expectations 3 months ago currency trends reduced our full year earnings guidance by a couple of pennies.
The second point is the potential for a further significant devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
We have seen very strong volume gains in this market along with the higher price increases that Kasper mentioned in his earlier remarks in response to high inflation.
As a result our exposure to a further devaluation has grown as we have moved through 2013.
Given the timing of local elections we don't expect this during the fourth quarter and the future bolivar devaluation is not included in our 2013 guidance.
However we believe that the devaluation risk remains and that an EPS impact in the mid-single cent range is likely to occur in the next 6 months.
I'll provide some additional color on foreign exchange impacts at our November 7 Investor Day Conference.
The gross margin strengthened 150 basis points to 65.1% in the third quarter from 63.6% in the second quarter.
Stronger volume leverage was a key driver along with higher pricing and manufacturing efficiencies.
We now anticipate that the gross margin for the full year will be slightly above 63%.
Since our year-to-date gross margin stands at 63.7% that means that margins will be noticeably lower in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
The drop is the result of increased spot dairy prices from earlier in the year that will start to be reflected in our cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter.
In addition lower manufacturing volumes will also contribute to the sequential quarter decline.
This is due to the normal quarter-to-quarter variability in production rates as we move through any given year.
We also expect to see a higher level of startup cost in the fourth quarter from our new plant in Singapore as we bring more employees on board and start equipment testing.
The project is on schedule with production expected to begin in the second half of next year.
Let me note that our full year guidance for gross margins slightly above 63% is up about 50 basis points from our previous estimate of about 62.5%.
Total operating expenses came in at 39.7% of sales in the third quarter down 80 basis points versus the prior-year quarter.
This largely reflected leverage of our sales growth and lower balance sheet remeasurement losses from foreign exchange.
Advertising and promotion expenses stood at 15.6% of sales in the third quarter up 50 basis points from 2012 and similar to our record spending in the second quarter.
Total operating expenses for the full year should approach 40% of sales up from 38.7% in 2002.
A&amp;P should run near the year-to-date rate of 15.2% up a full percentage point from 2012 and a slight increase from the guidance in our last call.
Higher pension settlement costs and bonus accruals are also increasing full year operating expenses as measured on a percent of sales basis.
Please note that we expect pension settlement expenses to increase in the fourth quarter by about $0.03 a share versus the third quarter resulting from lump sum payouts for known retirements.
Finally EBIT margins for the full year are expected to be about 23% similar to the prior year percentage as we have increased demand-generation investments in light of higher gross margins.
Turning to taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR for the third quarter of 2013 is 26.3% up from 17.4% in the prior-year quarter.
You may recall we had a $0.06 per share benefit in the third quarter of 2012 associated with prior year's tax adjustments.
In the third quarter of 2013 we had an unfavorable impact from prior year's tax adjustments of $0.01 per share.
These are the most significant factors at work.
On a full year basis we now expect our ETR to come in around 25% similar to the 25.4% year-to-date rates and the high end of our previous range.
That continued progress from the 26% seen in 2012 absent the favorable prior year adjustments last year.
Before I turn to our balance sheet and cash flow let me make a couple of points on our latest guidance.
I'd like to address 2 points: First the key factors affecting our full year EPS estimates compared to expectations 3 months ago; and second the most significant reason fourth quarter earnings should be lower than the third quarter.
As Kasper mentioned we now expect that full year sales growth should range from 7% to 8% on a reported basis.
Constant-dollar sales for the full year are estimated to grow between 9% to 10% for our core operations excluding non-core businesses exited last year up from 8% as estimated last quarter.
The increase is coming from our Asia/Latin America segment which accounts for almost 3/4 of our consolidated sales.
We also expect a higher annual gross margin than our earlier guidance which contributes even further to EPS gains.
Partially offsetting these increases are higher demand-generation investments unfavorable currency impacts and a slightly higher effective tax rate.
The net result is that we've increased our non-GAAP guidance for the full year to $3.30 to $3.37 per share from $3.22 to $3.30 per share in our last earnings call.
And please remember that our numbers do not anticipate any meaningful devaluation of the Venezuela bolivar during the remainder of the year.
Our guidance anticipates fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS to range from $0.70 to $0.77 per share down from $0.91 this past quarter.
The sequential quarterly decline in EPS is largely attributed to the reduction in gross margins along with higher pension settlement expenses as I mentioned earlier.
With regard to full year GAAP earnings we expect EPS to be in the range of $3.12 to $3.19 per share.
Specified costs of about $0.18 per share for the full year include $0.15 for the NDRC administrative penalty in China of which $0.04 was recognized in the second quarter and $0.11 in the third quarter.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and liquidity year-to-date free cash flow measured after capital spending was $450 million in 2013 up 17% from the prior year.
That's exceptional performance given the $33 million administrative penalty in China and $92 million in higher cash spending for capital projects most notably our Singapore spray dryer.
Controllable working capital which we defined as receivables and inventories net of accounts payable has averaged a little less than 7.5% in the first 3 quarters of 2013 down from 10.2% in 2012.
We remain on track to deliver the best working capital performance in MJN's history.
For the full year we continue to project CapEx at $260 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $85 million in 2013.
During the third quarter total debt dropped by $55 million as we paid off all remaining borrowings under our short-term revolver and also retired the final portion of the seller financing for the 2012 acquisition in Argentina.
We repurchased 450 000 shares of stock during the quarter and exhausted almost all of the remaining $300 million authorization initially approved by our Board in early 2010.
In response the Board approved an additional 500 million share repurchase program in September.
We intend to use this authorization to offset dilution from equity awards to employees in the coming years.
In addition we will use this for broader opportunistic buybacks to return cash to shareholders.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Let me close our prepared remarks by expressing my gratitude to all our employees who've helped deliver strong third quarter results.
As some if not all of you will remember a number of -- you will have an opportunity to meet a number of our key executives during our November 7 Investor Day.
For that reason I thought I'd let you know that following several years of strong growth in Latin America we have promoted Chris Stratton who led that region since early 2010 to the new position of President for Asia-Pacific.
In this capacity Chris will be responsible for North and South Asia with the respective sub-regional leaders reporting into him.
Chris has extensive prior experience in both Asia and emerging markets in general and he's been a great addition to our team since joining us in 2010.
Chris will be presenting at our Investor Day.
Let me also acknowledge that we're operating in rapidly changing environments around the world.
Nowhere is it is more true than in China but over time we've repeatedly proven we can adapt learn improve and continue to grow.
I'm confident this will remain true.
The third quarter saw us deliver on our growth ambitions while simultaneously reporting strong profitability.
But I'm perhaps most satisfied with our continued commitment to invest at higher levels in demand creation and future growth.
With that we'll be pleased to take your questions.
And Grant who is our operator can I please ask you to open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ken Goldman.
Research Division</strong> So typically in an inflationary period you would take pricing in China as I imagine you will elsewhere around the world but that might be a bit trickier this time around.
So given the situation over there I guess I'm curious to what extent do you expect you will raise prices in China? And I'm talking total pricing list plus promotions to offset your higher costs.
And really can you even do it at all? And if you can what level do you think you'll get there? This is Kasper thanks for the question.
I don't think we want to make specific comments on absolute intentions regarding pricing in China or anywhere else for that matter but let me talk a little bit generally about it.
Our pricing strategy always is a result of us evaluating both our competitiveness and the cost pressures that the business is under.
And I think we'll continue to assess both of these things in the China environment.
Now you're familiar with some of the announcements that had been made by some of our competitors regarding the intentions on pricing going forward at least over the next 6 to 9 months or so.
I think it's important to bear that in mind but at the same time remember that there are several products and brands that currently are selling in China at higher prices than we are realizing.
Research Division</strong> Let me be -- that's helpful.
Let me be a little direct and just one follow-up then.
Is there anything structural that the government is doing to prevent you? Or do you -- that you think the government will do to prevent you from raising prices if you normally would need to? No it's not our impression that the government is contemplating price controls as such.
I think the government is obviously concerned about people behaving reasonably with regards to pricing and they're putting this in a global context.
We have spoken previously on these calls about the fact that our prices in China are not dissimilar from what they are in comparable other countries.
So we don't think as such that there's anything on a longer-term basis that is structurally changed in China.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger.
Research Division</strong> I know there's not a great deal to be said right now about the SEC request for documents but can you just confirm whether you've received Well's [ph] notice or not? And then Pete more broadly you talked about the buyback and the fact that there's at least some view toward opportunistic share repurchases.
Should we view that as a shift toward more active use of the balance sheet for buybacks? And does the internal investigation limit your ability to buy back stock near term? Pete maybe I'll let you talk about the buybacks question.
And then I'll take the China question.
Matthew I think with regard to being able to do opportunistic buybacks I think we do intend to try to take advantage of the volatility that occurs in our stock just as our shareholders would.
And so it is probably a slight change.
I mean if you actually look at our share base from when we put the first authorization in place to when we ended it we actually did see a decline in outstanding shares so we were buying back more than what was needed just for dilution coming from employee stock award.
So it's not a total change I'd say but it gives us more flexibility to do that moving forward.
Matthew let me just complete the answer by commenting on the interaction with the SEC and just to say that this is an entirely voluntary interaction and the exchange of information that is happening with the SEC or will happen with the SEC is completely voluntary as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow up to Ken Goldman's question just regarding pricing and not even specifically to China but just -- as we start to think -- as we look at gross margins going out beyond this year -- I think in the past you've tried to manage input cost inflation through a combination of productivity and price increases.
And so I guess as we're looking at just for the total company next year is there anything that would preclude you from being able to -- or for us to expect that you would be able to manage that inflation through the combination of productivity and pricing? And maybe just as a follow-up -- as a second to that just in terms of just generally thinking about pricing going forward how much would also be dependent upon a -- like a meaningful change in product formulations or new products to really sort of tie in a higher price? Sure.
First with regard to pricing I would still say just like productivity we consider that an important tool for trying to manage our gross margins over time.
I think we have known for a while here that dairy costs were going up and we've tried in some markets to get ahead of that with some success.
That's actually one of the reasons gross margins were a little bit higher in the third quarter this year.
So there are going to be markets like China as Kasper addressed where you also have to consider market conditions.
But in general I'd say it's still part of our -- it's still an arrow in our quiver for going after it maintaining high gross margins.
Was there another part to your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just second -- there's been a lot of focus about pricing in your ability to raise prices going forward and just -- like one thing that's maybe even absent in the analysis or the debate about it is just the impact that new products play and I guess you'll talk more about new products at the Investor Day but just -- can you -- is that still I guess another arrow in your quiver in terms of -- to the extent you can tie pricing to especially -- meaningful changes and product claims? Is that still something that you see as a variable or a factor going forward? This is Kasper.
Let me talk a little bit about pricing in a more general sense.
I think Pete did a good job of sort of addressing this specifics.
You're absolutely right to point out that pricing is a consequence of the value equation you can deliver to consumers and that is heavily influenced by your innovation program.
And we will discuss that more at our Investor Day next month.
In general I'll also say on pricing that we have been able to raise prices in years past but we've been able to do so because in general we have raised prices at a lower level than wages have gone up in the markets we compete in.
So if you look at affordability of our products you could make a very strong argument that that has actually improved.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question has to do with the promotional adjustment that you had talked about in China as a possible offset to the price cuts.
And how -- you kind of indicated you weren't exactly sure how that would go.
Can you give any commentary on that situation? I think in the third quarter Eric we recognized a net price decline in China which was consistent with the announcement made in mid-July and therefore in line with our expectations.
We also expect lower prices in the coming quarter and expectations have clearly not changed since our earnings call.
That said as we realize lower list prices as you correctly highlight this gives us opportunities selectively to address our promotional spend which is always a function of competitiveness anyway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry -- and then I guess with the regulatory changes do you see any need to adjust your previous plans to expand into the number of cities that you had mentioned before in China? In short no.
I don't think the regulatory changes per se impacts our plan.
We're going to talk a little bit more about our plan for growth in China specifically during our Investor Day.
So I hope we'll see you at that but no I don't think the regulatory changes will impact that.
The regulatory changes first of all it's important to recognize they are not final yet but there's a lot of conversation going on about changes the government is contemplating.
And we are in many cases participating in those discussions.
It's quite likely that that might lead to some -- needs to adjust but we've proven that we can adjust before.
And as I said in the prepared remarks I think ultimately this will be to the net benefit of the stronger players in the industry that have global experience and best practices that they can transfer into China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last thing.
On a follow-up on the SEC in your investigation can you just kind of walk through the timeline a little bit more on this? So obviously one of your competitors has been flagged you decided to do a voluntary review give the Board non-insiders the lead on this and then you contacted the SEC and said hey we're doing this and we'll keep you apprised of it is that how this whole kind of laid out? Well let me firstly say that the investigation is in an early stage and therefore it's not appropriate to talk much about it.
And we can't really speak for the SEC and what -- as to what is prompting their interest.
But I want to reiterate the fact that the investigation that we have initiated is entirely voluntary and as is the exchange of information that we've had with the SEC.
We can't really sort of talk much about it except to say that we have ongoing discussions with the SEC about the whole range of issues.
That's part of normal business and this is one of the topics that have come up in our interaction with the SEC and we are committed to doing a solid job of supplying them with whatever information they want.
I would just add to -- you made a statement that we talked to the SEC after our investigation.
Well if you're read our disclosure the SEC requested documents from us.
So just to make sure you understand that point.
Research Division</strong> So is it -- again I'm sorry to take up time here but it's -- so it's a separate kind of track? You decided to look into in more detail some of the practices in your business in China and then kind of aside from that the SEC has requested from you some documents to review and they may or may not be related? Well they are separate but obviously related tracks.
We can't quite speculate as I said earlier about what's prompting the SEC interest.
We don't -- obviously we don't have full and complete knowledge about that.
But we -- it's obvious with the many changes in the publicity that has taken -- that has sort of surfaced in China over the last few months that it would be appropriate for any company that operates in China to look at this matter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the share improvement in China that you achieved based on the competitor re-top [ph] calls in the quarter and the sustainability of that? How long do you think you will benefit from that going forward? Well it's a little bit hard to separate out exactly the order of magnitude from what is caused by specifically by the competitive recall actions vis-à-vis what progress we are making in China due to sort of the momentum that we had previously established as we recovered from the significant share loss we saw in the middle of 2012.
So you will forgive me for not trying to split it up but what we can see is that it looks very much to us as if we are picking up our fair share of the losses suffered by some of our competitors as a result of this unfortunate event.
Research Division</strong> And do that work in a similar fashion to what we've seen with health concerns or recalls in the U.S.
where there would be of certain amount of sustainability to that given the nature of the category in infants entering and aging out of the category? Yes you'd expect that to be the same.
So you'd expect that there would be some benefit that would endure.
And then over time that would diminish and things would normalize around the trends that were in existence prior to this.
Your next question comes from Amit Sharma.
Apart from the pricing discussion that you had in China there are other changes in how you approach the market or the consumer.
Can you talk about -- if your demand generation activities or the model that you followed in China is there going to be any change or what changes will there be in that model as you go forward given the evolving environment in China? Amit that's an excellent question.
And as you can imagine we are very focused on it.
I think it's way too early to speculate on that.
I think the environment is going through a lot of change at the moment and I don't think that we can sort of ascertain what the end state will be.
What we are very mindful of is that in the recent months or 2 the Ministry of Health in China has issued some guidelines for the interaction that they see as being justifiable with healthcare professionals.
Obviously we are very mindful of that.
And we are ensuring that we are acting entirely consistent with that.
That said we are hoping that these guidelines will become even clearer in the coming months and then we'll assess what that means for our business we'll adjust to it.
And I feel very confident that we have the capabilities to make any changes or adjustments to our model while remaining competitive in China.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a quick follow-up on your online channel in China if you can provide us any detail in terms of how that's ramping up either in terms of percent of sales in China or in any other metric that will help us understand.
It's still relatively early days.
We look -- we really sort of launched it I guess in August and began selling our fully imported solutions brand via the channel in that months.
It's early but we are growing strongly and I don't think beyond that that we will say other than it's currently small.
And we don't intend going forward to sort of discuss individual channel sales in China.
Your next question comes from David Driscoll.
Research Division</strong> So 3 detailed questions just quick ones though.
And then just one bigger picture.
Pete can you talk about the fourth quarter revenue growth expectation.
And then 2 other quick ones.
The Hong Kong -- just given all these -- the Hong Kong restrictions can you just talk about your sales growth in Hong Kong in the third quarter.
And then finally and forgive me if you said it but what was your estimated market share gain in China in the third quarter? So those 3 points and then I have a bigger picture question.
Sure we're not going to give you specific guidance.
But in terms of the revenue in the fourth quarter I would say talking off of constant-dollar core sales we gave guidance of 9% to 10%.
On the year-to-date basis we're at about 9% so that would assume higher growth than what you've seen on average year-to-date.
I don't want us to comment on the specific level.
With regard to Hong Kong sales growth in the third quarter it was meaningful versus last year's sales.
And sales continue to grow last year quarter-by-quarter.
So the standard gets tougher but we're quite pleased with what we're seeing there.
David maybe I can comment.
As you know we don't give specific numbers on our progress in China market share but what I can say is that we did make material progress I guess over the second quarter.
And we are now really back to the levels that we saw prior to -- fully back to the levels we saw prior to the significant loss of share in the middle of 2012.
So we feel very good about that.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate those comments.
My final question is just kind of bigger picture here.
And Kasper I think in something like 2006 you were the GM overall Asia.
And I believe you had direct responsibilities for the China operation.
So in my mind you're as an expert as anyone alive on Mead Johnson's practices within China.
On my view your stock is down right now because this thing just feels so ominous when it's written in the press release about hiring outside counsel and so on and so forth.
From all years that you directly ran it and then as Chief Operating Officer and now CEO I mean do you feel that that business is being run in the correct fashion? Can you give us any sense here as to how severe an issue this is? Or is it -- you're covering your bases by performing an outside investigation just to make sure that there's no doubts about it? But -- just any kind of commentary on this right now given your very long perspective and history on it would be valued.
It's obviously an important question and one we take very seriously.
I've -- I want to be very clear that we have a very complete set of company policies that fully comply with both international regulations that we are following and local laws and we feel very good about that.
And now it is a big company in a diverse geography and what we want to make sure is that we have -- we've not had any single occur in the business that will be inconsistent with those company policies.
Now why we initiated this investigation? Well we've initiated it because we want to be completely thorough about that.
And we take it seriously.
We take the interaction we are having with the SEC seriously.
But more importantly perhaps we take our own guidelines and policies seriously.
So that's probably as much as I can say about it.
Research Division</strong> Just final question.
Is there any time that you can share? Sorry David.
To be respectful to others in the queue Grant I'd like to move on to the next call.
The next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper wondering if you can comment on what you're seeing in terms of formula volume growth at the category level in China.
And then within that I guess we're seeing some pretty strong superpremium price to your growth can you just walk through how Mead may be thinking about participating in the single premium category made for the future innovation? Is that within your plan at all? Yes just -- let me just return to the question that -- because I don't want to appear to be dodging David's question on timeline.
So David I'll answer it anyway.
The -- we don't have a timeline here.
What we are committed to is doing a thorough job of it and when we feel there's something that merit disclosure we'll let you guys know in a timely manner.
On the question of formula growth in China well obviously it's likely that pricing growth will be constrained at least for a number of months.
Having said that as pricing growth is constrained one would expect that there might be positive impact on volumes and the rate at which people are trading up to the premium category so we expect that there'll be an offset on that.
Finally the question you raised about superpremium.
There are several products on the market in China that appears to be successful and growing at higher price points that we are currently attracting.
We've spoken to this point before and our view has not really changed on it.
We will only decide to participate in that segment if we feel we can bring real science to the segment through better product than our current products.
And it's likely that if we were able to decide to do so we -- I'm sure you would understand that we wouldn't pre-announce it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English.
Research Division</strong> You talked a few times about the regulatory overhaul within China and your conversations with the government in clearly what is still a lot of uncertainty.
Despite the uncertainty can you comment right now on whether or not you believe you'll be able to continue with your practice of importing base powder to be mixed and blended and repacked in China? Or whether or not you're anticipating a need to modify that? Yes Jason let me comment a little bit on it.
I think it's way too early to begin discussing hypotheticals because the regulations are still being finalized.
So we feel that we have the ability and the expertise to adapt to whatever guidelines are put in place.
We have experienced enough that we could operate in several different manners.
That said we have a view that it makes sense for regulations to be focused on quality of the end product as opposed to individual components or subparts of the process or manufacturing.
And we're engaged in that discussion with the Chinese government and we hope that they'll see it the same way.
Research Division</strong> Let's shift gears and talk about north of..
Go ahead Jason.
I just want to be respectful there's still quite a few people in the queue and we're running out of time.
Research Division</strong> I hear you.
I'll make this quick and move on.
North America underlying volume growth really solid can you just parse it out give us some details where it's coming from and particularly are you improvement in underlying infant formula demand on the back of improved birthrates? You're right to highlight that birth in North America for the first time are - is either flat or slightly growing.
And we are expecting new results fairly quickly.
So you would expect that that had a have positive impact.
However it's equally important to note that we are still seeing a rise in breast-feeding rates.
So there's somewhat of an offset there.
How that will play out through the next 12 18 months? I think depends very substantially on the trend in unemployment.
So we'll continue to monitor but certainly the environment in North America as we see it today is better than it was 12 18 24 months ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> I think this question has been asked in different ways but now that you've raised your gross margin guidance for this year and it seems like you've gotten a little more pricing than you expected as you look to next year do you think that you have the tools at your disposal to be in your 62% to 63% range? I think that's kind of the normal range that's been held out there before.
This an issue I think that people are worried about for your stock.
Sure.
I would say we'll talk a little bit more about it in our Investor Day in 2 weeks but we do have the headwind of higher dairy costs affecting us in the fourth quarter.
We think that's going to continue to be a headwind as we move to the first half of the year.
Beyond that it's -- the visibility is a bit hard.
To be quite honest it will depend on where dairy goes as well as we finalize any pricing plans and productivity plans we have for next week.
But stay tuned we'll give you some more information as we get it.
Operator I think we have time for 2 more calls.
Your next question is coming from the line of Diane and Geissler.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you -- Pete I think you made some comments about Asia/LatAm sort of ex China/Hong Kong that South Asia was low double-digits and I got the feeling that the Latin American piece was growing at a more rapid rate than that area of South Asia.
One could you confirm that that was a correct interpretation? And then just -- to your goals that you set out at your Analyst Day 2 years ago I think you've talked about Latin America being a billion dollar business.
I think your target date was 2015.
Can you talk about where you are in terms of that goal please? Sure.
I think your understanding of the growth rate in the quarter for both South Asia and for Latin America your understanding is correct.
And we remain on track for the $1 billion in sales in 2015 for Latin America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a way that you think you might be able to reach that a little bit earlier with the growth rates that you're seeing in Brazil and Argentina? Or no? We're not going to comment on that.
Just to understand to there's a lot of moving pieces here including foreign exchange.
And that's also going to affect reported sales but you can listen to the Latin American presentation coming up in 2 weeks.
Your next question comes from Leigh Ferst.
LLC Research Division</strong> I also had a question about Latin America.
If you could give us a little more understanding of what's going on in Brazil what's driving the growth there in terms of products geography consumer sentiment et cetera because obviously there's issues with other consumer segments in Brazil.
Yes Leigh I mean -- I think you're asking the question against the backdrop of sort of an overall softening of the Brazilian economy I suspect and perhaps some of the things that have been said by other consumer product companies.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes and just a better understanding of where your growth is coming.
Yes.
We've not expanded geographically beyond the 3 areas that we've been focused on so far: Rio de Janeiro São Paulo and Belo Horizonte.
That covers about my estimation something like 2/3 of the Brazilian market and it's an area that we believe that we can reach in an efficient manner.
What's really driving our growth is market share gains.
So you'll recall that we are -- we've done a lot of work over the last 3 4 years to establish an infant formula business there.
And we are still growing off a relatively small base but we are making great progress.
And so I think because of our size relatively we are perhaps less exposed to the sort of the overall changes in the economic environment in Brazil than others are.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds like you still have some run way.
We feel we do.
Great.
Operator that concludes our question-and-answer section.
Thank you then ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day everyone.