Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter 2013 and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Derek and good morning.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in the morning's earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on this morning's call.
Before I turn to our full year results allow me to make a few brief comments on our fourth quarter.
On a global basis we delivered constant dollar revenue growth of 11% in the fourth quarter of 2013 driven by continued strong performance across our emerging markets segments.
Revenue grew particularly strongly across South America.
China Hong Kong Thailand and Vietnam were the main contributors to strong Asian performance in the quarter.
And as anticipated in our last call due to rising dairy costs gross margin declined by 210 basis points from the previous quarter to 63%.
We'll return to the topic of gross margin headwinds when we discuss the outlook for 2014.
Despite the fall in gross margin we continued to invest in new product launches and other growth initiatives as evidenced by our advertising and promotion expenditure for the quarter running at an all-time high of 16% of sales.
Earnings per share for the quarter grew 8% versus the same period of 2012 to $0.78.
Turning now to our full year results.
I'm very pleased to report that constant dollar sales growth was 9% for the year and at the top end of our guidance range.
Non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.38 for the full year exceeded expectations.
Revenue for the full year was $4.2 billion.
I note that the last 3 years have seen us add more than $1 billion to our revenue base.
More than 70% of our sales are now being generated in Asia and Latin America.
And in aggregate revenue in these emerging markets continue to grow double digits.
Rapid growth within the high-inflation environments of Argentina and Venezuela contributed 150 basis points to the company's constant dollar growth for the full year.
Gross margin improved by 160 basis points to 63.5% of sales as we realized stronger pricing and benefited from productivity gains within our supply chain.
Strong margins allowed us to increase our investment in advertising and promotion by 120 basis points within the year and still delivered a 10% increase in earnings per share.
Before I comment on the outlook for 2014 let me briefly comment on the performance within each of our reporting segments.
I should mention that beginning with the last quarter of 2013 we've decided to report Asia and Latin America separately to provide you with even greater visibility to our performance.
Now firstly Asia.
In the fourth quarter our business in Asia grew 20% on a constant dollar basis.
Our quarterly comparison was enhanced by 8 points from a reduction of China distributor inventories in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year the Asia segment delivered annual constant dollar sales growth of 10%.
Revenue in China/Hong Kong grew by 11% and reached $1.3 billion for the full year.
We're particularly pleased with this performance as it was mostly the result of volume gains from increases in market share.
These came as we manage through multiple challenges in a rapidly changing environment.
I believe this is testimony to the resilience of our China business and the strength of our capabilities there.
Sales growth in Hong Kong was particularly healthy despite the export restrictions put in place in the first quarter of 2013.
We believe traffic across the China/Hong Kong border has increased and a significant amount of product continues to flow through the Mainland.
Our growth in Thailand and Vietnam was also noteworthy.
Despite political turmoil and unrest in parts of Thailand our team continued to execute well and grew market share through the year.
We overcame a supply disruption to our ready-to-drink products and are rapidly rebuilding our market share in that segment.
Likewise strong execution underpinned our progress in Vietnam.
The year however wasn't without challenges and we remain focused on strengthening our performance in both the Philippines and Indonesia where our performance did not meet our expectations.
We're working hard to improve our execution in both markets.
Turning now to Latin America.
Fourth quarter growth in Latin America was 16% on a constant dollar basis.
Constant dollar sales for the full year 2013 grew by 22%.
As mentioned pricing gains realized in the high-inflation environments of Venezuela and Argentina contribute to the full 8 percentage points to the segment's constant dollar growth rate.
Notwithstanding this unique Latin -- dynamic Latin America was our fastest-growing region in 2013.
We've reported sales growth in U.S.
dollars at 14%.
Growth was driven by strong share gains across nearly all markets in the region.
Regional performance highlights include our doubling of sales of Enfamil in Brazil in 2013.
We continued to gain share in infant formula and introduced Enfagrow into the market late in the year.
We also launched a ready-to-drink version of our Sustagen brand in Brazil.
Our acquired business in Argentina continues to meet its targets despite the economic challenges there and we are making solid progress towards building a premium segment presence.
In Mexico we faced a challenging environment.
Overall consumer demand was weak through much of the year and particularly in the fourth quarter.
The relatively weaker market conditions offset our share gains in infant formula.
Finally we continued to see very strong performance in Peru where we maintained a market-leading position.
Lastly let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
Constant dollar sales were down by 5% in the fourth quarter.
Excluding businesses exited after the fourth quarter of 2012 revenue declined by 3% over the prior year period.
Retail inventory shifts and the timing of promotional programs in both the most recent quarter and the fourth quarter of 2012 make this comparison somewhat misleading.
On a sequential basis revenue in the segment grew by $22 million in the -- from the third quarter or by 8%.
We remain optimistic based on the progress we are making both North America and Europe.
Though we report full year constant dollar revenue for the segment lower by 2% I'd like to note that excluding the impact of businesses we discontinued in 2012 the segment grew over prior year.
Pricing for the year was up and offset volume declines driven by shrinking category consumption caused by increasing breast-feeding rates in the U.S.
Also in the U.S.
we're encouraged by the initial response to the advertising campaign for Enfagrow.
The longer-term development of a children's category in the U.S.
remains one of the company's biggest growth opportunities.
We also saw solid share gains in Canada where we're now the market leader.
And lastly our restructuring of our European business is paying off.
Europe posted solid revenue growth for the year and improved profitability despite the challenging macro environment there.
Let me now return to our global business and our outlook for 2014.
Wrapping up my comments on 2013 on a global basis we're pleased with constant dollar sales growth of 9%.
Even discounting for rapid growth in high-inflation environments our business grew strongly in 2013.
Now let me comment on our outlook for 2014.
I wish to highlight we provide this outlook at a time of particularly high volatility in the foreign exchange markets with many emerging market currencies under some pressure.
Despite the somewhat uncertain environment we look forward to another strong year of growth.
We expect constant dollar sales growth of about 7% for the full year 2014.
We expect Asia constant dollar sales to grow at a rate similar to 2013 despite intensifying competition in China.
In Latin America we again expect double-digit sales growth in constant dollars.
We've scaled back our expectations for growth in Venezuela reflecting the unique challenges associated with that market.
We expect the North America/Europe segment to deliver sales growth in the low single digits on a go-forward basis.
Growth will likely be driven by continued progress in our children's category and the success of our Nutramigen allergy franchise.
We expect gross margins to be negatively affected by rising dairy costs and weakening emerging market currencies.
As we've said previously we expect gross margin to return to its historical level.
Pete will provide more detail on that in a moment.
Despite lower expected margins we continue to invest in demand-generation activities at a level consistent with our growth ambition yet not at the exceptional levels of 2013 which supported a China market share recovery and launches of U.S.
Enfagrow advertising and Brazil toddler product lines.
In view of the increased volatility in foreign exchange markets and higher dairy costs we are providing a widened guidance range for earnings per share.
We expect non-GAAP earnings per share for 2014 between $3.50 and $3.62.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide further financial insights.
I'll then return to provide some closing comments before we field your questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Kasper addressed sales growth so I'll start out with some brief comments on foreign exchange.
I'll then walk down the income statement providing highlights on both our 2013 results and our 2014 guidance.
I'll then share a few noteworthy items on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 9% in 2013.
Foreign exchange reduced full year sales growth by 1% resulting in reported sales growth of 8%.
The strengthening dollar was most noticeable in the second half of the year with the greatest impact coming from Latin America.
During the fourth quarter foreign exchange reduced total company sales by 3%.
Including balance sheet remeasurement losses the stronger dollar reduced EPS by about $0.12 during the full year of 2013 although higher pricing offset the impact in most markets.
Turning to 2014.
We have seen a further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar during January again with the greatest impact in Latin America.
For example last week the government in Argentina reduced its support for the peso leading to a mid-teen devaluation.
If exchange rates remain at their current level throughout 2014 we would expect translation impacts to reduce sales by about 2.5% with an unfavorable impact on earnings per share of $0.08 compared to 2013.
Venezuela recently announced a 2-tier exchange rate system but we currently believe that they will hold exchange rates flat for food and nutrition companies.
As a result the unfavorable $0.08 impact from foreign exchange in 2014 that I just mentioned does not include any currency effects resulting from our business in Venezuela.
We remain quite concerned however with this market and our guidance assumes that volumes will fall in 2014 following a very rapid expansion last year.
In the last several months we have seen a significant slowdown in government approvals to exchange bolivars into dollars to pay for product that we bring into the country.
Our exposed bolivar cash balance is increasing as a result.
We will consider limiting exports into Venezuela in order to manage our overall exposure.
Turning to profits.
We delivered full year gross margins of 63.5% in 2013 above our longer-term average in the range of 62% to 63%.
This was driven by pricing gains and our strong productivity program.
Cost savings from productivity lowered our cost of goods sold by 4%.
As we discussed in recent calls stock dairy prices started to increase in April of last year and as Kasper mentioned became more visible on our cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter.
The increase in dairy cost is a global phenomenon but the biggest impact in 2014 will be seen in Asia.
In addition gross margins this year will be affected by the temporary costs associated with the Singapore startup.
These are expected to total about $0.10 per share in 2014.
We'll see these diminish in 2015 and should be eliminated once the plant reaches full capacity currently projected by 2016.
We raised prices in select markets due to higher -- to rising dairy costs.
Higher pricing coupled with further productivity gains are expected to help maintain gross margins at or slightly below 62.5% in 2014 well within the range of our longer-term average.
In 2013 operating expenses came in at 40.4% of sales up 170 basis points from 38.7% in 2012.
Kasper noted that advertising and promotion or A&amp;P increased 120 basis points to 15.4%.
We will continue to invest in demand-generation spending at a level consistent with our growth ambitions and expect A&amp;P to come in around 15% of sales in 2014.
Higher operating expenses are also the result of a significant increase in other net expenses.
We saw significant increase in pension settlement costs which were most noticeable in the fourth quarter and reflected a greater level of retirements.
In addition our 2012 results included foreign exchange gains which did not reoccur in 2013.
Looking to 2014 we intend to drive greater leverage in our SG&amp;A infrastructure.
In addition we currently expect other net expenses to return to levels more in line with 2012.
The net impact of these savings is to lower total operating expenses to a level modestly above 39%.
Given the assumptions I just laid out on both gross margins and operating expenses 2014 EBIT margins are expected to be in the range of 23% to 23.5%.
Looking at taxes our effective tax rate or ETR was 24.2% in 2013.
You'll recall that in 2014 we saw an ETR of 26% excluding several favorable adjustments related to prior year's tax returns.
The ETR benefit is largely the result of relocating our Asian headquarters to Singapore.
We expect our global tax rate in 2014 to be in the range of 24% to 24.5% in line with our 2013 results.
Before summarizing our non-GAAP EPS guidance let me briefly discuss our expected trend for interest expense.
Interest expense fell from $65 million in 2012 to about $51 million in 2013 primarily as a result of the retirement of the final tranche of our borrowing for the Argentine acquisition.
In 2014 we expect interest expense will be about $60 million an increase of $0.03 per share.
There are several drivers.
First we need to refinance $500 million in notes issued by our U.S.
parent company in late 2009.
These come due in November of this year.
As you all are likely aware most of our cash sits outside the U.S.
Our plan is to refinance this debt with new long-term bonds and ideally push the maturity out from the original 5 years to 30 years.
We have a hedge in place that effectively locked in a relatively low long-term rate.
Second the existing bonds carry an amortized gain from a fixed to floating interest rate swap that will disappear once they are refinanced.
And finally accounting rules require us to capitalize a portion of our interest expense for large projects during the period prior to equipment testing.
So we will stop capitalizing interest and return to the regular expense recognition over the next 2 quarters.
To summarize our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.62 per share and about 7% constant dollar sales growth.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by about 2.5 points assuming currencies remain at their current level.
The slightly wider range in our EPS guidance at this early point in the year reflects greater uncertainty going into 2014 from a strengthening dollar and from the uncertainty about Venezuela.
I want to point out that we plan to move to mark-to-market pension accounting during the first quarter of 2014.
Our guidance does not incorporate this change.
You may recall that we closed our U.S.
pension plan to new participants immediately before our 2009 IPO and existing employees stopped getting any further credits for service at that time.
Effective in February U.S.
plan participants will also see no increase in pension benefits from further salary increases.
Given that the pension plan will then be fully frozen we intend to change our policy for recognizing pension expense.
As we make the change we plan to report the mark-to-market component of pension expense as a specified item excluded from non-GAAP results.
This will have the impact of increasing our non-GAAP EPS.
It is very important to note however that such an increase will not reflect an improvement in the operational performance of the business.
Due to the complexity of this accounting change and the requirement to recast historical information on a comparative basis we plan on issuing a separate 8-K with this information in advance of our first quarter 2014 results.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $566 million during 2013 practically the identical level as in 2012.
That is exceptional performance as our capital spending of $250 million was nearly double that of the prior year.
We increased our dividend over 13% to $1.36 per share and we repurchased 1.1 million shares of our stock which consumed $88 million in cash.
Between dividends and share buybacks we returned about 63% of our free cash flow to our shareholders.
For 2014 capital spending is estimated at $180 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $90 million up from $83 million as production from the Singapore plant starts midyear.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
Before we open the lines for questions I'd like to give you my perspective on the global financial events of the last week or so and on Mead Johnson's ability to continue to prosper.
As the U.S.
economy gathers steam I believe we'll reap rewards from the investments we've made in innovation and demand creation through the economic slowdown.
The U.S.
clearly remains a key market for us and I feel particularly proud of the commitments we've made to innovation in that market over the 5 years of relatively weak economic performance.
Secondly I'd like to say that for roughly half of our 105-year history we've operated in emerging markets.
We now operate in over 50 countries and our senior management is drawn from around the globe.
Many of us myself included grew up in businesses with exposure to currency fluctuations and even political turmoil.
I believe that this experience has helped us develop a flexible organization that's ready to respond quickly to changes in the external environment.
We recognize that uncertainty is a fact of life.
But if you have the willingness to embrace it manage it adapt to it and continue to invest for growth then I believe you can succeed where others will stumble.
Mead Johnson has these abilities and will continue to invest in a fashion consistent with our growth ambition.
I'm convinced that over the long term GDP growth in our emerging markets will continue to outstrip that of developed markets as will job creation.
And as women take up these new jobs they will in many cases create dual-income families with the ability and desire to buy our brands for the benefit of their children.
It's due to these dynamics I remain confident in our company's ability to grow and prosper.
We remain committed to growing earnings per share at or above the rate of revenue over the longer term.
And I'd now like to hand the call back to the operator who'll open the lines for questions.
Derek over to you please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Pete one question I have do you -- before I ask the longer one do you think it's possible at some point to perhaps break out the Asia/LatAm organic growth driver a little bit pricing and volume on a historical basis? It would just make it a little bit easier from a modeling perspective.
And then my second question is any way we can quantify at this point if you gave this forgive me the mark-to-market pension benefit you're going to see to EPS this year? I didn't hear you provide any quantification of that.
And if you could maybe clarify that for us it would be helpful.
Sure.
We'll definitely be providing some price volume and exchange impact for our segment for the 3 geographies in our 10-K.
And so if we need to provide greater history we'll do that separately through a press release.
With regard to the pension accounting change I don't want to quantify it right now to be honest because we have to go back and recast the history as well and it's quite complicated.
And I think it could lead to a misleading year-over-year comparison without having that analysis complete.
But we will provide you as I said all the details associated with that well in advance of reporting our first quarter results.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more if I can sneak it in.
Any impact you can provide to us or detail you can provide to us on the potential tax rate benefit from the Singapore plant into 2015? I realize it's helping you in 2014.
But just as we model 2015 there's so many headwinds that go away and maybe this is an extra tail when we can think about too.
Any detail you can provide will be -- would be useful.
It's difficult I think because there's lots of moving parts as I think I mentioned in our Investor Day.
And our need for repatriating cash can always influence our reported tax rate.
But we wouldn't really expect to start to see the benefit from that plant until it gets to full capacity and that's probably not going to be until the very late part of 2015 or early 2016.
Your next question is from the line of Jason English Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions first on inflation.
As we look at the dairy cost curve dairy costs were meaningfully inflationary for you this quarter but it doesn't look like it gets a whole lot worse on a go forward of course barring any incremental moves to the spot rate.
Is that consistently your view as well? Well I think if you look at our gross margin for the fourth quarter which was 63% you heard me say that our gross margin for next year should be about 62.5% or slightly below that for the full year.
There will be a greater impact coming I think as we move at least through the first half of 2014.
I would say Jason too that our guidance assumes that there is some decline in dairy prices that could benefit us if you will in the second half of next year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Turning to China pricing really quick.
It's our understanding that Wyeth and Nestle have already begun to implement fresh price increases -- or effective price increases by churning over their portfolio.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing in the market? And if so what are the implications for your own portfolio in pricing in that market on a go forward? Jason this is Kasper.
Thanks for the question.
What you outlined is consistent with what we assume.
And I think we've said before we will continue to ensure that we are competitive on price.
But obviously prices we don't try and price at a discount.
So we'll evaluate the environment both from a consumer standpoint and from a competitor standpoint and then revise our pricing strategy accordingly.
I anticipate that you're going to want to follow up and ask me about portfolio in China and it won't surprise you that we don't want to comment on future innovation in the market.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Katzman Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Pete could you quantify what your overall basket of inflation you expect to be up as a function of COGS or -- can you do that please? Yes sure.
I just -- we expect to see COGS inflation of about -- well in the high single digits I think for the course of this year.
And that would incorporate not only what we're seeing with dairy pricing but also the impact of the startup expenses with the new Singapore plant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- in terms of like the Venezuela and Argentina I'm not sure I got all that.
So you basically included what Argentina has done so far but Venezuela it seems like it's still to be determined.
I mean is it at a point where -- like are those businesses already being accounted for like on a hyperinflationary basis? Sure.
Venezuela is hyperinflationary and so the U.S.
dollar is the functional currency there.
And the issue is the government's running out of cash.
We saw very impressive volume gains in 2013.
And because we're not getting paid for the product that we're shipping into the country in order to manage our bolivar exposure we may end up reducing our exports into Venezuela.
So we're going from a year where we had very significant volume gains to a year where we expect volumes to decline and that's -- that has a big impact on the growth if you will for the Latin America segment.
I do want to point out just as an aside that pulling Venezuela out of it we expect to see very healthy double-digit growth throughout the rest of Latin America.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes -- well partly.
So at this point your -- I'm just trying to remember.
Your -- or I think it was Kasper's comments on expectations.
So Latin America local currency up double digit that's -- does that include Venezuela or -- it does.
It does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so as a -- as hyperinflation that's going to -- where will -- because I don't think we've -- since you've been public we've had -- you reported hyperinflation.
So what would the -- the impact would then shift to the net interest expense line or other expense? No no no.
Venezuela has been on hyperinflation accounting for many many years since we've been public.
There's no change associated with that.
Your next question is from the line of David Driscoll Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit more about the sales growth expectation.
So constant currency sales growth 2013 is up 9% but you're guiding to 7%.
So the -- I think the question is it's like it feels -- North America the numbers don't look particularly good for 2014 because of all the things that were going on in there.
That gets better.
Asia seems like it's -- it gets better and/or I think you actually said constant.
So that's pretty good because it's such a huge chunk.
And then there's this Latin America change.
What did it grow grew 22% or something like that in 2013? And then you say double digits so there's a big range in there.
When you see a slowdown year-to-year is there something you're just trying to point out? I mean is this something you really want people to focus on a slowdown in constant currency growth from '13 to '14? Or are you taking a conservative approach to this forecast given all of the craziness in the market today? I think we are partially taking a conservative approach given the uncertainty in the market David.
It's an excellent question.
The other thing I'd like to point out is I'd like to just return to what Pete said about Venezuela.
And we've clearly taken the view that we would -- we can't and won't continue to run up exposure to Venezuela and therefore we are assuming that we will be holding back some shipment into Venezuela to just balance our payments out of the country with our shipments into the country.
So I think we've been -- over the last 3 quarters or so we've been very explicit to you guys about the contribution coming from these high-inflation environments and we are simply building in a little bit more what should we say fiscal conservatism to the way we will conduct the business there in the months going forward.
Research Division</strong> That was excellent.
Final question for me is just can you give us a bit more clarity on North American profits kind of in the fourth quarter and throughout the year? Pete this thing is so tough to model on a quarter.
The volatility of North American profits -- North America and Europe profits is fairly huge.
The fourth quarter I think is a perfect case in point.
What's going on here? And I love the comment about non-WIC share gains and that generally makes me think it's good for profits.
But of course profits were down year-on-year so definitely need a little help.
When you look at North America/Europe for the quarter margins were definitely down just by under 8%.
It's the -- all that is coming from demand-generation investments.
And I think we've said repeatedly and we appreciate the difficulty of looking at quarterly trends but there is -- and we don't give quarterly guidance because the timing of when we make investments in any market can vary quite significantly.
You heard Ivonne at our Investor Day talk about the investments we were making in Enfagrow particularly in the fourth quarter and that's the reason that margins are down for North America/Europe in the fourth quarter.
I'd have you look at the full year number as something more representative of what we're trying to achieve which actually had an improvement in EBIT margins of 60 basis points.
Your next question is from the line of Amit Sharma BMO Capital.
Pete I have couple of detailed questions and then a slightly longer term.
The nonrecurring tax benefit in the fourth quarter can you quantify that? And is it possible to give price-volume breakdown for 7% in constant currency sales in 2014? The nonrecurring tax benefit I think probably improved earnings by about $0.01 a share.
That can have a big impact on a given quarter.
But it wasn't material I think over the course of the year.
There's always puts and takes.
And with regard to the 7% constant dollar sales growth I think we expect to see a very healthy balance between volume and pricing.
Okay.
And Kasper as we look forward I mean Latin America is becoming a bigger portion of the portfolio or at least a bigger portion of the growth and margins in that business are well below where margins in other emerging markets are.
Can you frame that discussion around structurally how should we think about margins in Latin America? Would it ever get to the margin in Asia? Or will we continue to see margins well below of that region? Amit that's a -- it's a very good question.
I think really the explanation is quite simple though and it's in 2 parts.
Firstly it's been our fastest-growing region now for quite some time.
And as a consequence of that we have -- we've chosen to invest heavily in the region.
The region has a relatively large percentage of sales going toward sales force in particularly certainly higher than Asia.
Secondly scale is the main contributor to the difference.
You will -- you'll immediately understand that if we double sales in the region we would obviously leverage our infrastructure quite significantly and that would equate many of the sort of differences.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew Grainger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on the impact of competitors' recalls that occurred a few months ago.
Is there anything you can tell us to sort of help us better quantify or understand the magnitude of the benefit that you're seeing right now on your market share from sort of on an absolute level or the impact it might have had on fourth quarter sales growth? And maybe the right way to frame it is are you getting your fair share or any more or less? And as a consequence of those recalls what are you seeing from a competitive standpoint as far as those same competitors trying to spend to regain lost share? Matthew that's -- it's a good question.
I mean we believe we're getting our fair share.
And it's always very difficult when you're gaining share to identify exactly why you're gaining it apart from the fact that you're obviously executing well and I guess in totality almost by definition executing better than your competitors in that particular period.
We remain very focused on our own plans.
It's always a competitive environment and I'm sure it will be a very competitive environment.
I'm sure the players who have lost share whether it be in China or other markets are going to invest in getting that share back and we recognized that within our annual plans for '14.
Research Division</strong> And Kasper just as a follow-up.
I don't know if you can expand on it but within your guidance that you've laid out for 2014 does that assume perhaps that your share returns to its pre-August levels by the midpoint in the year? Or do you currently expect to end up in an absolute level of market share higher than when that event occurred? No we are certainly not anticipating to give back share.
I mean if we look at our share particularly in China if I just deal with China where I guess the impact on competitors has been most pronounced there'll be gained share through 2013 by historical standards.
Our share in China certainly does not look unsustainable.
So we are confident that -- about our ability to hold on to what we've got.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> One clarification question and then one broader.
Pete did you mention I may have missed it the impact of higher pension settlement expense in the fourth quarter '13 relative to '12? Yes I did.
Research Division</strong> And what was that amount? It was up $0.03 a share.
Research Division</strong> $0.03 okay.
And then the press release cites lower category consumption in the U.S.
as kind of a factor on fourth quarter results for the North American piece of the business.
What are your expectations for category consumption in the U.S.
as you look ahead to '14 and maybe the dynamic between births and kind of -- and consumption itself to breastfeeding rates? Jon we've been fairly conservative around our assumptions pertaining to consumption levels.
The birth picture is certainly better in the U.S.
than it has been over the last 3 4 years.
Consumption is still under pressure as breastfeeding rates are rising.
Now we've said before that we are hopeful that if the economy improves and therefore employment for women particularly change then we are hopeful that we will see that plateau or even tail off somewhat.
But we have a reasonably conservative set of assumptions in.
Your next question is from the line of Ingrid Yin Oppenheimer.
I have a question around Hong Kong.
Your business has certainly done very well in 2013 even with the export restriction.
There are still shortage of your product there and Hong Kong government is considering -- put more regulation there.
What's your thought going forward? Will the extension of the restriction policy dilute the growth for your company in that market this year? Ingrid this is Kasper.
We're not anticipating that growth would be negatively impacted by any change in the environment whether the restrictions have tightened or loosened.
Now I have to stress that that's -- it is very hard to talk about restrictions if you don't understand yet.
But assuming the picture remains as it is today we -- what we have really seen is that it would appear that additional foot traffic across the China/Hong Kong border has made up for the restrictions on the volume of product that each person can carry across the border.
And as you correctly said though we were originally somewhat nervous about the impact of these restrictions it would appear that the impact ended up having very little impact on our annual results.
Okay great.
Can you speak a little bit about how we should look at gross margin trends? I mean I know you gave a guidance for the year.
But in terms of quarters how should we think about that? We're not giving guidance by quarters either.
But we would expect -- I did mention that the higher dairy prices are going to be more of a factor in the first half of the year.
So that factor by itself would tend to indicate they might be lower in the first half then a bit higher in the second half.
So should we see the second half gross margin improve because -- do you expect that impact to only last for the first half? Or do you see more pressure towards -- spill over to the second half? We have seen some moderation in dairy prices and that's what led us to forecast that dairy -- COGS the COGS element would improve somewhat in the second half.
I don't want to go beyond that because quite frankly mix in countries and things like that can have an impact on the gross margin as much as commodity costs.
Okay great.
I guess we don't have a very good color on the European market.
I mean how does this -- I mean this region do in the fourth quarter and compare with the first three quarters in 2013? And what is your view for that region going forward this year and even further? Ingrid that's -- it's a good question.
I -- as you know we don't break out Europe from North America.
So I'm not sure I want to say a lot more than I said in my prepared remarks.
But let me just remind you that we did say that we're very pleased with the effects of the restructuring we've done over the past 18 months or so in Europe and we saw solid revenue growth in Europe in 2013.
And accompanying that we saw quite a dramatic improvement in profitability in the region as well.
Now we have to balance that against the fact that Europe is a fairly small part of our overall global business and indeed it is a relatively modest part of the segment as well.
But certainly we're happy with the progress we are making.
The overall environment in Europe of course remains very challenging.
We are in a slightly unique situation in the sense that we have concentrated our business in Western Europe around winning in the allergy segment where we have a very strong market share and indeed have a technically superior product.
So we believe that even in a tough environment we will continue to post strong results out of Europe.
And Ingrid to be respectful to the other sell-sides who haven't gotten to ask a question I'd like to move on.
Your next question is from the line of John Baumgartner Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper just wanted to revisit Asia here and I think you had called out some disappointing performance I think in the Philippines/Indonesia.
What's sort of driving that in your view? Is it competitive issues? Is it more self-inflicted? Just wondering if you could provide some color there.
Yes.
John I mean -- I think it's important when we talk about our performance to remind ourselves that we compete in more than 50 countries around the world and it would be disingenuous of us to pretend that we performed equally well everywhere in every period we discuss.
Hence I've endeavored to be relatively candid with you guys around sort of business issues in select markets.
And you're right to say that I called out The Philippines and Indonesia as having failed to meet our expectations in the year that we just concluded.
I believe it is largely self-inflicted.
We clearly did not execute as well as we should have in those 2 markets in 2013.
Now you can imagine that that's the topic of a lot of discussion and is receiving a lot of focus from both the local leadership as well as the regional leadership.
And I feel confident that we have the ability to sort of manage through that and put these businesses back on the right keel.
But we -- I don't want to hide behind any external factors but simply say that we have room for improvement in our own execution.
Your next question is from the line of Diane Geissler CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Pete thanks for all the detail on the currency which sounds like it's going to be pretty vexing this year for you to just handle.
I wanted to ask about -- so the $0.08 call-out on the currency and looking at that if I just simplistically add that back into your guidance range I'm still coming up with a EPS growth rate sort of spans your top line organic sales growth.
So Kasper you had mentioned that your overall growth goals are for earnings growth or EPS growth at a rate faster than sales.
And I guess I'm just -- I'm trying to puzzle out here.
Look I know your guidance is always going to be conservative at the start of the year because there's just so many darn things that can go wrong during the year.
And this year in particular with the currencies it sounds like it's just a headache for you.
But I guess for investors who have been in your stock or looking at your stock longer term as an investment in the emerging markets shouldn't the growth rate be higher than 7% to 9%? I can kind of get that from any packaged food company at a lower P/E.
And I guess what I'm looking for here is can you -- given all the volatility can you walk us through to the how that can work on a longer-term basis? Yes right Diane.
I continue to think that the strong performance -- I mean clearly it's harder to give guidance with so much fluctuation and volatility in the foreign exchange markets particularly when it comes to the earnings per share range which is why we've chosen to broaden the range beyond what we have historically done.
If I wasn't sufficiently clear in the prepared remarks then let me repeat the fact that in the longer term over time we stated in our -- on our Investor Day that our clear financial objective was to grow earnings per share at or above the rate of sales.
Now there's going to be individual periods within that longer term where that may or may not happen but I wanted to give you all a sense of how we were thinking about the business and how we go about thinking about strategy as we respond to the external environment.
So that -- you correctly observed that at the top end of our guidance range you have earnings growing in line with revenue.
And then we've highlighted some uncertainties which depends on how they play out would take you to a different point in the guidance range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well maybe just to...
And we feel good about the underlying growth.
I -- it wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on what other companies can deliver but I guess we feel good about the long-term prospects.
And we still feel that our business mix and the way we weight -- we are weighted towards emerging markets will provide us with a superior growth profile over time.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe just to ask a little bit more fundamental question can you -- look China had many disruptions last year which we noted kind of all year long between the cross-border restrictions Hong Kong into China and the pricing and the recall et cetera.
Can you just maybe give us a clearer picture of what you think this entire category grew in China in 2013? Just so that we have some kind of baseline to think about in terms of okay the Chinese economy is growing X percent and formula sales in total are growing X percent.
Because there's just so much disruption in that market.
It's really sometimes hard to get a clear picture and kind of that's what forms the basis of our earnings right? And I think that would be very helpful.
Yes.
Diane it's an excellent question and I don't blame you for being a bit confused about it.
It is very very difficult given the very significant channel overlap in China and the emergence now of a relatively poorly monitored Internet channel.
It's very difficult to say what total market growth in China is.
So we have consistently I think -- as I said to you guys that we're sort of working based on -- I guess really based on common sense looking at consumptions and birth rates and stuff like that.
And we believe that volume growth in that market will continue to sort of be in the low single digits plus some price.
Now within that there'll be individual's price segments that are growing faster than other price segments.
So you'll have different companies being positioned differently and therefore looking at different growth prospects.
But I think you -- if you root yourself in the birthrate and then allow for some shift in the demographics or the social economic demographics in China then that's probably the best way for you to look at it.
I recognize that there is a wide range of growth rates being provided by different companies.
Okay.
I think operator that we are actually out of time.
So thank you everybody for listening to our earnings call.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.