Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Katina and good morning to everyone listening.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in this morning's earnings release posted on the Investors Section of our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates at a subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us on this call.
I'll highlight our overall operating performance in the first quarter before discussing each of our segments and our updated earnings guidance.
Pete will then provide additional details on our financial performance and I'll wrap up with some comments before we take questions.
Turning now to the first quarter of 2014.
We had a strong start to the year with a record revenue and earnings in the latest quarter.
As you likely read in this morning's press release revenue grew at 11% on a constant dollar basis driven by strong performance in all geographic segments and particularly strong growth in 2 -- in our 2 largest markets of China and the U.S.
Volume grew strongly in every region and versus prior year quarter was up 7% for the total company driven by strong market share performance across all regions.
Our sales momentum is the result of increased investment in demand creation and innovation.
A few examples of initiatives from around the world include: the launch in several markets of our latest Enfagrow children's formulation.
This formulation has been optimized to provide the best possible glycemic index and help sustain mental energy over time by promoting a slow steady supply of glucose.
Further our commitment last year to invest more heavily in the growing optimal category in North America is paying off.
Enfagrow continues to grow at rates well in excess of the North America/Europe segment as a whole.
And our solutions in specialty portfolio has been introduced into Asia over the past 2 years and we now have broadbased distribution across the region.
In the U.S.
again our allergy business under the Nutramigen brand continues to gain market share and on a global basis this part of our portfolio again grew double digits in the first quarter.
Across our global portfolio we successfully offset weakness in emerging market currencies with price.
Pricing contributed 4 percentage points in total to our first quarter growth rate of 11%.
Pricing gains in Venezuela and Argentina contributed 2% of the company's constant dollar growth rate.
I want to note that the North America/Europe segment driven largely by the U.S.
has had a very strong start to the year.
We're very encouraged by this though we caution you against attaching too much importance to segment growth rates within individual quarters.
Turning to earnings I want to point out that all earnings numbers that we'll discuss this morning as well as those detailed in our press release have been recast for a change to mark-to-market pension accounting that we adopted in the first quarter.
People go through the details on the subject but note that our non-GAAP financial comparisons now eliminate any distortion caused by volatility in pension expenses and present an even more transparent view of our underlying operational performance.
Note also that this change has had only a very small impact on our first quarter results.
Non-GAAP earnings were up 16% to $1.02 per share from $0.88 in the first quarter of 2013.
Our gross margin of 63.6% was noticeably strong in the quarter as a result of strong sales performance in our larger more-profitable markets.
Pete will provide further details in a moment.
Strong revenue and operating efficiencies also resulted in a better than expected EBIT margin despite the impact of weaker emerging market currencies.
Our EBIT margin was further positively impacted by the planned timing of promotional activity in Asia and Latin America and strong investment in demand creation in general.
Consistent with our commitment to invest appropriately in the business to support future growth we grew advertising and promotional expenditure in line with revenue in the first quarter.
A&amp;P came in at 14% of sales lower than the approximately 15% we expect for the full year.
This seasonal pattern is entirely consistent with timing patterns we've seen in prior years.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments and start with Asia.
In the first quarter revenue in our Asia business grew 9% on a constant dollar basis over prior year quarter; 6% came from volume gains and 3% from pricing.
The China/Hong Kong business grew double digits in constant dollar sales despite a tough comparison caused by the 2013 export restrictions implemented in Hong Kong.
And performance within our biggest business in Asia was a key driver of volume growth within the segment.
We're pleased to report that we gained market share in China both versus prior year and on a sequential basis.
Though it's hard to quantify we do attribute part of this gain to the temporary benefit from competitors' 2013 supply disruptions.
As expected prices remained stable in China against the prior year.
In the balance of Asia we saw solid growth overall.
Pricing played a relatively more important role than volume helping to offset both rising dairy costs and weaker currencies.
This largely reflects actions we took in the second half of 2013 to help mitigate the impact of dairy costs on 2014 earnings.
As we've said before our Asian businesses are most exposed to any rising dairy input costs.
We continue to see a strengthening of our competitive position in several Asian markets including China and Malaysia while we've stabilized our important business in the Philippines after a difficult 2013.
Our business in Indonesia remains a work in progress but we are committed to the country and to the opportunity.
In Singapore we've begun qualification runs at our newly built facility and we remain on track for commercial production to commence in the third quarter of 2014.
The project is progressing to our planned timeline and budget and people are justifiably proud of what they're accomplishing there.
Full year outlook in Asia remains unchanged at this time with constant dollar sales growth expected at a rate similar to prior year.
I'll turn now to Latin America.
Constant dollar sales grew 21% in the first quarter 11% from pricing and 10% from volume growth.
Pricing gains in the high inflation environments of Venezuela and Argentina contributed just less than 10% to the segment's constant dollar growth rate.
Continued price increases would be needed in both these markets to offset the impact on profitability of rapidly depreciating currencies.
Absent this somewhat unusual pricing impact constant dollar growth for the region was still in the low double digits.
We're pleased with the overall performance in Latin America.
We do face noticeable headwinds from foreign exchange but we continue to execute our strategy.
And as I've said we're making good progress towards established goals.
Growth was broad based and reflective of both higher pricing and market share gains.
We continued to make progress across the region.
In Brazil our infant formula business is growing nicely despite the challenging economic environment.
And our Peruvian business continues to grow in double digits off an ever larger base while our competitive position in Colombia looks set to strengthen for the fifth consecutive year.
We've highlighted the high level of uncertainty seen in Venezuela in our recent public comments.
Despite the uncertain environment we saw strong volume growth within the business in the first quarter.
We don't expect current growth rates to continue through the remainder of the year as we increase our efforts to firstly ensure shipments reflect in market consumption and secondly manage our financial exposure conservatively.
As a result we expect to report somewhat lower growth in Latin America in coming quarters.
I want to emphasize though that this does not affect our confidence in the long-term potential of the region nor does it imply lack of progress towards our longer-term ambition.
In the first quarter of 2014 EBIT was in line with prior year's quarter in the region.
In addition to adverse foreign exchange impact a high receivable allowance for a distributor in Mexico negatively impacted the region's earnings for the first quarter.
But we are still expecting to show strong double-digit constant dollar growth for the full year 2014 with the impact on our bottom line being significantly offset by weakening currencies.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
Constant dollar revenue in our North America/Europe segment grew 9% with our U.S.
business showing particularly strong progress versus prior year quarter.
As mentioned earlier our growing up milk initiative in North America behind which we began investing strongly last year continues to show strong momentum.
And I'm especially satisfied to report solid share gains for our infant formula business.
Success in both of these areas more than offset the impact of a still-weak category that continues to shrink due to declining consumption.
About 4 points of the segment's growth in revenue was a result of timing factors and are not expected to impact full year growth rates.
These factors included inventory -- retailer inventory changes prebuying against promotions and changes to weaker calls [ph].
For the company as a whole these factors added 1 point to our quarterly growth rate.
Notwithstanding these factors we believe underlying revenue growth for the first quarter 2014 was still very strong at mid single digits within the segment.
We're very pleased with quarterly EBIT growth of 25% for North America/Europe.
This earnings improvement was delivered while investment in advertising and promotion in the region increased by 28% in constant dollars.
EBIT margins for the segment were adversely impacted while we remain in investment mode behind our Enfagrow initiative in the U.S.
To help fund these investments we intend to take appropriate actions going forward to protect our gross margins as costs increase.
Based on the strong U.S.
results we now anticipate that North America/Europe constant dollar sales will grow in the low to mid single digits for the full year.
Our expectations reflect continued strong momentum impacted somewhat by tougher comparables in the coming quarters.
Let me talk now about our annual guidance.
And -- By summarizing our 2014 full year outlook for the total company I will say that this morning we raised our guidance and we now expect constant dollar revenue growth of approximately 8% for the full year 2014 up from the approximately 7% on which our earlier guidance was based.
The stronger-than-anticipated performance in our North America/Europe segment is an important driver of the improved outlook.
In addition we see constant dollar growth boosted slightly more than expected by pricing gains in high-inflation markets in Latin America.
We do not anticipate these pricing gains to translate into significant improvements in profitability however.
Based on current exchange rates we now expect changes in currency rates to adversely impact reported sales by approximately 4 percentage points for the full quarter -- for the full year sorry.
We've revised our non-GAAP earnings expectations to between $3.60 and $3.72 a share up $0.10 from our prior guidance.
About 1/3 of this increase comes from strengthening operational performance and approximately 2/3 of the expected result as a consequence of change in our pension accounting.
I'll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide a little more texture to our financials.
Following Pete's section I'll return with some closing remarks before we open the line for questions.
Pete? Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Before I provide additional perspective on our financial results I want to offer a few highlights on the mark-to-market pension accounting change that we adopted during the first quarter.
We released a lot of additional information this morning as the results of the change in accounting methodology including recast financials.
In addition to our 10-Q we filed an 8-K that updates the numbers in our 2013 10-K.
Given that most of our listeners are in the midst of a busy earnings season we issued a second 8-K that summarizes both previous and recast financials that are most critical in updating your financial models.
There are 5 years of annual data and 2 years of quarterly data in that filing.
Pension accounting is not an intuitive subject.
So let me highlight what I consider are the 5 most important points.
First under our previous methodology pension actuarial gains and losses were deferred and amortized into earnings over the expected remaining service period of active employees.
Pension settlement charges were recognized when incurred.
Under the new methodology actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately as a mark-to-market adjustment in the fourth quarter of each year or more frequently if a remeasurement event occurs.
Second we will treat mark-to-market adjustments as specified items that will be excluded from our non-GAAP financials.
These will be reported in corporate other and will not affect our 3 regional segments.
Third as a result of these first 2 factors non-GAAP earnings increase from the elimination of both the amortization of deferred losses and pension settlement charges.
For 2013 non-GAAP earnings per share increased $0.13 as a result of the accounting change from $3.38 to $3.51 per share.
Settlement charges were particularly high last year due to the retirement of several long-term employees.
In 2014 non-GAAP EPS is expected to increase by about $0.06 to $0.07 per share due to the change in accounting methodology.
Note that the impact in the first quarter of 2014 was relatively small at $0.01 per share.
Fourth while we made the change to all of our global pension postretirement plans about 75% of our net liability is in the U.S.
Our Asia and Latin America segments see only minor adjustments in profitability and margins with a more noticeable and positive change in North America/Europe.
Fifth any future mark-to-market adjustment will be largely driven by changes in discount rates.
Increasing interest rates will lead to a mark-to-market gains as was the case in our recast 2013.
Decreasing interest rates will lead to a mark-to-market loss.
Our unfunded net pension and postretirement liability of approximately $160 million measured on an accounting basis would be eliminated if we saw both our asset returns and discount rate increased by a little over 2%.
Please note that this is an accounting change only.
We did not change the asset mix the structure of our plans nor our funding strategy.
Now turning to the P&amp;L Kasper already addressed sales growth so I'll start with foreign exchange then provide highlights as I walk down the income statement and wrap up with a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 11% in the first quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced sales growth by 4% resulting in reported sales growth of 7%.
About half of the foreign exchange impact in the first quarter came from Venezuela and Argentina.
Absent these 2 markets currency effects reduced global sales by 2%.
The Chinese renminbi weakened by about 1% against the dollar during the first quarter but on average there was a slight benefit for this currency compared to the prior year.
If current rates continue for the rest of 2014 we expect to see foreign exchange reduce reported sales by 4%.
That is a bigger impact from the 2.5% expected in our last call.
Venezuela is the key factor.
I noted in our last call that the Venezuelan government announced they would continue to offer an exchange rate of VEF 6.3 to the dollar for higher priority goods including our category.
In January we had expected to use this rate for translating our 2014 financial results although we had recognized the risk by expanding our EPS guidance range.
A second rate available through a government-sponsored auction commonly referred to as SICAD I also came into existence and ended March at VEF 10.7 to the U.S.
dollar.
Based on new legislation we adopted the SICAD I rate for use in our financials at the very end of February.
That led to an unfavorable translation impact in reported dollar profitability in the month of March along with the $0.02 balance sheet remeasurement loss.
There are a couple additional points worth mentioning.
Venezuela delivered about $0.13 in earnings during 2013 caused by high inflation throughout the year with no devaluation beyond the correction early in the first quarter.
We currently expect that this market will contribute only $0.04 to our 2014 EPS a decline of $0.09 per share.
None of that decline was realized in the first quarter which saw both notable volume and pricing gains compared to the prior year.
You may recall we mentioned a significant slowdown in government approvals during the fourth quarter of 2013 to exchange bolivars into dollars.
We used these dollars to pay for imported product from our plant in Mexico.
We are pleased that the government released dollars to us during Q1 at the favorable 6.3 rate which allowed us to pay our Mexican subsidiary and reduce our risk by lowering our bolivar cash balance.
We imported some additional product as a result which helped volume growth.
However we anticipate that sales growth was slow in the remainder of the year and profitability will fall accordingly.
One reason is that the full quarterly impact from unfavorable translation in Venezuela will start to be felt in the second quarter.
Second the quarterly comparisons get tougher moving forward.
Venezuelan sales were up noticeably once we move beyond the first quarter of last year.
And finally our recent price control decree could limit our ability to get additional pricing in this market.
We are currently evaluating the new legislation.
Turning to profits.
In the first quarter we delivered a gross margin of 63.6% up 120 basis points from the first quarter of 2013 which had the lowest quarterly gross margin last year.
Despite this easier comparison this was particularly good performance in light of very strong dairy headwinds particularly in Asia.
As Kasper mentioned strong sales in the higher-margin U.S.
markets the timing of WIC accruals in the U.S.
and lower packaging in nondairy commodity costs were all factors.
We expect to see higher packaging in nondairy costs in coming quarters and this specific benefit will not be sustained for the full year.
We continue to forecast $0.10 in costs associated with the new Singapore facility in 2014 from preproduction startup costs in the first half followed by the impact of low-capacity utilization in the second half.
We had a bit less than $0.02 in the first quarter with the residual $0.08 spread about equally across the remaining 3 quarters.
We now expect full year gross margins to run below 62.5% by 10 to as much as 30 basis points.
This means that gross margins in the remaining quarters of 2014 are expected to average slightly below 62%.
The sequential decline is the result of the reversal of the favorable timing factors seen in the first quarter coupled with higher startup costs from Singapore and the impact of Venezuela.
A lower gross margin will reduce future sequential average quarterly earnings by about $0.06 per share.
Total operating expense came in at 36.9% of sales in the first quarter 50 basis points lower than the prior year.
This drop was expected mainly due to a small gain from the sale of our equity interest in our former Saudi joint venture.
Advertising and promotional spending in the first quarter grew in line with sales growth and was 14% of sales.
We expect higher investment levels as we roll out innovation in coming quarters.
On a percentage of sales basis full year A&amp;P is expected to come in around 15%.
On average EPS will be lower by about $0.04 a share in remaining quarters again relative to the first quarter from higher-demand generation investments.
On a full year basis we now expect operating expenses between 38% and 38.5%.
That's down from 3 months ago when we projected OpEx near 39% of sales.
The new pension accounting is the most significant driver.
2014 EBIT margins are now expected to come within 30 basis points of 24% basically flat on a recast basis for the prior year.
Looking at taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 25.7% compared to 26% in the prior year quarter from a favorable country mix.
On a full year basis our ETR is expected to be about 24.5% the high end of the 24% to 24.5% range previously expected.
The pension accounting change is again the biggest factor.
We're effectively increasing non-GAAP earnings in the U.S.
which continues to carry the highest tax rate in our portfolio.
The 2014 non-GAAP ETR is right in line with the recast 24.4% tax rate last year.
Interest expense is expected to run near $57 million for the full year.
As a reminder we plan to refinance the $500 million in notes due this November possibly in the second quarter.
Ideally we will replace 5-year debt with 30-year bonds which would increase the effective coupon on the borrowing.
As a result interest expense would run as the higher quarterly rate once the refi is completed.
We're pleased that Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our company credit rating this week to BBB+ with our debt rated at BBB.
Previously we carried a rating of BBB BBB-.
To summarize our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.72 per share on approximately 8% constant dollar sales growth.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by about 4% assuming currencies remain at their current level.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was about $135 million in the first quarter after consuming $63 million in cash for capital spending.
For the full year capital spending is expected to remain unchanged at $180 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be about $90 million.
During the first quarter our Board of Directors announced a 10% increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.34 to $0.375 per share.
As a result dividends paid out of the 2014 earnings will run at a level above $300 million a year.
We also purchased 289 000 shares of stock in the first quarter returning an additional $22.5 million in cash to shareholders.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
I'd like to make a few more comments before we as promised open the line to questions.
Firstly we tend to take our record on product quality for granted and doing so would ignore the tremendous effort by coworkers in both our product development and our supply chain across the world an effort to continually deliver on our corporate brand promise of quality.
These efforts cover all activities from sourcing of raw materials to manufacturing.
And in the first quarter of 2014 we maintained our proud record on product quality.
Within our financials this was reflected again in very low levels of waste and rework.
Secondly I want to recognize the progress we made against our growth and innovation agenda.
Critical growth initiatives were delivered on time and with quality.
This includes both initiatives related to manufacturing capacity expansion and the timely execution of planned marketing initiatives.
And finally I'm very pleased with our record sales in the quarter our record earnings and our full year outlook.
We'll continue to invest strongly in demand creation.
We regard these investments as fundamental as they underpin our growth ambitions and our commitment to create value for our shareholders.
And with that we'd now like to open the line to your questions.
Operator I hand the call back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane representing Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question related to North America and the rollout of Enfagrow.
Just if you -- with this early start so far how much of the sales right now are -- could you estimate are repeat sales? How much of it is distribution gain using [ph] pipeline sale and if you could just give any early read so far on where you think the product is taking market share from? So meaning are parents use supplementing this with milk or any other sort of products.
Trying to just to get a sense for what the uptick has been and maybe how big the market can be? Bryan thanks for the question.
I'm happy to answer that.
We've not seen any distribution gains impacting the first quarter in the U.S.
But we do expect that through the year we will have increases in distribution in the U.S.
which will help our sales a little bit in subsequent quarters.
Obviously it's a very insightful question and I can assure you that we pay a lot of attention to monitoring both our trial rates but also importantly our repeat rates.
And I'm very very pleased with the repeat purchase rates that we are seeing of Enfagrow which is really one of the key drivers of our continued ability and willingness to invest in building that business.
So very encouraged on that.
With regard to where the sales are coming from I think we're really -- this is very exciting because we are creating a whole new category really in the U.S.
and I think consumption is largely coming from regular cow's milk which is very consistent with how we've seen this category develop around the world that we're really managing to make parents understand that enhanced nutrition has a role to play in their children's diet well beyond 12 months of age.
And that's very encouraging.
So we're very optimistic about this.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Kasper you mentioned an ongoing Enfagrow relaunch on a global basis.
Is there anything you can say so far about the impact this has had on market share in countries where it is being distributed? And is it something that you've currently launched or have plans to relaunch in China? And I think I know the answer to this but just to ask it anyway is there any reason to believe that if you do launch this new formulation in China that you would be constrained from pricing it at levels different from existing sales of Enfa children's products? Well let me firstly say that we sort of met our routine costs.
We don't really comment on our future plans Matthew.
You probably guessed that I would say that.
But innovating and renovating our product portfolio is kind of just a way that we do business.
It's a -- it's required to stay competitive.
And it's very early days as we go into this initiative.
We've obviously done a significant amount of concept testing and proving of these initiatives and we're pretty optimistic about that the fact that it'll help us strengthen our competitive position where we decide to launch it.
So I'm not sure I want to comment anymore about that.
I mean pricing in -- I said in my prepared remarks that pricing in China was stable with the prior year and I've said I think in previous calls that we do not believe that the kind of price monitoring that is ongoing in China will prevent partly any of the participants in the market from taking price increases and we're certainly optimistic that we'll be able to cover cost increases as we go forward.
But beyond that I don't want to really comment on any specific pricing plans in China or elsewhere for that matter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to close the loop are there any markets where you can say definitively that it has been launched at this point? It escapes me right now.
I think we've -- it's mainly been launched in South Asia and I think Thailand would be the one market that I could highlight.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Pete you highlighted that the pension change benefited 1Q by only $0.01 and that of course corresponds with what's in your Q.
I guess I'm a little confused.
In the press release you say possible future pension gains or losses were not reflected in guidance because they can't be estimated.
I guess I interpret that to mean future guidance is for pensions to have zero effect after 1Q.
And that's where I'm confused because if pensions help by $0.01 in 1Q but you're guiding I think to roughly a 6% 7% benefit from pensions for the year doesn't that sort of imply you are reflecting possible future gains in guidance that $0.06 $0.07 less the $0.01 from 1Q? I know I'm missing something obvious here.
I'm not just sure what it is.
Sure no.
It's quite confusing.
So the $0.01 that I mentioned referred to our non-GAAP results and our non-GAAP guidance reflects the full change that we expect to see with regard to the pension accounting methodology switch.
What I was referring to was on a GAAP basis we can't estimate what's going to go on with interest rates.
So when we come through with this mark-to-market adjustment which is going to be a specified item and only go through the GAAP results and not go through non-GAAP we can't -- our GAAP guidance would not anticipate what that would be.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
That's the missing link.
The next question comes from the line of David Driscoll representing Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I'd like you guys to discuss a little bit more about the Asian sales growth.
So 9% in the quarter and I'm curious if there was a difference between the shipment number and the takeaway number.
And then specifically last year in the first quarter I believe you had a significant effect from a buy-in ahead of the Hong Kong export restrictions that were -- that took effect I think in March.
So can you kind of tie together these various items and maybe explain that Asian constant currency sales growth a little bit more? Yes.
Maybe I'll start David and then Pete you can jump in if you want to comment further.
You're right.
I think the really -- the swing item here is really the prebuying we had against the export restrictions in the base quarter of 2013.
So within these Asian results we saw unusually low sales growth in the Hong Kong business as a consequence of this very very strong comparable that we were lapping in the first quarter David.
So I guess we're actually very pleased with the Asian constant dollar sales growth given that.
Research Division</strong> Would it then be -- is it then logical to say that that first quarter number of 9% it only gets better from here just given the changes in market share that you're seeing? Well I think on a -- we would expect that the Hong Kong number would certainly improve.
Now we had -- we did have strong performance in other markets and I don't want to get into giving quarterly guidance for -- on a segment basis.
But I think directionally your logic is right.
I don't know Pete if you want to add any comment? Yes.
I would just remind you David that on a full year basis we've said that Asia constant dollar sales were going to grow at rates similar to last year which was 10%.
And just to quantify the Hong Kong impact for you in Q1 it -- the very tough comparison versus the first quarter of last year probably reduced the growth rate by about 2 points.
The next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner representing Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Pete as you look [ph] at the children's program here in the U.S.
and you see the contribution of that build scale over time how are you thinking about the margin recovery potential in North America? I guess you're running at a low 20% now versus I guess mid- to high-20s a few years ago.
Just how would you frame the recovery potential over time? We've -- what we've said is when you -- if you look on a restated basis first of all because some of these numbers have changed a little bit and remember that North America/Europe EBIT margins went up anywhere from 30 to 50 basis points as a result of accounting change.
We were running at 22% EBIT margins last year.
We expect to make further progress on this I think in the full calendar year.
And while obviously the Enfagrow progress that we're making is having a positive impact remember we're making very heavy investments to support that growth at this point in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me -- can you see a positive mix shift over time from that children's category growing? I don't expect that the gross margin for North America/Europe is going to change significantly as a result of Enfagrow.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen representing William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about China.
Could you talk a little bit more about maybe growth rates by channel or maybe your focus by channel.
I think there's been a little bit more of an emphasis on your part in maybe baby stores or online sales where you've been underindexed historically? And if you can just provide a little more color on kind of the complexion of your growth by channel? And then second I think the government in China is currently going through a fairly rigorous relicensing process for manufacturers and I wonder if that had completed if there were any takeaways from that? Thanks Jon for the question.
I don't have much news to report on our channel emphasis.
I mean the truth is that all of these channels in China are important.
They're important to us and they're important to everybody else.
And we -- naturally as one does in any business we're quite focused on areas where we are underperforming and we've not hidden from you the fact that we are underindexing in baby stores and we are underindexing in online sales.
And as a consequence of that we are putting in place a raft of initiatives that we have confidence that will help us address some of those imbalances over time.
I do want to say that we're quite pleased with the progress we're making particularly within the baby store environment.
So that's probably about as much as I want to say about channel mix in China.
You're right that there is a -- I would say a broad reexamination going on of the entire sort of regulatory framework that pertains to supply chain operations in and out of China and we're very confident that -- in our future in that department.
We've had good interactions with the Chinese government.
I think they are -- satisfied if not impressed at least but I might even say they're impressed with our operations and the quality standards that we apply and the rigor with which we operate our facilities in China.
So I'm not -- I'm not terribly concerned about this at this point in time.
I think the future is bright for our China business.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll follow up on China.
One thing it seems to be developing is as some of your competitors I guess Wyeth -- sorry Danone and Abbott have had recall issues.
They've kind of introduced new brands or planning on introducing new brands into the market maybe with the older ones or the existing ones occupying more of a mass or lower price point and the new ones coming in at a premium.
I'm just kind of wondering Kasper if you and your team there do you think that that's good for the category with more brands and more tiers among the multinationals? Or is that problematic in some ways? I don't know whether it's good or bad for the category.
I feel very happy with our particular strategy.
I mean we are focusing very much on building the brand we have as opposed to creating new brand properties which will require separate support and management and introduce levels of complexity that I don't think that we are necessarily set up well to handle.
So we like to keep it simple and make sure that we can invest appropriately behind what we have and we'll continue linking back to some of the discussions we had earlier to regularly introduce new signs into our Enfa franchise in China when appropriate.
And we believe that we can continue to build the premium image of that brand while managing the sort of various constraints and whether it relates to pricing or manufacturing or anything else.
So I kind of like the business we have and we're trying to focus on that as opposed to getting distracted by what competitors are doing though it goes without saying that we are observing it closely.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma representing BMO Capital Markets.
Pete you mentioned that nondairy and other packaging costs will start to be a little less favorable for the next 3 quarters.
What about dairy costs? I mean you -- last quarter you talked about dairy costs being favorable in the back half given the increase in powder prices that you've seen in the first quarter.
Is there any change in your outlook for the dairy costs? Not really.
I mean with regard to dairy we have seen some reduction in prices in recent auctions.
We had anticipated in our guidance even 3 months ago that that was going to happen.
But remember what we're seeing right now wouldn't show up in our financial results in our cost of goods sold until very late this year or the first quarter of next year.
So dairy is proceeding for the most part as we expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a follow-up to that question your gross margin came in a lot better than certainly we and I think you had expected to and Pete I think you said your dairy costs are coming in as expected.
You gave a lot of color on what's happening second quarter third and fourth on why the margins will be lower.
But I guess I don't quite get why the upside in first quarter doesn't provide some upside to the year.
Maybe you could refresh me on that Pete? Sure.
Well first probably the most significant factor driving that was lower packaging and nondairy costs.
We had anticipated a lot of that maybe not as fully as we should have but -- and that is not going to stay with us on a full year basis.
We expect packaging and nondairy commodities to -- most of that benefit to disappear.
So to some extent that would really be a timing factor.
The other 2 items I would mention one was as Kasper indicated we saw about 4 points of our U.S.
-- of our North America/Europe growth and 1 full point of the company's sales growth which we feel was timing related in the United States.
And so the -- and that tends to be higher margin business.
That's going to reverse.
And the other thing that I mentioned was the timing of WIC accruals in the U.S.
And every dollar of rebate that you have falls directly through to your gross margin dollars.
And those numbers can really bump around from quarter-to-quarter.
They tend to average out over time for the full year and we did see a favorable timing impact from WIC accruals in Q1.
Inc.</strong> Can you quantify about how much that was in Q1 for the WIC? The WIC was probably for the company as a whole was about 60 basis points.
Your next question comes from the line of Warren Ackerman representing Societe Generale.
This is Warren Ackerman here from Soc Gen.
This is a smaller question.
This is a question on Europe.
I know it's quite small for you guys.
But are you able to comment on how trading is going in Russia or in Poland.
I know that your competitors have been talking about quite a sharp downturn in Russia on the macro.
Are you able to maybe kind of just stretch that out for us? Warren thanks for the question.
I will refrain from making much comment on Russia because I think -- I would be misleading you.
Our business in Russia is very small as you know.
And therefore I'm not sure that you can deduce anything from our particular trends and apply them to sort of a macro view of Russia.
But I'm very pleased with the progress we are making in Poland.
So the Polish business we are quite aggressively trying to build but both are sort of allergy-focused Nutramigen business which we have across Western Europe as well as building our presence in the routine infant formula segment.
And we're making really good progress in Poland both with building market share within the pharmacy channel where we have been strong and with getting to a level of critical mass where we can sustain distribution into the food retail channel.
So we're seeing a number of key accounts well some of the bigger European key accounts come to us and ask us to start selling into them.
So I'm very encouraged by Poland.
Would you be able to give us a number for the organic growth in Europe overall for the quarter just so that we can see where Europe is and kind of back out North America a bit more precisely? Why that's why we combine the segments.
But I've said that the U.S.
business was a strong driver of overall segment performance and maybe I'll just leave it at that.
Operator I think we have time for one more call.
Your final question comes from the line of Diane Geissler representing CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to ask 2 questions if that's all right.
On the China business you talked about market share gains both year-over-year and sequentially.
I was wondering if you could comment on whether or not you see that primarily as a result of the some of the product recalls that some of your competitors had last fall or if you're also seeing consolidation in the category that you're taking advantage of? And then my second question is related to the growing up milk business in the U.S.
Is there provision within WIC to use the vouchers on the growing up milks? And also do your competitors have growing up milks on the market right now or is this an instance of if you build the category you will basically own it? Diane thanks for the question.
Firstly it's very very hard in not only in China but in any kind of market situation to accurately assess exactly where your share gains are coming from.
So I won't attempt to break down what amount of -- what proportion of our increase is coming from the impact of competitors' sort of difficulties last year.
I can simply say that we are happy that we are making progress.
On your second question we're not seeing any impact of sort of overall consolidation in China as yet.
So that certainly I can say hasn't had any impact.
It's not that any brands have disappeared from the marketplace over the last quarter in China.
So the market is in that sense as fragmented as ever.
It's simply that shares are shifting around between brands.
And giving you a bit of grace on the second question there are no WIC rebates associated with our growing up milks business.
And that space is still relatively uncluttered though our competitors in the U.S.
certainly have representation in the space as well.
Thanks.
Operator I think we are closing the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.