Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter and Year-to-Date 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kevin and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Mead Johnson's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections new product launches and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in this morning's earnings release posted on the Investors section of our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to you all.
Thank you for joining us on our call this morning.
I'll highlight the overall operating performance in the third quarter of 2014 and discuss our performance in each of our reporting segments.
Following that Pete will then provide additional details on our financial performance.
And finally before we take your questions I'll supply some summary remarks that will include a reiteration of our previously issued guidance.
Turning now to our performance in the third quarter of 2014.
As you likely read in this morning's press release sales within the quarter grew 7% on a constant dollar basis versus prior year quarter.
At a recent investor conference I spoke about our portfolio and the benefit of our geographic diversity.
Our third quarter performance illustrates this.
With strong results in our North America/Europe segment and sound performance in Latin America we were able to deliver solid revenue growth despite progress in Asia being adversely affected by transitory issues in China.
The diversity of our global portfolio gives us great resilience as we look at our company's performance over time.
I'll address Asia performance in more detail in a moment.
In the latest quarter we continued the introduction of a new and improved formulation and packaging bundle for our Enfa franchise.
And in September we formally opened a new research and manufacturing campus built in Singapore to support future growth in the Asia region.
This investment which includes our first company-owned spray dryer in Asia as well as our newest Pediatric Nutrition Institute represents the single-largest capital project in the company's 100-plus-year history.
Thanks to the hard work of many people across the organization this project was completed on time and below budget.
We've now opened 4 Pediatric Nutrition Institutes in 4 years.
This demonstrates our global commitment to continuous investment in capability building.
Turning back to our financial results.
Our non-GAAP gross margin as expected fell in the third quarter.
It came in at 60.2%.
The impact of a non-favorable foreign exchange environment higher dairy input costs and start-up costs of the new Singapore plant were key drivers.
Importantly as mentioned in our previous earnings call we expect the third quarter to represent the lowest point for gross margin this year.
And it follows we expect to see some sequential improvement in the fourth quarter and the benefit of lower dairy cost begins to impact our cost of goods.
We continued our strategy of strong investment in demand creation and innovation within the quarter.
Investment in advertising and promotion stood at a healthy 14.6% of revenue.
It was reflective of the timing of new product introductions and marketing initiatives.
Non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.93 was in line with the prior year's quarter.
Sales growth and a $0.05 per share nonrecurring tax benefit helped offset gross margin headwinds.
Let me comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments starting with Asia.
Sales growth in our China business adversely affected the Asia region's results.
China was impacted by 3 factors.
Firstly GDP growth in China appears to be moderating.
This may well be temporary and similar to what we have seen in certain quarters in years past.
Nevertheless we are currently seeing growth come into line with that of many other Asian markets.
Secondly in preparation for the introduction of new improved formulations of our Enfamil franchise and a new packaging design we worked to reduce system inventory through the quarter.
This was done to help clear the way for new product to be introduced in October.
As a result our sales to distributors were below retail offtake within the quarter.
Finally our base for comparison in the third quarter of 2013 was somewhat artificially strong due to the impact of a recall by several competitors.
Accounting for these factors at 3% above the prior year quarter constant dollar revenue growth was naturally below our year-to-date growth rate of 8%.
Pricing benefits in the quarter drove 5% growth but due to the China-specific factors just mentioned was offset by slightly lower volumes.
Consequently EBIT for Asia was $186 million in the third quarter compared to $200 million last year.
Higher dairy costs and increased Singapore start-up expenses more than offset the benefit from higher sales.
We increased prices in Hong Kong in the quarter to bring them closer to mainland China prices.
We also made a strategic decision in light of declining dairy prices and a more challenging economic environment to leave prices in mainland China untouched.
Over time however we are confident we will be able to adjust pricing in the mainland to reflect our investment in innovation and improved formulations.
We are continually working closely with the government to ensure we're able to recover these investments over time.
Looking forward we continue to pursue investments in capacity that will allow us to meet our evolving portfolio needs in China.
The China market is developing very fast with new channels and consumer segments emerging rapidly.
As we adjust to this new normal we are confident we can build on our strong base and continue our history of strong growth in the world's largest market.
In the balance of Asia we saw solid sales growth including in our 2 largest markets of Thailand and the Philippines.
Growth was driven by product innovation and stronger pricing.
As mentioned earlier on a year-to-date basis constant dollar sales growth in Asia was 8% for the first 9 months of 2014.
For the full year we expect constant dollar sales growth in the region to remain in the high-single digits.
Turning now to Latin America.
Constant dollar revenue grew 14% in the third quarter 4% from volume and 10% from pricing.
Adjusting for unfavorable foreign exchange reported revenue growth was 1% consistent with our performance in the prior quarter.
Mexico continued to deliver solid growth in both our Enfa franchise and in our specialty and solutions business.
In Colombia we continued to build market share rapidly.
We've consolidated our lead in the premium segment and are now a close #2 in the overall market.
The market is currently characterized by high levels of parallel imports.
Product is being smuggled across the border from neighboring Venezuela where the government keeps consumer prices artificially low by its supportive exchange rate system.
Consequently our results do not fully reflect the underlying strength of our Colombian business.
We are however confident this situation will self-correct over time.
In Peru we made significant progress towards resolving a dispute with a leading retailer.
Consequently we now expect more stable performance from that important market.
And in Brazil we are experiencing a tougher economic environment.
Nonetheless we continue to grow the market share of our premium infant formula business.
Despite taking significant price increases in Venezuela and Argentina we were unable to fully offset the impact of rapidly weakening currencies in both markets.
EBIT for the Latin America segment of $53 million in the third quarter compared to $62 million in the same quarter a year ago.
The variance was due mainly to the unfavorable foreign exchange environment in Venezuela and Argentina.
Higher dairy cost also contributed but to a lesser extent.
For the full year 2014 we continue to expect double digit constant dollar sales growth.
Let me now turn to the North America/Europe segment.
The strengthening performance of our U.S.
business was a clear highlight within the quarter.
Not only are we building market share in our second biggest market but we learned that birth for the first time in more than 5 years were up by more than 1.5% in the first half of 2014 according to the CDC.
In the third quarter revenue growth in the segment was strong at 10% compared to 2013 arguably helped by a somewhat easier comparison.
We maintained our recently strengthened market position in the important and profitable infant formula market.
Our strategy of maintaining strong investment in innovation through several years of relatively weaker market performance is clearly paying off.
And as a further sign of our confidence in the North American market we last week announced a $35 million investment in capacity expansion in Evansville Indiana.
Based on our consistent investment strategy we again saw growth in our Enfagrow toddler business exceed 20% in the quarter.
We're also encouraged by the response from health care professionals to our recent introduction of the Enfamil Reguline product that addresses the market needs for a product that can help reduce constipation in infants.
EBIT for North America/Europe in the third quarter increased by 3% to $67 million.
Strong sales performance was offset in large part by the impact of higher dairy costs and investments in demand creation designed to drive future growth.
On a year-to-date basis the revenue for the segment was up 8%.
As we mentioned following our strong first quarter growth in individual quarters will fluctuate as comparisons vary significantly.
We expect fourth quarter revenue growth to moderate somewhat but anticipate full year revenue growth to come in at or slightly above 6%.
I now turn the call over to Pete who will provide a little more texture on our financials.
Following Pete's section I will return with some closing remarks as well as some further comments on our guidance before we open the line for questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
I'll start my remarks on foreign exchange then provide additional details on earnings and wrap up with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
My comments will be focused on our non-GAAP financials unless I note otherwise.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 7% in the third quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced sales by 3% resulting in reported sales growth of 4%.
Devaluing currencies in Venezuela and Argentina accounted for the majority of the unfavorable foreign exchange impact on sales versus the prior year.
Currency impacts in these 2 markets reduced earnings by about $0.05 per share in the third quarter compared to the prior year including the benefit from settlement and balance sheet remeasurement gains that I'll discuss later.
Currency movements in markets outside Venezuela and Argentina contributed a further $0.03 reduction in EPS versus the third quarter of 2013.
There's been a lot of press attention in the past month or 2 on the broad strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
This has not impacted our full year earnings outlook.
Any adverse effect from these most recent currency movements in Asia and Latin America on our bottom line has been largely offset by the strengthening of the dollar against the euro.
You'll recall that European sales are small for us.
We have greater cost exposure given our plant in The Netherlands which supplies both Hong Kong and China.
Therefore a strengthening dollar reduces our euro-based costs.
Year-to-date currency movements have reduced sales growth by 4%.
For the full year we expect a 4% to 5% sales impact.
The high end of this range would only materialize with a further broad strengthening of the dollar and a much more pronounced devaluation in Venezuela during the remaining months of the year.
Turning to profits.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 60.2% in the third quarter.
This is the toughest year-over-year comparison of any quarter in 2014.
Dairy costs were noticeably higher than the prior year.
This was fully expected and consistent with what was seen in the second quarter.
All 3 segments were affected with the most pronounced impact seen in Asia.
And keep in mind that most of the unfavorable noise from foreign exchange shows up in gross margins.
As important as the year-over-year comparison let me highlight that on a sequential basis gross margin in the third quarter was 160 basis points below the second quarter of 2014.
There were several factors at work.
First there was an unfavorable mix related to our efforts to reduce trade inventories in mainland China.
China sales carry a gross margin higher than the company average.
Secondly start-up costs from the Singapore plant hit their peak at about $0.04 per share in the third quarter compared to about $0.02 in the second quarter.
On a full year basis we continue to expect a total of $0.10 in expenses from the new plant.
Year-to-date we have seen about 3/4 of the total impact.
Since the plant is now operational most of the future start-up expense will be in the form of unfavorable fixed cost absorption until we reach full capacity in 2016.
The final factor that impacted the sequential comparison of third versus second quarter gross margins related to plant performance.
We saw some inefficiencies in the acceleration of our annual maintenance outage at our biggest U.S.
plant which led to unfavorable cost absorption this quarter.
Importantly the third quarter represents the low point for gross margins this year and we expect to see sequential improvement in the fourth quarter as the benefit of lower dairy cost starts to become evident.
On a full year basis gross margins are projected to come in slightly below 62% relatively consistent with the 61.9% reported year-to-date.
Gross margins for the full year are 30 basis points below our earlier expectations due to the manufacturing inefficiencies I just highlighted as well as the mix impact from slightly lower sales growth in China.
Turning our attention to operating expenses.
They stood at 37.6% of sales in the third quarter of 2014 down 170 basis points versus the prior year.
This was largely the result of net foreign exchange gains reported in other income and expense.
In Venezuela we translate our local currency financials using the SICAD I rate which stood at VEF 12 to the dollar at the end of the quarter.
The largest translation impact from a weakening dollar -- bolivar shows up in lower gross margins.
We then recognize a settlement gain in other income and expense when the government gives us access to dollars at the favorable rate of VEF 6.3 to pay for products imported into Venezuela from our Mexican plant.
This was the case in the third quarter of 2014 continuing the trend from the second quarter.
Please note that we do not expect these settlement gains to continue into Q4.
We have successfully reduced the intercompany balance owed to our Mexican subsidiary over the last 2 quarters limiting the upside in coming months.
In addition to Venezuela we saw balance sheet remeasurement gains in other select markets during the third quarter of 2014 compared to remeasurement losses in the third quarter of 2013.
Note that all of these foreign exchange gains were fully expected and included in the earnings guidance last quarter.
Importantly total third quarter demand generation investments when coupled with research and development spending were relatively flat to 2013 on a percent of sales basis.
For the full year we expect operating expenses to run slightly above 38% of sales.
Before turning to taxes I want to highlight that full year EBIT margins will be slightly below 24% roughly consistent with our performance for the past 4 years.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 17.2% in the third quarter and 22.5% on a year-to-date basis.
Included in the third quarter results was a $0.05 per share nonrecurring tax benefit.
During the quarter we were required by accounting rules to release certain tax contingencies from various jurisdictions as the period of time specified in the statute of limitations in certain tax laws had passed.
Based on the onetime benefit our full year ETR is now expected to be about 23% as compared to 24% in our last conference call.
Moving on to a discussion of our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our cash balance stood at just under $1.2 billion at the end of September compared to $1.6 billion in June.
That's the result of the early redemption in August of $500 million in notes due this November.
We funded the debt retirement from the proceeds of a 30-year debt offering completed in the second quarter for this very purpose.
Interest expense grew as expected to $18 million in the third quarter.
This includes a make-whole premium of about $0.01 per share associated with the early retirement of the November 2014 notes.
For the full year 2014 interest expense is expected to be about $60 million.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was about $421 million in the first 9 months after consuming $144 million in cash for capital spending.
Working capital increased to support the growth of the business and in particular inventory grew as we started production at our Singapore spray dryer.
One final point on cash flow.
Capital spending for the full year is now expected to be around $160 million.
This is lower than our previous guidance reflecting the lower cost for building the plant.
Depreciation and amortization in 2004 (sic) [ 2014 ] expense should be about $90 million.
To summarize the third quarter saw a significant impact from higher dairy costs the Singapore plant start-up and foreign exchange.
These factors also have a significant impact on the full year results compared to 2013.
Our 2014 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.72 per share on constant dollar sales growth of about 9%.
Foreign exchange will reduce sales growth by 4% to 5%.
As always there are a number of puts and takes involved in changes to our earnings guidance.
The onetime tax benefit is offset by lower gross margins arising from the mix impact due to slightly lower growth in China coupled with the manufacturing inefficiencies I highlighted earlier.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
In summing up I would like to address the following: the evolution of our seed market strategy; I want to provide context for our earnings guidance; and finally recognize the recent volatility in our stock price.
Firstly you'll remember we embarked on a seed market strategy several years ago.
This strategy was designed to sow seeds for longer-term growth and spread risk across an increased number of markets.
I'm pleased to report that though we are not successful everywhere and we'll continue to evaluate our approach where we are less successful we are making good progress in seed markets of the highest potential Brazil and India.
Both markets continue to demonstrate very strong revenue growth in the most important parts of their portfolio albeit off a still low base.
Now a few words on our full year guidance.
And I refer now to our overall global performance.
We expect full year constant dollar revenue growth of approximately 9%.
While the risks and opportunities within our business are roughly balanced we recognize we are operating in an environment of greater economic and political uncertainty.
Consequently we may experience greater than usual exchange rate volatility.
Hence we are maintaining our full year 2014 EPS guidance and an $0.08 range.
Our non-GAAP earnings are expected as Pete mentioned to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.72 per share.
This reflects a 4% to 6% increase in earnings per share over prior year on about 4% growth in reported U.S.
dollar revenue.
In closing I'd like to recognize the recent volatility of our stock particularly over the last week.
I fully understand the temptation to ask questions about public speculation about our company.
I ask for your understanding however that as in the past in order to avoid misleading our stakeholders or fuel speculation we do not comment on such rumors or press reports.
I remain very excited about Mead Johnson's future and its inherent organic growth potential.
The management team remains focused on realizing this potential and creating value for our shareholders by doing so.
Finally let me express my satisfaction with the way we are managing to grow both revenue and earnings through a very challenging year characterized by unfavorable exchange rate movement and record high dairy costs.
Our people around the world are responding well to these challenges and demonstrating their ability to adapt and meet the challenge of rapid change and I'm very optimistic about our future.
With that we'll now be happy to take your questions.
Operator please open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question about China/Hong Kong or maybe just 2 related questions.
One for the new product that you're introducing into the market in the fourth quarter can you talk about how that product is differentiated? So what the upgrade is relative to the previous product? And also how you're pricing that product versus the previous product? And then second could you just provide some commentary about the competition? I guess at the price point above.
So the superpremium price point and if that at all has affected the price tier that you compete in with Enfamil? Thanks Bryan.
Thanks for your question.
Firstly a couple of things.
I think I mentioned somewhat in the prepared remarks that the product we're introducing in China involves a new formulation with a unique prebiotic blend that we're introducing.
And secondly it involves new packaging design.
And we are bringing that product into the market in October as your rightly picked up on.
We have already launched this product mix in several other markets around the world and we are excited about the response that we are getting to it.
Secondly as to your question regarding the I guess your question went to the super-high premium segment in China.
What we are seeing is that there is an increased amount of competition in that segment and there is I think because of that the emerging or the emergence of some increased pricing activity within that super-high premium segment.
It doesn't significantly affect us and has really not shaped our plans at this point.
I think I mentioned -- I can add to it but you didn't ask the question I don't think.
But let me reiterate that based on the outlook for dairy prices and our desire to work to be supportive of government objectives in China we did decide not to accompany the introduction of the new product with a price increase.
I'm very confident that over time we will move prices in China but we want to be sensitive as to the timing at which we do that.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I was sort of after was if there's price competition at the superpremium tier is there a risk that the price gaps close between the Enfamil the premium tier and the superpremium tier and you begin to see some sort of effect from the competition that's happening above? Are the price gaps still so wide that that's really -- you're somewhat insulated from that? No I think you've got it completely right Bryan with your last statement that the price gap is still very large.
It may shrink from 50% to 40% or even 30% but that's still a massive jump and we are not really seeing consumers jump between the segments at this point.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to switch to North America I guess.
Just one very straightforward question.
Just you mentioned that there was an inventory comparison that somewhat benefited sales growth here in the quarter.
Is there any way to quantify the magnitude of that? And then separately on the Enfagrow launch clearly it's generating a lot of trial and distribution gains during its first year but are there any metrics or anecdotes you can give us on how much ongoing usage it's generating? How trial and repeat have trended over the course of the year? And where they stand or where you stand sorry in building out distribution on the product? Matthew just maybe I'll start with the Enfagrow comment.
We are quite happy.
I think I've mentioned in previous calls that we monitor both trial and repeat very closely in order to make sure that the investments that we are making in Enfagrow which are quite significant have a good chance of paying off.
We're very encouraged by how those 2 metrics which obviously key to any marketing person how they are evolving.
That's very encouraging.
So we really do feel very good about this part of our business.
I'll let Pete give you a bit more texture around the inventory impact in a second but let me just say that remember in the North America business our business model is a little bit different from what it is in most of our international markets in the sense that we ship direct to all the retailers.
And therefore when we talk about inventory movements we are effectively talking about retailers managing up or down their inventory levels.
We are effectively just responding to orders that we receive here and we have very little impact on the timing of those orders.
So I don't know Pete if you want to add anything to it? No.
Certainly there was an impact with some product purchased in the second quarter in advance of a July 1 price increase last year.
But as we look at the year-over-year comparison I would say that the 10% growth you are seeing for the segment the bigger component of this coming from share improvement and the actual performance of the brand.
I can maybe just add since we might get another question on it Matthew that you will have noticed perhaps in our outlook for the U.S.
business and all the North America/Europe segment as a whole that we are projecting full year growth that may be somewhere below the year-to-date rate.
One of the reasons for that is directly linked to this question.
That in prior years we have sometimes seen that the retailers will reduce inventory of non-Christmas-related items in order to make way for Christmas-related inventory.
And it's a very hard estimate for us to give.
Hence we are being a little bit more cautious on the full year outlook than we perhaps could be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And just to follow-up quickly on the last piece just where you stand in the distribution build-out.
I guess what I'm getting at is there's been a strong ongoing benefit over the course of this year that partially reflects just increasing the availability of the product.
Is that something that could effectively repeat itself next year? Or have we sort of run through some of the low-hanging-distribution opportunities for it? We don't think that's going to repeat itself next year.
There's been some contribution but we think it's acceptance of the product as opposed to distribution fill that's driving the performance this year.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Guys it's been a year since the announcement of the investigation into Mead's China unit.
Kasper can you just give us some sense of what the status update is and when we might get some kind of definitive statements from you guys? I really -- David as much as I wish to and maybe I should have included it in my prepared remarks.
I really can't say anything that is not in our current disclosure.
We review and update these disclosures as you now at a minimum on a quarterly basis and more frequently if we feel it's necessary or appropriate.
So I think the disclosure statement is really the most accurate we can -- description of the situation I can give.
These things tend to take a fair bit of time to work through.
So as I've said before we shouldn't be expecting from quarter-to-quarter any sort of dramatic change or for that matter significant movement of the issue.
But we will certainly keep you informed when and if there are material changes to the status of the investigation.
That we have a duty to do so and we take that very seriously.
In the meantime on the medical marketing in China you know that there's a lot of noise in this space.
And I would say just as part of our ongoing business we continue to review practices not only in China actually but around the world just to make sure that we continually raise the bar and that we stay in step with what guidelines and regulations tell us we should be doing.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on China and just ask it seems like we're getting various different data sources/competitors are saying that the China infant formula category growth rate is slowing.
Would just appreciate your take on the overall growth rate in the category.
And then how intense is the promotional environment.
And I think within the question I think the Internet channel is a pretty important one.
You mentioned it briefly in your script but if you could just maybe expand upon the importance of that especially to Mead I think that's helpful.
Thanks David for the follow-up.
Yes I mean I think there's little doubt that the category in China remains a very very attractive category to be in and it's certainly is still growing.
But I think it's also fair to say that it's not growing at the rate that it was perhaps 2 or 3 years ago and it is beginning to look more like some of the higher-growth markets in the rest of Asia.
And we -- that's to be expected really and we have been I think doing a good job of preparing ourselves for that.
We are seeing I guess as all of these transitions happen in China with the reduction in firms that are allowed to compete in the industry and therefore some of the smaller firms fighting for survival as bigger firms are fighting to get into new segments et cetera we are certainly seeing an increased amount of promotional and pricing activity.
It isn't very prominent in the segment in which we compete but it is as I mentioned earlier happening in this kind of super-high premium segment which a lot of companies have rushed to get into without the support of any real signs as we've talked about before.
And everybody's now trying to find their natural position within that.
So then that's maybe about as much as I can say about the price and the category growth in China.
The Internet channel as you rightly say is growing or appears to be growing very fast.
I think there is some element of double counting between the Internet channel and the baby store channel 1x to some degree as a wholesaling channel for the other.
But nevertheless it is a fast-growing channel that is based on the Chinese consumers' desire to purchase fully imported products.
We typically service that need through our Hong Kong business.
And indeed our Hong Kong business continues to perform very strongly benefiting from that same consumer need.
We have said before that we want to strengthen our performance within the Internet channel as well and I alluded a couple of times to the fact that we are in the process of building and creating capacity within our network to support sort of what I allude to as being changing portfolio needs in China.
So you can take that to mean that we clearly recognize that we could compete in China with a broader array of products.
I'm not willing to get into what where and when except to say that the lead times are significant.
So it's not something that one can do over a matter of weeks or even a few months but it's clearly something that we are looking at.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kasper I wonder if you can elaborate a bit on your announcement of the further capacity increase here in the U.S.
in terms of just what's driving that? Why do it now? I mean is it geared around your expectations for growth in births here? Is it related to the toddler milk build-out? Just the background there if you could.
Yes I mean John it's a bit sensitive because it's obviously sort of competitive information.
So I'm going to be just a fraction more cagey than I naturally would like to be with you.
But we are very optimistic about the U.S.
market.
We've clearly seen a very large shrinkage in birth cumulatively over the last 5 years and we would expect to see some rebound in birth as people begin to fulfill their ambitions to have a normally sized family.
So the timing is just opportune.
And as we think about our growth plans and our innovation plans and so on this was the right time to choose to make this investment.
As you can imagine it feels great for the people who work within our U.S.
business.
It feels great for the community in Evansville Indiana.
And we had a terrific sort of response from the press and the community last week when we announced this.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up Kasper.
In addition to the growth in births have you seen any changes in the last couple of months in terms of weaning practices by mothers maybe extending the formula period at all? Is there any change with existing consumers there? No we haven't yet seen that.
Obviously we are watching that closely John but I can't say that we've seen any real turnaround or change in the trend that we've been reporting on for some considerable period of time.
Our next question comes from Amit Sharma with BMO Montréal.
Kasper you talked about taking pricing higher in Hong Kong.
Can you talk about when it was taken? When should we start to realize some of the benefits? And how much was the price increase? And then as a follow-up for the China business also not necessarily China but the emerging market business.
I know you talked about probably a little bit more economic weakness or volatility.
Now when we consider that are you suggesting that there may be more volatility across the regions? Or you are suggesting that the growth rate might come down because of this weakness? Pete maybe I'll let you.
Sure.
The price increase in Hong Kong was in the mid-single digits and allowed us to as Kasper said reduce the gap.
Hong Kong prices have always been lower than the mainland and this helped close it but didn't close it completely.
I think on the second part of your question Amit about sort of the outlook in emerging markets and exchange rate volatility.
I mean we just recognize that there's an awful lot of things going on in the world right now.
There's political unrest in Hong Kong.
Hard to say what the impact will be except I think we all feel that it will be if any impact it will be very temporary in nature.
But there is also the potential that the U.S.
dollar might strengthen against a number of currencies which clearly would give us foreign exchange headwind as we book most of our revenue outside of the U.S.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a little more clarification on Kasper on your growth expectations for China.
I think you said that it will now be -- look more similar to other Asian markets.
In the past I think you've described the growth rate for the category mid-single digit.
What do you think it is now? Do you think it's lower than that? And then also if volume for Asia in the quarter is down 2% it must mean China volume is down more than that.
Can you give us a sense as to how much of the volume decline was the result of the -- just the conscious inventory reduction? Those 2 questions please.
I'll let Pete answer the numbers part of that question Robert but maybe just comment a little bit on category growth.
I think we have -- the formula that we are sort of working to as we think about growth in China is that we believe for several years now that the volume growth in the category based on a relatively flat number of birth and therefore fueled entirely by the number of consumers that are entering kind of the viable part of the population is in the low-single digits.
We then said that to that we then add a pricing benefit that comes from a combination of either price increases or people migrating from lower-price segments towards higher-price segments.
I think that formula still holds.
However as we see an increased amount of activity at the top end of the market and we perhaps see some slowdown in economic growth one would have -- you would sort of expect that that puts pressure on the category.
We still think that the kind of range that you just mapped out is probably not very far from where we see it but it is a reduction versus where it was say 2 3 years ago.
Yes with regard to the impact of reducing trade inventories in advance of the product launch this quarter fourth quarter it would have taken volume from the segment from being down 2% to being up in the low-single digits that factor alone.
[Operator Instructions] Operator? Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand your guidance.
Is what you're saying that you might have raised earnings guidance for the year but that just in case something changes whether it's fundamental or current year related between now and the end of the year.
You want to keep your forecast conservative so that really something needs to actually worsen from here? Or is what you're saying that as FX and as fundamental stands today your guidance reflects those current trends? I think our guidance reflects those current trends but we did have that $0.05 tax benefit which you might say should raise the guidance but it was offset by a 30-basis-point reduction in gross margins attributable to some manufacturing inefficiencies that we saw as well as just the mix impact on gross margins that come from slightly lower growth in China.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to cheat and squeeze 2 into 1.
First on LatAm pricing to catch up with FX headwinds.
Do you think you'll be able to do that? And if so over what duration? And then on tax rate how to think about it going forward? You guys say it was a $0.05 impact.
If we adjust your tax rate for that $0.05 impact it implies sort of an underlying tax rate of close to 21%.
Is that the sort of rate we should think about now that Singapore is brought online? Pete maybe you can take the tax question then I'll comment a bit on Latin American pricing.
Well with regard to taxes I don't know how you calculated the 21%.
I mean the 23% rate that we mentioned for the year includes -- the $0.05 a share is worth $10 million so we'd be at that 24% for the full year absent that.
And what I think we've been trying to message we've done a very good job of reducing the tax rate from 37% now to the 23% that we're seeing this year since the IPO.
But moving forward frankly it's going to be very dependent on how much cash we repatriate to the United States and if we expose lower tax rate earnings into the high U.S.
tax rate.
So we would not anticipate at this point any reduction kind of any significant reduction below that 24% real rate that we're seeing this year obviously depending on what we can do to get cash back here in a more tax efficient manner.
Yes Jason regarding your question on Latin American pricing I think we continue to work very hard to cover depreciating currencies in Venezuela and Argentina in particular with price increases.
But as you know there is a lot of either government control or government interference in both markets when it comes to pricing.
So it is a process that we are working through.
And I think this year I think we mentioned this probably at the beginning of the year in Venezuela in particular our priority has really been on reducing our balance sheet exposure to the Venezuelan market.
We opened the year with a relatively high level of intercompany payables which was exposed to some balance sheet remeasurement at some possible time in the future.
And we've worked really hard and with actually quite significant success to reduce that exposure over the past 9 months.
So I'm very pleased with that.
We continue to drive pricing very hard in Latin America as we need to do.
Whether or not we will catch up and when we will catch up is hard to say because it obviously begins to depend on how exchange rate movements happen going forward.
But we have significant businesses that I'm convinced over the long term will represent very significant value in both Venezuela and Argentina.
We have very strong market shares in both.
They tend to be very cyclical markets.
Sometimes the cycles are long.
Sometimes they're short.
But I'm sure we will see these businesses return very significant value to the company at some point in the future.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll focus on the U.S.
I think at one point Steve Golsby had said that if volumes come back there isn't really much reason why margins in the U.S.
business shouldn't be able to kind of snapback from what was around the time of the IPO 31%.
You've dropped to the low 20s and maybe recapturing a big chunk of that.
So with everything that's gone right in the U.S.
I'm kind of surprised that there isn't more let's say operating leverage to the margins.
And then with the drop in volume over as a function of the birthrates I'm also kind of surprised that you're adding capacity.
I would have thought that your utilization rates in the U.S.
business would have been low enough to absorb some increases for a couple of years at least.
Maybe you could just talk a little bit about that and I'll pass it on.
Eric with regard to your question on margins for our North America/Europe segment which were 22% when they were at that -- you mentioned the number of 31%.
That was before or very early after our IPO and before we actually started allocating some expenses if you will that were sitting kind of at the corporate level that weren't allocated out back into the business.
Our SAP system actually allowed us to manage that a lot more directly.
So we've always said if you go back to look at the margins in 2011 which were closer to 25% that is a better measure of what we'd like to see I think over the longer term.
The thing to keep in mind right now too is that the spending that we have behind the Enfagrow campaign has really increased the advertising and promotion as a percentage of sales above the company average.
And that's being done quite deliberately to try to grow the business.
And I think you should expect us to continue to invest behind that.
It's not something that we said is going to happen.
That category will grow over a longer-term period as practices change but it's not something that's going to happen overnight.
The other thing I would say too is that if you look at the WIC program the bids on those from a collective standpoint for the industry there have been some higher rebates paid.
That has some impact as well on the numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then on the capacity addition versus the utilization rate given the volume drops? Eric maybe I'll take that.
Again I think I apologized in my other remarks for not being more explicit but we don't want to get into it too much except to say that we continue to evolve our portfolio.
We continue to drive innovation.
And some of these innovations have capacity implications for us and we want to make sure we stay ahead of the curve as we see the U.S.
market return to growth.
We've taken on additional WIC commitments and so on.
So it's a relatively modest investment I guess from an overall company perspective.
But symbolically and certainly for the U.S.
business it's a very significant commitment.
Our last question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'll keep it short.
Just given the great shape of the balance sheet and presumably with free cash flow rising with earnings growth and more moderate CapEx with Singapore the investment in the Singapore plant largely behind you what might shareholders expect I guess not over the next couple of quarters but perhaps the next couple of years in terms of deployment or return of cash? In terms of what we've talked about I don't think it's changed particularly Jon.
The challenge we have in terms of acquisitions is a real one.
There's not that many out there but we continue to look at them and that's something that we're going to focus on.
And I think our position is that acquisitions would be the highest use of the cash balances that we have in the company.
If those don't materialize over time I think returning more cash to shareholders is something that we definitely will consider.
I would just point out that there's a fairly expensive cost to that in terms of additional taxes that we have to pay on repatriating cash to the United States to do that but we have the balance sheet to consider that over time and also to consider borrowing more here in the U.S.
Jon I'll just remind you that I think at Investor Day last year we sort of laid out I guess a formula that for our financial ambition.
And I think we said that we see the company delivering revenue growth at or above the category growth slightly above ideally.
We see earnings growing in line with revenue or possibly above.
And we see dividends growing at or above the rate of earnings growth in coming years.
And that's -- I guess that's the kind of formula that we are thinking about when we put the financials together for the business.
Great.
Thank you everyone for attending our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Kevin this ends our call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.