Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shannon and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Shannon and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Mead Johnson’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Pete Leemputte our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuation pricing factors capital spending depreciation and amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today’s conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today’s comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in this morning’s earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
In a moment I’ll first provide some highlight from fourth quarter and full year 2014 before discussing our expectations for 2015.
I will then turn the call over to Pete who will provide more details on our financial performance and our outlook.
At the end of our prepared remarks I will then provide a few summary remarks.
Before I give you the opportunity to ask questions or request clarification.
Let me now turn to our discussion of 2014.
As you likely read in our press release issued this morning we ended the year on a strong note.
Despite accelerating headwinds from foreign exchange we delivered earnings per share slightly above prior guidance and we closed another year of strong revenue growth.
Revenue growth in the first quarter of 2014 was 8% in constant dollars and 3% in reported U.S.
dollars over prior year’s quarter.
On a non-GAAP basis earnings per share for the quarter came in at $0.92 up from $0.82 in the same quarter of 2013.
Throughout the year we sold a value of our geographic diversification.
Despite challenges in individual markets including China we delivered constant dollar revenue growth of 9% for the full year 2014.
Volume contributed four percentage points to our growth rate while higher pricing added five points 200 basis points of growth came from pricing in the high inflation environments of Argentina and Venezuela.
We sold volume growth in each of our regions.
After several years of weakness our consistent investments in North America are paying off.
And our North America/Europe segment grew volume faster than any other region last year.
Latin America continues to show steady volume growth despite challenges in several markets within South America.
And in Asia we sold revenue growth decelerate as performance in mainland China adversely affected results for the broader region.
I’ll address this in more detail in a moment.
We faced significant headwinds from foreign exchange throughout the year.
This reduced our revenue growth by four percentage points when translated into U.S.
dollars.
As a result reported U.S.
dollar revenue growth was 5% for the full year 2014.
The unfavorable trend in the currency markets accelerated in the fourth quarter impacting all three reporting segments.
Turning now to earnings non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.74 for the year were up 7% versus 2013.
Our rate of earnings growth was well above the 5% increase we saw in reported U.S.
dollar revenue.
In light in gross margin headwinds from adverse foreign exchange movements higher dairy cost and start-up cost associated with unused Singapore facility were satisfied with the improvement in earnings.
Our ability to leverage growth in revenue for even faster growth in earnings is a result of our commitment to prudent cost management and the effectiveness of our ongoing productivity programs.
As an example we continue to invest aggressively behind our brands and key innovation projects are found efficiencies through procurement efforts and optimized media strategies that allowed us to meet our revenue goals with marketing spend as a lower percentage of sales.
Before I comment on the outlook for 2015 let me briefly comment on the performance within each of our reporting segments.
Firstly turning to our Asia segment in the fourth quarter our business in Asia grew 3% on a constant dollar basis.
As mentioned previously revenue growth for the region was adversely impacted by our China business.
As I mentioned in our last call we reduced trade inventory in China during the third quarter and early fourth quarter in advance of an Enfa re-launch in late October.
We are monitoring consumer off take following the launch closely and we continue to see retailers reduced inventory or cost categories as they adopt the more cautious start in light of the moderating growth in GDP.
I should also note that our 2013 base or comparison was particularly tough due to the impact of a recall by several competitors in the second half of that year.
On a full year basis constant dollar sales in Asia were up 7%; our China/Hong Kong business grew 5%.
As I stated in the past we are currently under-indexed in the higher growth channels in China particularly the eCommerce and super-high premium segments that focus mostly on imported products.
As we are discussing China just a brief note on the status of our China related investigation.
Our internal investigation has progressed and we’ve shared the results of our work to date with both the SEC and the Department of Justice and we are responding to their request for additional information.
At this time we can’t predict how or when the matter will be resolved.
I’m sure you will appreciate that I can’t provide further details at this point.
Let me now comment on results in the balance of Asia where we saw strong sales growth in 2014.
The Philippines Island and Malaysia are delivered very strong revenue growth based on strong execution and innovation underpinned our progress in all three countries.
GDP growth remains strong across most of Southeast Asia and the fundamental growth drivers for the category and Mead Johnson remain intact.
EBIT for the Asia segment increased as revenue grew in 2014 but the resulting improvement was substantially offset by higher dairy cost that adversely impacted profit margins.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 14% in the fourth quarter of 2014 over the same quarter of 2013 volume was up 3% improve pricing added 11 points of growth to the quarter.
On a constant dollar basis revenue was up 16% for the full year volume increase by 6% and higher pricing contributed 10 percentage points to our growth.
Foreign exchange movements once again impacted results for the segment the strengthening dollar and resulting depreciation of local currencies reduced U.S.
dollar sales by 15% in full year 2014 more than offsetting pricing gains.
Most of our pricing gains were seen in Venezuela and Argentina despite this in aggregate we failed to fully offset currency weakness through price in these two high inflation countries.
Our performance across Mexico the Caribbean and Central America provided a highlight within the region.
We experience strong revenue growth as we re-launched our Enfa franchise and introduce seven new products towards the end of the year.
Despite a tough economic environment in Brazil we continued to grow our market share of the infant formula category there.
Our children’s business which is more sensitive to economic fluctuations had a difficult year however and overall performance was less strong then it was been in recent years.
EBIT for Latin America segment compare unfavorably to prior year quarter and full year this was primarily due to the foreign exchange and to a lesser extent higher dairy cost.
Let me now turn to our North America/Europe segment.
In the first quarter of 2014 the North American/Europe segment delivered stronger than expected revenue growth.
Constant dollar revenue was up 14% on prior year’s quarter and on a full year basis constant dollar revenue increased 10% over 2013.
Pete will provide further detail on this in a moment.
The improve performance in North America and Europe was driven by strong share gains in infant formula as well as continue progress towards our stated goal of building a strong and profitable children’s business with Enfagrow.
We invested substantially behind our North American brands in recent years and we are now reaping the rewards.
Sales of Enfagrow grew by over 20% in 2014 with demand pricing rapidly in both the United States and Canada.
While we rarely highlight our European business due to its relative size I should mention that European profits improve substantially in 2014 and revenue growth was similar to that of North America.
Our 2012 restructuring that refocused our efforts on our specialty business continues to payoff.
Revenue growth was driven by share gains within a growing European allergy segment.
EBIT margin in the segment improved substantially during the year driven by pricing gains and our turnaround in Europe.
Before I handover to Pete let me now wrap up with our perspective of 2015.
We look forward to another year of solid sales and earnings growth despite the tougher global macroeconomic climate.
Those three important factors to keep in mind as we think about 2015.
Firstly let me address our expectations for revenue growth.
We expect revenue growth in constant dollars of around 7%.
We expect lower commodity costs and currency related inflationary pressure on government in many countries will combine to create a more difficult pricing environment even as we introduce innovations.
Conversely we are hopeful a stronger economic climate in the United States will allow us to continue to recover through price the investments made in innovation and product improvement over the past five years.
Secondly going forward we expect our profit margins to benefit from lower commodity costs and the weakening euro.
That said approximately 75% of our sales are booked in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar.
While many of our costs are dollar denominated.
So despite our expectation for margin improvement as we move through 2015 there will be some offsetting effect.
Thirdly and finally we intend to continue to invest behind the product innovation in marketing initiatives at a level consistent with our growth ambition.
I’m excited with our plans for 2015 and look forward to sharing more details with you as we move through the year.
So to repeat we expect full year constant dollar sales growth to be around 7% pricing will likely make a smaller contribution to sales growth benefit in 2014.
And based on some improvement in expected profit margins we estimate non-GAAP earnings per share for 2015 to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.
I’ll now turn the call over to Pete who will provide more detailed commentary on our financial results and our outlook.
I’ll then return to provide some closing remarks before we field your questions.
Pete over to you.
Thanks Kasper and good morning everyone.
Kasper addressed constant dollar sales growth so I’ll focus first on foreign exchange.
There has been a lot of press about foreign exchange accompanying earnings reports for multinationals.
So I’m going to get into a bit more detail on the topic that I might otherwise have done.
While there is no job that our fact has become a more significant headwind.
Please keep in mind that our EPS guidance range still anticipates good leverage of sales growth.
After discussing currency effects I’ll walk down to income statement providing highlight on both our 2014 results and our 2015 guidance.
I’ll then share a few noteworthy items on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis.
As Kasper detailed constant dollar sales grew by 9% in 2014.
Foreign exchange reduced full year sales growth by 4% resulting in reported sales growth of 5%.
The dollar started to strengthen noticeably in the third quarter and this trend accelerated in the fourth quarter.
The stronger dollar reduced EPS by about $0.28 during the full year of 2014 including both translation and balance sheet re-measurement impacts more than doubled the impact we experienced in 2013.
Note that we mitigate the impact of foreign exchange through higher pricing.
There were two critical factors that worked.
First we saw very significant devaluations in Venezuela and to a lesser extent in Argentina.
These two markets accounted from a two-thirds of the total earnings degradation from foreign exchange in 2014.
Despite taking significant price increases in both markets we could not fully offset the impact of rapidly weakening currencies.
The second factor relates to the Chinese renminbi.
In the past I have pointed out the natural currency protection from the ongoing strengthening of the renminbi when other currencies in Asia and Latin America devalued.
This was not the case in 2014 for the first time since our IPO renminbi weakened slightly against the dollar on a full year basis.
In a prior three years from 2011 through 2013 renminbi strengthen by about 2.5% on average.
So there was no favorable offset from this important currency last year.
We expect to see adverse foreign exchange impacts continue in 2015 based on the recent and pronounced strengthening of the dollar across a very broad basket of currencies in Asia and Latin America.
A weaker euro helps to reduce the impact on our bottom-line since we export product into China and Hong Kong from the Netherlands but the breadth and magnitude of the decline elsewhere outweighs the euro benefit.
Over the last three months the dollar strengthened by an average of about 3% for the company.
Practically every market was affected including China.
As a result we believe our largest market will continue to contribute to unfavorable foreign exchange in 2015.
If exchange rates remain at their current level but allowing for some continued modest devaluation in Venezuela and Argentina later in the year.
We expect foreign exchange to lower sales growth by 4% in 2015.
And the same basis earnings per share would be reduced by at least $0.13 relative to 2014.
Another one percent strengthening of the dollar against all currencies where we operate will lead to further reduction in EPS of above $0.05 per share on a full year basis just from translation only.
I want to mention a bit more about Venezuela.
The conditions in Venezuela continue to deteriorate with the drop in oil prices.
You may recall we use the SICAD I exchange rate which currently stands at about VEF 12 to the dollar to translate our financial statement.
For Mead Johnson the government provided access to dollars at the official rate of 6.3 which results in a favorable cash settlement currency gain when these funds are received.
We use these dollars to pay our Mexican manufacturing operation to products imported into Venezuela.
We believe that will be a reduction in these cash settlement FX gains in 2015 for two reasons.
First we enter the New Year with the lower intercompany payable from our Venezuelan subsidiary and second over the past quarter we’ve seen this slowdown in access to U.S.
dollars and expect those to continue given the significant revenue shortfall faced by the government.
The complicated situation in Venezuela by itself adds another significant foreign exchange downside risk for the company.
Turning to profitability we delivered a gross margin of 61.9% in the fourth quarter up sequentially from 60.2% in the third quarter as we started to realize the benefit from lower dairy prices.
On a full year basis gross margin was in line with our guidance at 61.9% yet down 170 basis points from 2013 with higher dairy cost adverse foreign exchange and Singapore start-up cost more than offset higher prices in productivity efforts.
Cost savings from productivity stood at about 3.5% of our cost of goods sold slightly above 3% target.
Turning to 2015 we expect gross margin will approach 63.5% for the full year consistent with the level seen in 2013.
Lower dairy cost of the key driver keep in mind that spot dairy prices are reflected in our cost of goods sold on a seven month lag.
We expect continued quarterly improvement in gross margin on a sequential basis as we progress grew 2015.
Higher dairy prices last year affected Asia more than any other geographic segment.
As a result the 2015 gross margin improvement will be most visible in that region.
Finally cost associative with the start-up with the Singapore manufacturing facility produced earnings by about $0.10 per share in 2014.
Given that the plans is now operational and increasing throughput steadily we expect to see that expense cut in half to about $0.05 in 2015.
We anticipate a further reduction in start-up expenses in 2016 when the plans reaches full capacity.
Last year operating expenses came in at 38% of sales down 160 basis points from 39.6% in 2013.
On a constant dollar basis we increased demand generation investments including advertising and promotion sales force and marketing expenses by about $50 million on top of record spending in 2013.
But these investments still grew at a lower rate than recorded sales.
It is worth noting that R&amp;D spending continues to be strong at 2.5% of sales last year.
Other income and expense also drove favorable operating expenses measured on a percent of sales basis in 2014 versus the prior year.
The cash settlement currency gains in Venezuela that I mentioned earlier was one item at work along with the benefits associated with the sale of our equity interest in the Saudi joint venture to Almarai.
For 2015 we intend to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business through demand generation spending.
In addition we will now have the benefit from the Almarai sale and we expect lower cash settlement gains in Venezuela.
As a result operating expenses are anticipated to come in around 39% of sales.
Given the assumptions I just outlined of both gross margins and operating expenses 2015 EBIT margins should approach 24.5% up from 23.8% in 2014 and the highest EBIT margin for the company since 2009.
Looking at taxes our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 22.5% in 2014 which included a $0.05 per share non-recurring tax benefit that we recognized in the third quarter.
Without that benefit the normalized rate would have around 23.5%.
That’s a bit better than our prior guidance for 2014 and that is a penny or two to fourth quarter EPS versus earlier expectations.
Our 2015 global ETR was estimated to come in about 24%.
This anticipates increased benefits from the new Singapore facility but also our plans to repatriate more earnings from outside the U.S.
Moving on to interest expense 2014 was a productive year on the financing front.
We refinanced $500 million in notes due in late 2014 with new 30 year bonds at a very attractive rate significantly extending our long-term debt maturity.
We also increased our revolver from $500 million to $750 million while securing lower fees and extending the maturity in additional three years.
In 2015 we anticipate interest expense will be just under $60 million.
To summarize our 2015 non-GAAP guidance we expect constant dollar sales growth of 7% this year with foreign exchange reducing sales growth by 4%.
As a result reported sales wound increase by about 3%.
Turning to segment performance 2015 constant dollar sales growth in Asia should be similar to the company’s overall level of growth around 7% which is consistent with 2014.
However we expect that pricing will contribute less to growth in 2015 on lower commodity cost while volume growth will be stronger.
As a result the quality of our growth in Asia should improve.
In Latin America we anticipate that constant dollar sales growth will be in the low to mid-teens.
Turning to North America/Europe during 2014 we added two new WIC contracts gained non-WIC market share for infant formula and increased our distribution for Enfa growth.
We do not expect to see the same gains in 2015.
While we obviously strive for higher market share the unprecedented 2014 performance is not likely to repeat.
In addition we believe that a few retailers built their inventory late in the year which contributed to our strong fourth quarter results.
As a result we are forecasting 2015 growth for North America/Europe at a rate below that for the company on a constant dollar basis.
Non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.90 to $4 per share growth of about 4% to 7%.
The lower end of our range assumes a slightly more pessimistic foreign exchange environment among other factors while still allowing EPS leverage relative to sales.
Please note that we expect tougher comparisons in the first half of 2015 this of June in part to more favorable performance seen in the first half of 2014 both in China and with the more favorable exchange rate environment.
The timing of capacity expansions will help comparison to a big extent in the second half of the year.
Just the quick comments on the specified cost excluded from our non-GAAP results we saw unfavorable $0.13 per share hit from our mark-to-market pension liabilities in the quarter.
This is largely attributed to the adaption of new actuarial mortality tables that’s required of most companies.
In addition further softening in interest rates also had an impact.
Wrapping up with our balance sheet and cash flow our cash balance was $1.3 billion of the end of 2014 up about $250 million from the prior year.
Note that cash held in the United States was about $215 million down from $360 million in the prior year.
This is what drives the need for greater cash repatriation from abroad during 2015.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $607 million during 2014 up 7% from the prior year.
The change was mainly from lower capital spending and higher earnings as we completed the Singapore construction mid-year.
Higher cash flow in 2014 allowed us to increase our dividend by double digits to $1.50 per share.
For 2014 capital spending is estimated about $175 million consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $100 million up from $92 million in 2014 as well have full year depreciation on the Singapore facility.
With that I’ll now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Pete.
As I think about our achievements in 2014 I reflect on a year in which we re-launched our Enfa franchise in many markets with new include formulations and a fresh look.
We expanded our liquids portfolio into seven new markets in Asia and Latin America and we completed the rollout of our key specialty formula across Asia.
We also continue to build our capabilities opening a new spray dying facility in Singapore and breaking ground on other important capacity expansion projects in both Europe and United States.
As we look forward to another exciting year for our company we will continue to execute against our core growth strategies and stated priorities our commitment to continues innovation behind our core products and plans the growth of our children nutrition franchise and the continued investment in the quality and relevant of our products to children and parents.
We continue to pursue these strategies organically and through selective inorganic activities when opportunities arise.
I would like to conclude my comments by acknowledging the exceptional efforts of my Mead Johnson colleagues around the globe.
Together we delivered strong performance in 2014 and we are committed to driving further growth in 2015.
So that I would like to handed call back to our operator Shannon so we can open the lines to your questions.
Shannon back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Please standby for your first question.
Your first question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Bryan.
Good morning Bryan.
I guess I’ve got a question just – or two questions I guess related to China.
One was just – Kasper you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that you were monitoring the Enfagrow launch and that retailers I guess were tightening inventory or maintaining tight inventory levels based on some assumption maybe that the market is slowing.
So if you could just expand upon that just in terms of whether there has been a material slowing in the market whether that’s just a conservative stance.
And then just related to that if I remember correctly when you launched Enfa – or when you launched a new product in China it didn’t come with a price increase and with the exchange rates maybe working against you in China is there a chance potentially to contemplate some price increases if that’s sustainable? Thanks.
Thanks Bryan.
Those are excellent question I may just for the benefit of the rest of the audience just mentioned that – we didn’t re-launch just our Enfagrow product but we restaged really the whole Enfa range in late October or early November.
And obviously we are staying very closely to how that is performing.
It’s a wee bit early to sort of commit ourselves to giving you an indication of performance but we are pretty confident based on what we’ve seen in other markets around the world.
My comment regarding reduction in retail inventory I think is fairly consistent with what you’ve heard many other companies in the consumer products space allude to over the past few weeks and months.
It’s clear that this slowdown in the Chinese economy is causing most business people including retailers to take a more cautious stance and I think it’s also fair to say that the retail trade in China but really at right across Asia has for several years being characterized by very very high levels of inventory.
I’m glad to say that I think we are at the more conservative end of the spectrum when it comes to allowing retailers to buy inventory and so I’m not trying to signal any significant sort of abrupt change in the coming months but we are clearly seeing retailers managed their purchases quite carefully.
So I hope that helps a little bit.
That’s helpful.
And then just in terms of pricing just – if the exchange rate works against you over time is there a chance – just the prospects to try to price some of that away? I think to be candid Bryan I think is going to be challenging and at least in the first half of the year because I think authorities around the world as their currencies weakened relative to the dollar are likely to experience sort of inflationary pressure in the general economy.
So they are likely to take a strong interest in pricing I think and then secondly they are likely to be very tuned into the fact that commodity costs have come down.
So though the dynamic you are reflecting might lead you to conclude that we would see some pressure on our margins.
I think we are going to be helped to a great degree by falling commodity prices as we move through the year.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question is from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
Pete you made this great comment about lower price expectations in ‘15 versus what you saw in ‘14.
But just to be super clear and maybe to clarify Bryan’s question it is positive pricing in 2015 despite this beneficial dairy side.
Is that a fair statement? Yes that’s a fair statement.
So then low pricing is something like 1 to 2 points that’s the ballpark we are talking about? Yeah I don’t want to give into it.
And then just keep in mind too as we’ve gone through 2014 we pointed that we had a couple of points of price benefit even on the company level from Venezuela and Argentina inflation.
It’s been very significant there.
So that will affect that number too.
Okay.
Kind of the heart of what I want to understand today is the fourth quarter volume decline in the Asian segment of negative too.
I kind of generally think that investors don’t ever expect to see a negative volume number in that line just given the emerging market nature there; rise of the middle class the movements to infant formula from breastfeeding.
Can you talk about what’s the underlying growth rate kind net of all these effects and maybe if I could just throw one other piece of confusion into this question.
We hear the local companies in China talk greatly about the slowdown in the category but they appear to be being a very negatively affected by the growth of the Internet channel which appears to be to the favor of the multinational companies like Mead.
So can you work this into the answer in terms of kind of what kind of what underlying growth ought to be for maybe the category and then for Mead on a go-forward basis? Yeah David.
I’ll attempt to answer couple of those things.
Firstly I should point out that volume growth on a full year basis was plus 2%.
But irrespective of that I think we would still ordinarily expect to see higher volume growth which I think is really your point and I concur with that and it’s really entirely driven by the change in the China environment and we’ve said I think we have been fairly explicit about the fact that we are not currently participating a stronger as we would like to in the highest growth channels particularly the eCommerce channel which is saving heavily imported brands mostly out of Europe and Australia and New Zealand.
And then secondly the slowing environment in China is clearly sort of hitting everybody.
So it’s really a China specific dynamic and I would be even more explicit about that.
I would say it is a mainland China specific dynamic whereas I would say the rest of Asia for us has been pretty much business as usual which as you know is very positive.
Okay.
I’ll pass it along.
Thank you so much.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Hi thanks guys for the question.
You talked about reaping the rewards in the U.S.
from past investments but you are also going to I think invest a lot of the windfall from cheaper dairy into marketing.
So can you just talk a little bit about that balance – how we think about that I understand on the one hand you don’t want all the gross margin to flow to the bottom-line.
But on the other hand there are some diminishing marginal returns on each extra dollar of marketing.
So any color there on how much you plan on reinvesting and your thoughts behind that would be appreciated.
Ken thanks for the question.
I mean we really plan our investments in demand creation on a – with a sort of bottoms of approach.
So we don’t spend money just because it becomes available.
We spend what we think it takes to execute our marketing and innovation program and at the right kind of quality.
And I think we will continue to invest in the U.S.
market in particular I think we’ve seen in the last 12 month or so that our persistence during five years of downturn where we really did not materially strengthen our investments is now – those investments are now paying off.
Without those we wouldn’t see the growth particularly in our children’s franchise that we are seeing and I would venture to say we would receive the share gains in our infant formula business that we are seeing.
So we remained committed to that.
I don’t want to get into giving a specific range of A&amp;P spends because I think it will fluctuate up and down from individual quarters and individual years.
But I think we are investing at a healthy level to support our growth ambition and we will continue to do that.
I am sorry if that sounds a little bit evasive it’s not intended.
But… That’s okay.
I’m going to try and pin you down a little bit with a follow-up if I can.
Yeah if you look at historic trends and where we’ve been in the last couple of years and so you are not going to be dramatically different from that.
So help me understand then and I’ll let it go after this but your gross margin is going to go up by 160-ish – 150 160 basis points.
Your operating margin is going to go up by – what is that 70 basis points roughly? So where is the delta help me understand a little bit where that delta is in the spending that you are adding to SG&amp;A.
What I had said in my comments you’re going to expect to see expenses in total go up by about 100 basis points and that reflects demand generation spending not just A&amp;P sales force digital marketing efforts things like that across the company.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Ken.
Your next question comes from Warren Ackerman of Societe Generale.
You may begin.
Hi Kasper it’s Warren Ackerman of Societe Gen.
Could I turn the questioning a bit to North America? It was an amazing year for you guys in North America/Europe up 10% up 14% in the quarter.
You flagged three factors in your prepared remarks share gains expanding toddler and U.S.
retail inventory adjustments.
Just wondering whether you could maybe break those out for us in the quarter and then on the guidance on North America for 2015 you are talking about below the group average of 7.
Is that just a comp issue or is there anything else going on in terms of moving parts? Thank you.
Sure with regard to the North American growth you are talking about the quarter.
We did see heavier shipments at the end of the month and it’s very hard to us to say is that inventory build or not? We think some piece of it would be.
And it’s probably on the order of about $10 million which would say maybe five points of growth or so in the quarter would be that – about 1% for the full year nothing big.
Toddler continues – Enfagrow continues to grow.
Kasper mentioned in 20% growth for that it’s roughly 10% of our business so you are getting a couple of points from that in the rest would be share gains but WIC from those two new contracts that we had the biggest which was Florida and also non-WIC share.
And your second question – I’m sorry.
It was just about the comp.
You are saying the North America/Europe will be below the average for 2015.
Is that just because of the comp in terms of the distribution build of Toddler or are there any other kind of factors which mean that North America I mean it’s still going to be a good number but obviously much less good than what we saw in ‘14.
Yeah I think what I mentioned is the share gains that we experienced were exceptional and you cannot count and we cannot count on adding that much incremental share every year.
So we added the Florida WIC contract we don’t sit here and anticipate something that big quite honestly to be other than portfolio and we get some non-WIC share gains from that as well.
So it’s a combination of the share gains distribution for Enfagrow was a piece of it which won’t repeat and then there was about a point or so coming from that retail – retailer inventory build.
So that – when you add all those together would bring it in place.
Okay thanks Pete.
Your next question is from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi thank you.
I was trying to look at the Asia guidance for 2015 and it appears to assume volume growth – mid-single-digit maybe 5% or so to get to the 7% that you are talking about for the segment.
Are you expecting a pickup in category growth in mainland China or is this just easier comps against the retailer inventory reductions that were happening? How conservative or aggressive do you think this overall assumption is for Asia top-line? We think you know the range of numbers that you are describing is more consistent with that what we have historically been able to deliver in Asia net of these kind of via adjustments that we’ve seen in 2014.
So I think Robert that’s a – you know that’s an entirely achievable.
We do of course expect to have some tailwind from the comps in the second half of the year consistent with what we said about retailer inventory reductions in China but that of course presupposes that we are at the end of that.
So I just want to through in that caveat.
And I would add that remember we are going to have tougher comps in the first half of the year as well.
So I think from an overall perspective I don’t consider that guidance to be necessarily easy to achieve.
Yeah and I would agree and I think that’s one of the push backs that we get on the stock is that with China slowing there may even be a spillover into GDP growth in other Asian markets.
And have you gone as deep to figure out or think through whether you need to gain share again in order to achieve this top-line in Asia because I think the first half is also tough because you also have continued comparisons against the recalls last year as well.
Have you held the share that you picked up in China? A lot of questions there.
Robert I think those are good points to discuss I mean the first point I’d make and a sort of a macroeconomic level is just to observe that the rest of Asia is not very closely linked to China from a trade perspective.
So as you know much to the consternation of many of the Asian governments there is relatively little trade inside of Asia.
So we think GDP growth in the rest of Asia is more likely to be driven by any recovery in Europe and the performance of the U.S.
economy which is where the bulk of their exports go.
I think we feel – obviously we feel confident in the guidance otherwise we would have given different guidance but I think you are thinking about it in the right way from a kind of volume versus price perspective.
We will continue to keep you posted.
We are very mindful of the fact that we will face headwind in translating our revenue into U.S.
dollars and that would have a sort of a significantly offsetting effect on any margin improvement that would otherwise come from commodity prices reducing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Robert.
Thanks Robert.
Your next question comes from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Thanks for the question good morning.
Hi John.
Kasper it’s been a little over a year now since Mead increased its efforts behind toddler milk in the U.S.
And I guess given where you are right now just wondering if you could speak a bit in terms of trial and repeat purchases versus your expectations.
And I guess to the extent that you are seeing some pretty good sales in your current outlets any opportunity to go and expand distribution maybe in new outlets more than your initial plan.
Thank you.
Yes John.
I mean as I alluded to in my prepared remarks Enfagrow now for the second year in a row and grew by over 20% a year.
So I feel delighted with the pay off we are getting on that investment or that strategic decision to put incremental dollars behind that initiative.
We think it’s probably need biggest opportunity for both the U.S.
business and frankly speaking for the industry in total.
We are happy with this support.
We are now beginning to get from retailers and we will continue to invest behind it.
We were assisted to some degree in 2014 by distribution increases as a result of our delivery – our strong growth in 2013.
We think we probably exhausted most of that upside.
So we are not – I think Pete mentioned it briefly in his statement it also we are not anticipating additional distribution increase in 2015.
But we are expecting a continued momentum in existing outlets.
And though I’m not prepared to share with you the exact details in terms of trial and repeat I can only say that as of general rule we would not invest strongly in a product where we did not see strong repeat purchase scores.
Thank you Kasper.
Thanks.
Your next question is from Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Hi Amit.
A couple of quick clarifications.
Pete the FX – EPS sensitivities that you gave was those prior to any impact from pricing or post-pricing? Those were prior to any impact from pricing.
Got it.
And then Kasper the birth rate in U.S.
last quarter you talked about 1.5% increased? Is that trend still continuing or strengthening a little bit? Yeah.
We don’t have any update on the birth rate that would change that outlook Amit.
Okay got it.
And then one more Kasper if we look at your R&amp;D spending and it’s been rising pretty consistently with four new pediatric nutrition centers in the last four years.
Should we expect some bit of acceleration in how you bring new products to the market perhaps accelerated the timeline and get a little bit better pricing from a mix perspective versus what you have done historically? I think our lead times have really driven by two different elements Amit.
It’s driven by frankly speaking how long it takes us to make up our minds what we’re going to do and then how long it takes us to execute.
We are constantly working on getting our information systems and a market research functions and processes to support faster decision-making and that’s frankly the easier part to work on.
The time to execution is largely driven by the regulatory framework in the countries in which we compete.
And in that area we have the relatively limited scope for improvement though we are exploring options to save that timeframe.
But I don’t think that you should expect significant reductions in cycle time from us much as we would all like to see that.
So the higher R&amp;D spending will just show up in better quality of innovation not necessarily… Yeah I think it’s in quality and in the range of innovations that we are able to bring to the market.
Got it thank you.
Thanks Amit.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Thanks for the question.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matthew.
I just wanted to come back to China and the re-launch.
If we look beyond the inventory dynamics and sort of the broader market slowdown that you’ve talked about how would you characterize more generally the consumer reaction and how you think its impacting market share trends in your core distribution channels and just sort of follow-on to that eCommerce was definitely – clearly it’s still a headwind.
Is 2015 the year when you really start addressing this in a material way? Well I think we certainly are driving eCommerce with substantial efforts.
Matthew it’s hard to determine exactly when we will breakthrough to the point that it provides a significant impact on our global results but I can assure you that it’s not for lack of efforts.
I think it’s also very important when you look at I have I think said a number of times on these calls as you look at these four primary channels that really exist in China – sort of the grocery trade in China the baby store trade in China the eCommerce channel and then the importation of product through Hong Kong which are really the four channels that we think about when we look at China.
It’s very important that you don’t think that these can be added together to arrive at a total market.
There is a lot of cost channel trading taking place between those channels.
So to the extent that you see coincidence raising sales in baby stores you will automatically see the same rise in the internet channel because that is a major sourcing point for the baby store channel.
So we are vary of that.
We believe that it’s likely that there would be some slowdown in the growth particularly in the baby store channel and that’s consistent with what we’ve seen now really since the beginning of 2013.
That channel went through a very rapid phase of expansion as additional stores were opened.
But it’s much less clear to me that on a same store basis that channel is growing as fast as it used to be.
But the internet channel remains interesting.
It remains a high priority first and we have a number of initiatives in place that aim to strengthen our profile in that channel.
Okay.
And then just to go back – the impact of the restaging – is that having the intended effect on market share in baby stores or in mass? It’s a little bit early to say with – we sort of got about – I would say about eight weeks from the date we started maybe 12 from the date we started shipping.
So I’m a little bit vary of committing myself to announce right now other than to say that in other countries where we’ve launched the same marketing mix.
We’ve been very encouraged by the results we’ve seen.
Okay alright thanks guys.
I should also mentioned as we talk about these four different channels in China that I’m obviously aware that other people share these – this same channel data in different ways with you.
It’s your job to look at all the sources of data.
I would encourage you to add in the Hong Kong data into that channel data because it has a significant effect and that channel is also growing faster than the China total average.
Okay thanks.
Great.
Operator we have time for one more call – one more question before we closed the call.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Thank you [indiscernible].
Pete a question on the Venezuela impact I think you said there was a total of $0.28 of headwind between the balance sheet re-measurement and the translation.
Can you split those two and my guess – obviously this is very tough stuff but the black market rates are probably multiples weaker than what you’ve been translating I mean what kind of risk are we kind of talking here to your guidance if you are forced to I guess deal with a much lower but a new rate? Well the first if you look back in the transcript comes out I indicated that the guidance that we have incorporates a modest devaluation – think 10% or so in Venezuela.
And there is three things going on there each of which cost us about $0.02 a share for the company.
One is the impact of just translating to know our local currency result into dollars; one is the impact of the fact that we have more cash sitting there because the government hasn’t made dollars available to us for the last three months that means one of devaluation comes through.
There is a bigger balance sheet re-measurement impact and then the third of those cash settlement gains when we get cash paid – cash basically dollars made available to us at the rate of 6 versus the 12 that were using for translation.
Each of those is about $0.02 in ’15 versus ’14.
So some is already included in there but it could be worse than that to – certainly the black market rate is much higher.
In the past I think it’s been high as 50 versus the 12 that’s the government SICAD 1 exchange rate.
But the volume on that is high quite frankly and you would always expect I think to see a black market rate when currency isn’t allowed to trade freely at a super high level.
But there is real exposure and I would say we try to think through that in the guidance range that we’ve given that’s one item but it certainly could be worse than what would be included in our guidance and I don’t want to quantify anything specifically for it at this point but it could be noticeable.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up Kasper I’m sorry to make this the last question but the SEC investigation – that was focused on the China pricing or promotion and so you provided them with a response and now they have asked for more? Is that what I should conclude? I don’t think I’m prepared to go much beyond what I’ve already said except to say that I think the interactions we are having – as one would expect in these kinds of situations we have – we said before that the internal investigation focused on certain expenditures that would made in connection with our marketing in China that may have reached certain laws or regulations and was in breach of our own policies.
But I was not trying to signal anything particular beyond what my exact words said.
So beyond that it’s probably too early for me to try and get into it in more detail Eric because I’d run the risk of sort of guiding you or misleading you and that will keep you all – we keep you all posted as this moves along and obviously it’s a priority for us to try and bring it to resolution as soon as we can.
Okay.
Maybe I’ll just finish by sort of adding on to your question about Venezuela and say that – it’s important to understand that our product category just like the pharmaceutical imports here that go into Venezuela is considered a high priority category by the Venezuelan government which indicates I think a likelihood that they will continue to strive to make a foreign exchange available to importers of our category and that they would be very reluctant to see the category being priced and say the black market rate which would obviously have an enormous inflationary impact on product pricing in the marketplace.
So though we are always cautious about Venezuela and careful I don’t want to send a signal that you should be kind of panicking about the topic.
Okay.
I appreciate the responses.
Thank you.
Okay.
Shannon this will now conclude our call for the morning.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.