Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Amanda and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Mead Johnson’s First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Charles Urbain our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuation pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality our growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our Website in connection with today’s conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or on our Website at meadjohnson.com.
Today’s comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appears in this morning’s earnings release posted on our Website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us on this morning’s call.
I’ll begin with highlights of our first quarter global performance before discussing each of our operating segments and our expectations for the full year.
Then Charles Urbain who was recently appointed to the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer will provide additional details on our financial performance and finally I’ll return to provide a few summary remarks before we as usual open the line to your questions.
Turning now to the first quarter of 2015 constant dollar sales growth at 3% came in as expected and we delivered record level non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.09 in the quarter.
Price contributed 3% to revenue growth while as we lapped very strong quarters in the United States and China businesses volume was unchanged from the same quarter of prior year.
As our rate of revenue growth was significantly affected by performance in the 2014 base year I firstly remind you that during the first half of 2014 we benefited significantly from competitors supply disruptions in several large Asian markets including China.
Secondly you will remember we mentioned in earlier calls that retailers built inventory in the United States in the first quarter of 2014 to support certain weak contract gains and again in the fourth quarter of 2014 as the increased inventory ahead of the holiday season and plan promotions in January.
These factors affected sales comparisons and we saw orders lack consumer uptake in the latest quarter.
We believe inventory levels are now back to normal and at sustainable levels.
I’ll provide further details on each of these factors in the segment discussion.
Like many other companies with significant business outside of The United States we show a great of an anticipated adverse impact from a strengthening dollar on recorded sales this quarter as we translated local currency revenue into dollars.
As a result U.S.
dollar revenue for the quarter was 2% below prior year’s quarter.
The impacts of foreign exchange on our income statement provide a good sag way to a discussion of gross margin.
As indicated in our January call we saw gross margin improves significantly in the first quarter.
The improvement was larger than anticipated as we benefited from weakness in the euro.
This euro weakness kept mitigate the impact of currency swings on profitability and earnings Charles will expand on this part later.
Gross margin at 64% was up 210 basis points from the prior quarter.
In addition to our margin being helped by the weaker euro we benefited from lower dairy input cost and the carryover effect of pricing taking through 2014.
Similar to the pattern seen in most of our prior years the timing on marketing initiatives met that expenditure on advertising and promotion activities was relatively more modest though still healthy in the first quarter.
We normally focus our discussion on non-GAAP earnings however I’d like to provide a brief update on our previously reported investigation into certain promotional activities within our China subsidiary.
This item impacted our GAAP earnings in the quarter.
In our last earnings call and in our 10-K filing we stated that the company had shared the results of our investigation with both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.
Our discussions with SEC regional staff have now progressed significantly since our last call and in the first quarter of 2015 we’ve taken an accrual of $12 million.
This amount reflects our best estimate of disgorgement fines and penalty cost that maybe paid to resolve SEC concerns about alleged actions China.
I want to emphasize that discussions with both the SEC and the DOJ are ongoing and no settlement has been agreed to-date.
Therefore there can be no assurance that the ultimate amount paid by the company to resolve that matter will not exceed the amount accrued to-date or that other sanctions will not be imposed.
Retuning now to non-GAAP measures earnings per share dropped 7% to a $1.09 from a $1.02 in the first quarter of 2014 higher gross margin lower operating expenses and a lower effective tax rate more than offset the impact on revenue of currency swings.
I’m very encouraged by the resilience of our global business.
Around the world our teams are working hard to asset the external environment appropriately adjust pricing where opportunity exist and drive productivity aggressively.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our reporting segments starting with Asia.
In the first quarter constant dollar sales went in line with the prior year quarter the quarter was adversely impacted by the effects on sales civil unrest in Hong Kong.
I'll return to this topic shortly.
In aggregate pricing gains are 1% within this segment were offset by slightly lower volume in the quarter.
As expected lower commodity costs have created an environment that discourages price increases.
Let me now disaggregate our sales results and provide some color surrounding performance in key markets.
Before I comment on other markets including our business in Mainland China let me draw your attention to the ongoing situation in Hong Kong.
Many of you will be aware that the civil disturbance has had the effect of deterring mainland residents from visiting the territory.
I remind you that the majority of our sales recorded in Hong Kong are to mainland visitors.
Many businesses including our own have seen sales adversely impacted.
As local protests and unrest have escalated we observe slower uptake late in the quarter.
Sales in the territory in recent weeks have been down around 20% versus our fourth quarter 2014 average.
As you might imagine we are closely monitoring the Hong Kong situation.
We believe it will be temporary.
And I've great faith in the Hong Kong and China governments ultimately resolving the situation.
That said it's hard to predict exactly when the situation will return to normal.
Let me now turn to our business in Mainland China.
I'm encouraged that we made progress versus first quarter of 2014.
We continued to improve our execution and refine our plans to strengthen our presence in channels where we currently are under-indexed.
As previously said we are committed to creating a more flexible and more diversified business in China.
This is largely about channel and sourcing strategy.
I've also alluded to our desire to mitigate risks associated with the disruption to China-Hong Kong trade.
Given recent events in Hong Kong I'm very pleased to report that we have this month begun direct shipment of fully imported finished goods from our Netherlands facility into China.
The product offered is identical to that sold in Hong Kong clearly flagged as produced in the Netherlands and will be distributed through e-tailers our own team old store and select baby stores.
The launch is a combination of work begun more than 12 months ago.
In contrast to some alternative internet based import models.
Importation will be done by the company itself in full compliance with Chinese quality standards regulations and tax source.
Production capacity in our Netherlands facility will increase over the next few quarters and support our outlook for better growth in the second half of 2015.
We look forward to providing consumers with more choice and more ways in which to interact with our business.
You will recall that we described inventory reductions in China in our January call as it related to the fourth quarter of 2014.
We did not see further trade destocking in the latest quarter and we are satisfied with consumer uptake of our recently restage Enfa newer complete products.
Let me now comment on the balance of Asia.
Our Philippines and Malaysia businesses delivered solid growth driven by recent newer complete launches and investment to support this innovation.
The comparison for Vietnam was affected by the government imposed price reductions in mid 2014.
Because of this prior year event we expect performance matrix in the second half of 2015 to be more reflective of the progress we are making in the market.
Our Thailand business also faced the difficult comparison from first quarter 2014 when we were benefitting from a recall in late 2013 by our biggest competitor.
As you can tell we saw a confluence of rather unusual events relating to the external environment.
In combination these events had a depressing effect on Asia's growth within this quarter.
We are confident none of these are the last in nature and that we will return to a more normal growth rate in the second half of 2015.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 13% in the first quarter over the same quarter of prior year.
Volume was up 3% and pricing added 10 points of growth.
Foreign exchange movements continued to significantly impact results of the entire segment.
The impact of a strengthening dollar and resulting depreciation of local currencies more than offset benefits from pricing gains.
Pricing gains in the high inflation countries of Venezuela and Argentina contributed 900 basis points to the region’s constant dollar growth rate.
However I’m pleased to note that both countries posted very solid double-digit volume growth and that the pricing gains in Argentina more than covered the impact of currency depreciation there.
We continue to gain market share in most of the region with our premium Enfa brand.
The brand is being supported by the same newer complete innovation we’re rolling out across Asia.
As you are likely aware economic conditions in Brazil have deteriorated sharply over the last year as a result we’re seeing weakness in our brand at children’s business.
However we continue to see strong growth in our Enfa franchise as we establish ourselves as the leading premium infant formula brand in Brazil.
We saw strong re-bounce in growth in both Colombia and Peru.
Both markets had a difficult year in 2014 when they addressed unique challenges.
From cross-border trade in the case of Colombia and from a deteriorating customer relationship in the case of Peru.
We made good progress on putting both issues behind us as a consequence these businesses are seeing growth restored.
Let me now turn to our North America Europe segment.
Constant dollar revenue in this segment was up 3% on the prior year’s quarter driven by share gains in North America and price increases taken last year.
Volume for the segment was unchanged compared to a strong base year.
In the United States volume was adversely impacted by a fourth quarter inventory build amongst leading retailers.
The build-up laid in 2014 was highlighted in our description of 2014 full year results as having contributed to a strong fourth quarter.
This incremental inventory was fully consumed in the first quarter and going forward we expect sales to be more reflected of consumer demand.
Secondly sales in the first quarter of 2014 driven by certain contract wins resulted in a tough comparison this quarter but importantly we continued to gain market share in North America and Europe and we now have market leading positions in both the United States and Canada.
In Europe we made a decision to exit the Russia market.
The Russian market is characterized by intense competition and high operating costs in a deteriorating economic environment.
This action is consistent with our decision to focus on claim where we can win in Europe with focus on the allergy segment and making only selective place in routine infant formula.
This European strategy continues to payoff.
Once again we delivered double-digit constant dollar growth within a very large but shrinking European market.
Let me now summarize our 2015 full year outlook.
We continue to expect revenue growth around 7% on a constant dollar basis.
In this segment Charles will outline how we now anticipate a slightly stronger headwind from foreign exchange.
However as our cost structure continues to benefit from a weaker euro and lower dairy costs we now have an improved outlook for growth margin for the full year allowing us to maintain our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance in the range of $3.90 to $4.
At the same time we anticipate investing more aggressively in demand creation in the coming quarters.
Before I hand the call over to Charles let me briefly introduce him to those of you who don’t know him.
Charles began his careers in order service Price Waterhouse before serving in various tax and finance positions in Schlumberger.
He then joined Bristol-Myers Squibb where he progressed through a series of local regional and global treasury in finance roles before serving as Chief Financial Officer for Mead Johnson while we were still a division within the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
From that role he was promoted to various business leading roles and has run each of our operating regions prior to his most recent role as Chief Development Officer where responsibility for the company’s M&amp;A strategy human resources and external affairs.
Charles has been quick to pick up the range in his interim CFO role and I know you are enjoying your interactions with him.
I’m very grateful that Charles has accepted this role as he is a perfect partner to help me to build and mentor our next generation finance organization.
Charles I hand the call over to you.
Thank you Casper and good morning everyone.
Having had a long and enjoyable history that we and Johnson both on the commercial side and earlier in micro and finance I’m very pleased to be in the interim CFO role.
As many of you in the early days after the IPO and look forward to renew those acquaintances.
Casper noted that our annual reported dollar sales growth is expected to be slightly lower than the previous guidance due to the impact of the stronger dollar and the translation of sales from local currencies.
So I’ll begin my prepared remarks with the brief discussion on foreign exchange as it impacts the quarter and outlook for the year.
I will then provide highlights on key sales and expense side as I walk down the income statement and I’ll wrap up with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on a non-GAAP finance results and references to the currency impacts of the effects of the currency fluctuations on the translation of local currency financial statements into dollars.
Moving to little discussion on foreign exchange and this really represents our perspective on the foreign exchange environment which is both pertinent to our discussion of the first quarter and balance of year.
We expect to see adverse foreign exchange conditions throughout 2015 as the dollar is generally forecasted to continue strengthening for the remainder of the year.
With exchange rates which we remain at the current level and allowing for some continued modest devaluation in Venezuela and Argentina later in the year.
We would expect foreign exchange to adversely affect growth by about 5% for the full year 2015.
We experienced the similar impact from foreign exchange fluctuations in the first quarter.
While it is clear that FX has become the most significant headwind in the translation of sales bear in mind that they are potential offsets.
For example a weaker euro helps to reduce the impact on our earnings.
We have a large manufacturing operation in Europe that when combined with the relatively low local revenue base makes us a net beneficiary of euro weakness.
In the last several months we have seen a significant slowdown in Venezuelan Government approvals to exchange bolivars into dollars to pay for product that we bring into the country and exposed bolivars cash balance is increasing as a result.
We will consider limiting exports to Venezuela in order to manage our overall exposure to that country.
We are closely monitoring our exposure and we’ll continue to evaluate options with the most recent facts and circumstances.
I will now begin my review of the income statement beginning with sales performance.
For the first quarter constant dollar sales grew 3% foreign exchange reduced sales growth by 5% resulting in lower report of sales of 2% versus the prior year quarter.
The U.S.
dollar continue to strengthen during the quarter and its effect from the translation of the local currencies impacted all reporting segments.
The Venezuelan bolivars and the most recent had the most significant adverse impact on sales but most currencies were impacted notably the Mexican Peso and the Chinese Renminbi.
The impact of increase pricing particularly in Latin America partially offset the impact of weakening currencies.
Volumes were in line with the prior year quarter on an aggregate basis.
North America and Latin America sales grew in constant dollars and Asia sales were in line with the prior year as pricing gains offset small declines in volume.
I’ll now move on to factors discussing the impacting our gross profit.
The gross margin was 64% in the first quarter up 210 basis points sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2014 and slightly up from the first quarter of 2014.
Lower dairy costs and the impact of pricing with the key drivers of this improvement.
Pricing gains were primarily the impact of CARIAGA prices take in last year.
In our last conference call we cautioned that we’ve lowered their cost it would be a more difficult pricing environment even as we introduce innovation.
This can already be seen in our first quarter results with pricing contributing 3% compared to last year annual pricing gains of 5%.
Well dairy cost and aggregate have decreased quite sharply.
It is worth noting that the there is a range of cost reductions depending upon on the sourcing region and several dairy components have in fact increased in cost.
It should also be noted that non dairy commodities which represent around 60% of our cost of commodities have in fact increased versus the prior year quarter.
In total the composite reduction and Mead Johnson commodity cost is in the high single digits.
Overall we are very pleased with the strong gross margin in the first quarter and we now believe that the annual gross margin will be approximately 64% keep in mind that sport dairy prices are reflected in our cost of goods on the 7 months lag.
So the current spot price takes us through November.
Moving on to operating expenses the first quarter operating expenses of 36.6% of sales was similar to the prior year quarter of 36.9% on a Constant Dollar basis total demand generation investments roused at similar rate for sales.
Please note that sales force marketing and other demand generating cost are included in this total.
Within demand generating expenses advertising promotion spend was 15.2% of sales.
Historically these investments are lower in the first quarter of the year.
We expect significantly higher investment level starting in second quarter as additional innovation and promotional campaigns are launched.
To conclude my discussion on operating expenses for the full year we reiterate our intention to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business to higher demand generating expense.
As a consequence we anticipate our operating expenses for the year to be approximately 59% of sales which EBIT slightly above 24.5%.
I’ll now briefly speak about our taxes and effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 22.5% in the first quarter compared to 25.7% in the prior year quarter.
The lower rate is the result of the favorable geographic mix of the earnings.
On a full year basis we expect the ETR to be slightly better than our previous guidance of 24% as the favorable earnings mix in Q1 may not fully prevail for the full year.
Moving on to factors which would impact EPS guidance in the non-GAAP basis we continue to expect Constant Dollar sales growth of approximately 7% this year with the foreign currency reducing sales growth by about 5%.
As a result reported sales would increase by 2%.
As you look at key factors which could impact EPS performance in the balance of year there are several factors which should be considered.
And additional adverse foreign exchange impact on sales which I referred to earlier would reduce earnings but is projected to be fully offset by slightly higher growth margins and a lower tax rate.
We anticipate cost tailwinds through remainder of the year that I again withdraw your attention to the other commodity offsets highlighted earlier in my remarks.
Higher advertising and promotions standard in the reminder of the year which will coincide with our key commercial activities.
It is anticipated that investment will peak in quarter two with increases of at least 400 basis point about quarter one levels taking our first half spend to around 15% of sales.
Through non-GAAP earnings guidance continues to be in the range of $3.90 to $4 a share which is growth of about 4% to 7% versus 2014.
The lower end of our range continues to see more pessimistic foreign exchange environment among other factors while still delivering EPS leverage for sales.
As a reminder growth rates and investment levels will continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter reflecting the timing of our initiatives.
I will now wrap up with the high level overview of the balance sheet as a introductory comment I believe its worth noting that we have a very high return on invested capital with a return on invested capital greater than 40% and over 100% net income converted in to free cash flow in the first quarter.
Of course these measures can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter but this remains a remarkably strong balance sheet.
Our cash balance was $1.4 billion of the March 2015 up about $114 million from the prior year end.
Note that cash held in the United States was about $205 million.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $228 million in the first quarter after consuming $46 million in cash or capital investments.
For the full year capital spending expectations remain unchanged for about $175 million this is consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around 100 million for the full year.
During the first quarter our Board of Directors announced a 10% increased dividend which should annualize to approximately $1.65 per share.
As a result dividends paid out the 2015 earnings are expected to around at a level above $320 million a year.
With that I will now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Charles.
Charles mentioned the growth rates and investment levels will vary from quarters to quarter.
In summing up today’s call I want to emphasize our focus on long term growth.
As we evaluate our performance we continue to focus on the long term and on strengthening of our portfolio.
Over the past year or so we’ve launched newer complete innovation platform in 8 of our 10 largest markets.
Wherever we’ve introduced this innovation it has helped strengthen our brand and our business.
At the end of 2014 we introduced ready to drink products in several new key markets to diversify our offering to consumers and improved convinces and just this month we are introducing fully imported Enfa products into China to satisfy consumer desire for imported quality.
Each of these initiatives speaks to our focus on driving long term growth through innovation.
I want to recognize the many people throughout Mead Johnson who would have recent important initiatives.
During my recent webcast technical presentation I outlined four key factors that were important to our outlook I’d like to briefly reiterate these before we take your questions.
Firstly I mentioned the effects of foreign exchange with over 70% of our business in emerging markets and more than 75% of sales in non U.S.
currencies.
Any change in exchange rates has a significant impact on our top line.
Secondly we will benefit from favorable dairy input cost through March of 2015; dairy prices impact our income statement with a 7 to 9 months lag.
This gives us and you great visibility to future margins and allows us to plan investments accordingly.
Finally outside our two largest markets of China Hong Kong and the United States we are well diversified.
However these two markets account for more than half of our sales.
Conditions in the United States continue to improve and our competitive position remains strong whereas the China Hong Kong market is changing rapidly.
We see some challenges in the near term especially in Hong Kong.
But we see many more opportunities in the China Market as it continues to evolve and change and reinvesting aggressively around the world and within China to take advantage of emerging consumer trends.
As we begin our question-and-answer session let me acknowledge your interest in the progress we are making to watch solution of our China related matter with the Securities and Exchange Commission ended prominent of justice.
I ask you understanding of my inability to go much beyond my prepared remarks in answering any question on this topic.
As usual we refer you to the company’s disclosure within our 10-Q filing and commit to you that this is reviewed regularly to ensure you get accurate and timely information.
We expect full year constant dollar sales growth to be around 7% and non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.
In summary we remain confident 2015 will see us once again deliver strong sales in earnings growth consistent with our long term financial ambition.
I’ll now turn the call back to the operator.
So we can open the lines to your questions.
Amanda over to you.
Ladies and gentlemen we are ready to open the lines up for your question [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Just two questions on China the first one is regarding Hong Kong.
As I understand it the protests are related to the local Hong Kong people’s irritation with the parallel trade.
You talked a lot about this some time ago when there was other issue there when the government was going to change how many cans you could take across the border.
But what I want to understand is are there are out of stocks of infant formula at the Hong Kong stores and is this a key problem for you or is this parallel trade beyond the infant formula category? David thank you for your question.
I think the whatever you say discontent amongst local Hong Kong residents go probably much beyond the cross-border trade.
I think there are political motivations to do with the sub-inspection about the level of sale that populous has in the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive et cetera which you can imagine I don’t want to get too far into but I think it is more than a trade issue which makes it a little bit more difficult to predict when and where and how it will be resolved.
I want to be very clear that there are no significant out of stock issues in Hong Kong.
The industry I think has done a good and responsible job working with the authorities to resolve the out of stock issues that led to this initial restriction on parallel exports.
Those issues are now being monitored regularly by the authorities and I know that the authorities are satisfied I think with the industry as a whole but extremely satisfied with Mead Johnson’s performance on this issue.
Okay.
Last question for me is just on China and your internet strategy.
So I’m still a bit confused as to how to have confidence that Mead will aggressively or play very well on to this whole massive movements for infant formula on to China internet.
I respect your comments earlier about this shipment that begin this month.
But maybe you could just help us understand that is that enough and kind of why do you think it is enough if the shipments from the Netherlands facility will be kind of all it takes to get your internet sales at levels commensurate with your market share in break in order? I think David it’s all about making progress versus where we are and I don’t expect that there will be any immediate fix to this situation.
However I’m very confident that we’re making progress and we are closing gaps in our portfolio in China that will allow us to play better.
So sort of specifically what our strategy involves is working through the major e-tailors in China such as JD.com et cetera and offering these products in our tea mall store.
But I also want you to bear in mind that there is a lot of cross channel trade happening in China.
So a large amount of the sales that you see reflected in data as the internet sales are in fact sold for further resale through the baby stores and we obviously have the ability to go direct to those baby stores rather than going through some internet based intermediary.
So I feel good about the strategy.
I have previously expressed concern about all the business models which I perceive to be more fragile and perhaps unsustainable that involve sort of export or importation into China to private individuals or product that is non-compliant and evasive of Chinese [indiscernible].
We are not intending to join that business model.
We are trying to setup a business model that will allow us to play in China over the long run.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
I guess by first question just as a follow up.
Charles you mentioned selling maybe I missed it.
But you say you’ve got this decline in the dairy cost and you said the other inputs are up.
So your total inflation basket as it stands now in 2015 is expected to be what? As high single digits on total commodities.
If you are talking total commodities it’s down high single digits.
Okay.
So the non-dairy is up high single digits but the total basket is down? No Eric.
Let me try clarify that for you.
So our total cost of commodities on apples-to-apples basis is up 9% dairy is down and non-dairy is up slightly and that includes agricultural oils et cetera that more heavily used than dairy in our products.
So 60% of our commodities are non-dairy.
But in aggregate commodities will be up in high single digits.
Okay and then I guess to follow up on David’s question.
Kasper can you talk a little bit I realized kind of trying to see the end market in China is a very very difficult at the moment.
But can you talk a little bit about the super-premium product? I think for the last call or maybe it was the call before that you said that the super-premium products were promoting pretty aggressively.
Are you kind of still seeing that? Is that having a material impact in the market or on your product launch? It’s not affecting our product launch.
I mean I can sort of I can expand a little bit more on the initiative that we have just launched into the market.
As you know we are not playing in the super high premium segment and I previously outlined the reasons why and the conditions under which we would consider playing in that segment.
The product we are launching in the months of April so we’re launching it right as we speak.
It’s a fully imported product which would be priced depending on the individual SKU.
It will be priced 10% to 15% or so the above our locally manufactured product which will allow us to pay the appropriate duties to bring it into China – offer a highly competitive price and maintain a gross margin profile that is not similar to our local business.
And so I realize that you are not playing in the super-premium and for what sounds like logical reasons but are they still -- that collective part of the category are they still being price competitive? I think you had mentioned taking? Yes we are seeing a fair amount of experimentation David I think particularly by the people who have entered that segment later.
I think they are experimenting skill with ways in which they can offer a differentiated and competitive offering.
And certainly some are testing to see whether a slightly more aggressive price point within that sort of bracket of price products that would offer them an advantage.
Our next question comes from Brian Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
I guess I wanted to just maybe clarify something related to introducing the fully imported product into China and maybe tie it back to David Driscoll's questions about the Internet strategy and I guess my impression has been part of the growth of the internet channel in China has been driven by the idea by the availability of fully imported product and it’s easier in some ways to get it over the Internet than it is actually find it on the shelf at a reasonable price point.
And I guess that the idea now that you have a product that you can bring in fully imported and sell in either channel right? You could sell it on in through the baby stores you can sell it online.
That’s right.
Importantly it’s fully – it’s approved for sale right which is a big distinction I think.
Isn't that really sort of the strategy here? It almost -- as long as now you have got a product that you can bring in and you have full control of the distribution you are indifferent in terms of which channel it goes in but that’s really the sort of the big difference here and am I missing something there? No I could not articulate it any better than you’ve done Brian and I think it’s a perfect understanding of our strategy and somewhere you would have been at events recently where I have highlighted both the difficulty of anticipating the evolution over the next two years or three years of the China market and hence our emphasis on creating a flexible business model that allows us to be agile and adjust to the consumers preferences essentially and our goal would be to – for us to be in an equally strong position whether the consumer wants to shop on the Internet or they want to go to a local baby store also that matter they want to go to the local super market.
And then just as a follow-up to that and I don't want to take up too much time.
It’s just you built a plant in Singapore which I guess presumably would have been at least partly would have been supplying the idea would have been supplying China and now you are bringing product in from Europe instead.
So does it all effect the utilization of that plant or was that plant never really meant to service the Chinese market.
Thank you.
No it doesn’t affect the utilization of the Singapore plant.
The Singapore plant first of all is not currently producing finished goods.
It is simply producing base powder which is an input for finishing plants in the rest of Asia both in China and in the Philippines and in Thailand.
Largely what we did was that we built that plant to in sources the base powder that was being manufactured by using Asia by third party manufactures.
So we are not anticipating any impact on utilization of that plant.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
Kasper I wanted to clarify on with more important product coming into China now through the Netherlands plant does that over time maybe reduced the need for mainlanders to over Hong Kong by price index to begin with.
So maybe derisk the Hong Kong business long term and then secondly just in the U.S.
on the [indiscernible] market.
I think since the initial launch you’ve been a bit tempered in your outlook for distribution potential after that launch.
But it looks like the same store over the last is a very strong at least there is some incremental distribution engaged to date.
How are you thinking about distribution of the next step in U.S.
is that becoming a larger market maybe you would have thought may be six months ago? Yes I think John you are picking up on a good issue and clearly by offering a product in China that is identical from the same manufacturing site as the product we are selling in Hong Kong.
We are expecting to see a significant amount of cannibalization between those two businesses.
However having said that we are expecting that this will be a net positive over all business.
Mainly because servicing the need for imported quality in China solely by the Hong Kong distribution channels.
Limits distribution really to a kind of the Southern half of China.
You might imagine that it’s not a very good or effective way to servicing demand in Shanghai or Beijing or even in the West of China.
So net-net we certainly think that this is the right way to goal.
I also want to stress I mean obviously we didn’t have the great foresight to anticipate the disruptions that we are seeing in Hong Kong right now.
But I want to sort of stress the risk mitigation element of this initiative as well.
You can follow up with me if I didn’t answer that properly.
But I want to address your second question as well.
I think we continue to be both excited with the potential of the info growth toddler product in the United States as well as the progress we are making with it.
We’ve seen very significant growth in our distribution of this product as a consequence of the encouraging uptake really that the retailers have seen over the past 12 to 24 months.
I think most of these distribution gains are probably behind us and I don’t think that we anticipate to see the same number of gains in the 12 months going forward.
However as you’ve might imagined we monitor sort of same-store sales very very closely and we’re very encouraged by what we are seeing on that front as well.
Our next question comes from Warren Ackerman with Societe Generale.
Your line is now open.
Couple of questions first one is on your guidance.
You got quite a lot to do to hit the 7% organic growth for the year given the 3% in first quarter.
Just wondering how much of the heavy lifting will be done by the increase in capacity from Holland into the B2C channel in China versus how much is done by the rest of the business.
Just trying to get a feel for the extent of the recovery in Mainland China you expects in H2 to get you near to that full year constant dollar guidance? That’s the first question.
And then secondly in last few days I mean a lot of stories in the Chinese media talking about the government banning advertising in infant formula to encourage breastfeeding but the government talking about breastfeeding going from 28% to 50% in five years time.
I’m just wondering whether you can remind us Kasper of your advertising policy in Chinese formula and how bigger headwind might that be for the industry? I think it’s a very logical one.
Obviously we feel good about our projection of around 7% constant dollar growth that is contained in our guidance.
Really it’s around comparisons.
The first quarter we were lapping very strong performances for sort of a series of different reasons but in both the United States and in China we were lapping really strong comparison basis.
I mentioned there were other factors that kind of impacted that in other smaller markets so the challenge in the first quarter was always going to be very significant for us and I think we came in as I said as expected.
So it wasn’t a surprise for us that our growth rate was relatively lower in this quarter and we feel good about our ability to hit our full year projection.
Transitioning to the question about this talk about some enhancement of advertising restrictions in China I think the industry is still trying to understand what exactly the intent in the plan is of this proposed change to the advertising law.
It is likely I think that it’s not going to turn out to be significantly different from either the current situation in China which prevents advertising to our products that target infants below six months of age or possibly it may represent a slight expansion to include products for infants of less than 12 months of age which is sort of consistent with the approach taken in many other Asian markets and either way I think we are very familiar with operating in these kinds of frameworks.
It allows us to utilize our medical sales force quite well and I think we feel well positioned to continue to compete and drive demand regardless of where this would go but I know the industry association is in the process of clarifying this with the local authorities.
And on the breastfeeding Kasper? Well I think it’s tied as you know to – or at least it is proposed to be tied to some objective to try and increase breast feeding rates in China.
I think we are likely to see some increase in breastfeeding rates but I think it’s going to be more than offset by growth in the middle class and the movement towards higher price products that we are seeing.
So we are not projecting any significant change to the trajectory of the market in China based on this.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask about the margin on the e-commerce business so I understand the risk mitigation in shipping directly and maybe reducing the amount of reliance on cross-border trade out of Hong Kong and I understand that you are pricing the product at a premium to the locally produced but I guess I’m just not as familiar with whatever discount schedules you have with retailers brick and mortar versus what you can expect on the e-commerce side.
So could you talk about expectations? Is there going to be a margin hit from shifting out of Hong Kong into China on that business -- the imported business? Maybe you could give us a little background there on distribution channels and discounting wholesale et cetera.
It would be helpful.
I mean we’ve said before that the most profitable way to play in China is via the model that we’ve got established through Hong Kong.
So that doesn’t change.
However we’ve also said that the margin on locally produced product in China and for that matter of product that is imported and sold at a premium price is very attractive indeed and in fact above our global average.
We believe that to China says any kind of variations in our margins because of cannibalization would really be focusing on the minute staff and you would run the risk of losing the bigger picture.
I think any improvement in sales and markets shares are consequence of these initiatives in China are likely to drown out any impact on our gross margin.
I feel very good about the margin trajectory for the business and I’m not overly concerned.
So if you ask me about the precise math you are right to say that the Hong Kong gross margin is slightly higher than that of the mainland China business.
Okay appreciate that and then I get the follow on to that you had mentioned that the Hong Kong transaction is pretty limited to Southern China.
So what are you thinking in terms of the increase in distribution across the population base I mean how many people was that or can you give us some idea about your focus on the emerging middle class.
You can all cover X percent and with the direct importation will be able to cover Y% and just in terms of what you think the reachable audience is for your product.
Now that you’ll be direct shipping.
No I mean I’m not sure that we are prepared to give that kind of detailed forecast Ian.
But just conceptually we for the variety of reasons not the least being our history in Southern China.
We’ve always enjoyed a much higher share in the Southern part of China than we’ve enjoyed in particularly Eastern and Northern China.
Obviously we are constantly working to address that and you can imagine through a number of different initiatives.
This is one of them and I also want to say that what we do understand about particularly the internet channel in China is that the a lot of these growth in the internet channel is coming from 3rd and 4th tier cities in China where the offering a greater selection of goods is a much bigger advantage than it is in the major cities.
So this also becomes our way to fast to expand at a relatively low fixed cost into some of those cities where we don’t currently have feet on the ground.
Our final question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you for squeezing me in.
So I guess I want to go back to the gross margin guidance.
I think if I heard you right and there were a couple of things to look.
But it sounds like your cost that your commodities basket overall is going to be down high single digits.
Is that right? Yes the aggregate commodity cost will be down high single digit.
Okay.
That alone should give you around 200 basis points of gross margin expansion just mathematically which is in line with your guidance and then you are lapping some expense with Singapore startup.
You’ve got a little bit of pricing coming through you’ve got the Euro transaction benefits.
All of them add up to something bigger than 200 basis points.
So I guess the question is where are the offsets? What’s causing some of the gross margin leakage from this very simplistic margin bridge? Jason I think I’m not sure whether you get the 200 basis points on a full year basis or you are getting them quarter-versus-quarter.
Full year.
Obviously we in our prepared remarks said that sequentially gross margin was up by about 210 basis points and we are now expecting to stay at broadly speaking an unchanged margin through the remainder of the year.
Yes which would give you 210 basis points of gross margin expansion for the full year.
That’s right.
Yes so it sounds like you are absorbing some cost.
I mean maybe this is the cannibalization questions we heard about slack capacity in your legacy China facility.
I think it’s a – yes Jason sorry to interrupt your question but I’m conscious of time.
I think what you’re seeing is the impact of foreign exchange running through our revenue line and as it pertains to mix sales mix as well.
So obviously there are more moving parts than simply the change in the commodity costs.
Thanks Jason.
Feel free to follow up with Kathy.
Operator I think with that we’ll have to close the call.
Thank you everybody for your participation this morning.
And this concludes our call.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.