Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Second Quarter and First-Half 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shannon and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Shannon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Mead Johnson's second quarter and first-half 2015 earnings conference call.
With me today are Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer and Charles Urbain our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuations pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today's conference.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to various factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or are on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures excluding any further mark-to-market pension adjustments with regard to the guidance appears in this morning's earning release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us on this call.
In a moment I'll provide commentary on our overall company performance in the second quarter of 2015 and the first half of the year.
As our prepared remarks today are little more detailed than usual we decided to expand this morning's call to an hour and 15 minutes.
I hope this will allow us time to cover things in a bit more detail while allowing you enough time for questions.
At the CAGNY Conference in February I suggested four factors to focus on when you think about our revenue and earnings trajectory for 2015.
Since then we've repeatedly come back to these factors at both our first quarter earnings call in April and more recently at the Deutsche Bank Conference in early June.
Since I'm sure we'll spend a good deal of time on this call discussing these again let me remind you upfront what these factors were.
Firstly the impact of favorable commodity costs then the counterbalancing headwinds from foreign exchange and largely market dynamics and competitiveness in our two largest markets North America and China.
At the Deutsche Bank investor conference in early June I spoke in more detail about the unique dynamics playing out in China currently and I'll return to that topic a little later this morning.
I'll also discuss the continuing strong performance of our business in North America and Europe.
Turning in a moment to the overall company results I'll provide highlights of our second quarter global performance before discussing each of our operating segments and our expectations for the full year.
Then Charles will provide additional details on our financial performance.
And finally I'll return to provide a few summary remarks before we as usual open the lines for questions.
Please note except where otherwise stated as Kathy said my comments will refer to our non-GAAP financials.
Turning now to the second quarter of 2015.
Our second quarter results were as described in last week's pre-announcement constant dollar sales were 3% below prior-year quarter and non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.76 for the quarter.
Volume was 5% lower than the same quarter of the prior year.
There were two key factors that drove the lower volume.
Firstly competitors' price-based promotional activities in several markets negatively impacted market share in these countries.
Secondly in Hong Kong our sales remained at levels below last year due to the residual effect of the March civil unrest.
Price contributed 2 percentage points to revenue growth from the prior-year quarter.
Improved pricing in the United States and several other markets however failed to fully offset the impact of volume losses caused by competitive price discounting in China Hong Kong Thailand and Mexico.
Apart from these few but unfortunately large markets almost every business delivered price growth.
Many markets took price increases to help mitigate negative foreign exchange impact.
As you look sequentially from the first quarter you'll notice as we expect it the contribution to growth from price is diminishing.
As we've explained before and this is not unexpected lower commodity costs have made it difficult to take price increases in many of our emerging markets.
In these markets we see government is interested in controlling inflationary impact of weakening currencies.
Finally as you know with approximately 75% of our revenue and profit outside of the United States we are subject to the adverse impact from a strengthening dollar.
In the second quarter the sales impact from foreign exchange translation was approximately 4%.
This was slightly lower than the 5% impact we saw in the first quarter of 2015 reflective of changes to our overall revenue mix.
Gross margin in the quarter at 65.4% was our highest in over five years.
It was up 360 basis points from the same quarter prior year.
All segments benefited from lower dairy costs.
And sequentially our gross margin improved by 140 basis points from the first quarter of 2015.
Charles will provide additional information on this a little later.
As we told you in the first quarter earnings call we increased our advertising and promotional spend significantly in the second quarter.
Our spend of $190 million or 18.4% of sales in the quarter was at a new record level as we invested heavily behind select growth initiatives in the latter half of the quarter.
Year-to-date our advertising and promotional expenditure was 15.7% of sales well above last year's full-year spend of 14.5%.
Our level of investment in demand creation we continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and occasionally from year-to-year.
The variation reflects timing of innovation projects and other growth initiatives.
We've continued to ensure that investment is competitive and at level sufficient to support our growth initiatives.
Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share was 76% (sic) [$0.76] compared to $0.88 in prior year's quarter.
Halfway through this year earnings per share stand at $1.85 compared to $1.90 last year.
The impact of foreign exchange was not quite fully offset by higher gross margins.
Let me now comment on the performance of each of our operating segments starting with Asia.
In the second quarter constant dollar sales were 10% below prior-year quarter as we saw reduced volume in the face of widespread price discounting by competitors at both wholesale and retail level.
We opted to respond with pricing actions of our own only late in the quarter.
Though we saw increased pricing activity in several countries including Thailand and Mexico the activity in China was particularly noteworthy.
Talking now specifically about China.
It is clear to us that a combination of a slowing China economy a proliferation of brand offerings and the lower dairy costs have created a competitive environment where both wholesalers and consumers are being tempted with special deals.
Mindful of the potential for such discounting activity to cause inventory bubbles we took a cautious approach in the early part of the quarter and took steps to underpin our competitiveness towards the second half of the quarter only.
Surprisingly we saw activity across all price segments and channels.
Within the quarter we continued to witness the China market shift towards imported products at the expense of locally produced goods and towards the newer channels of baby stores and e-commerce.
I've spoken previously about the strategic journey to address these trends by creating flexibility to compete in more consumer segments and strengthen our competitiveness in the fastest-growing channels.
I'd like to provide a few highlights that demonstrate the progress we've made to-date.
As you recall we launched a fully imported line of Enfa branded products in China towards the end of April as evidence of the velocity of the shift in consumer preference.
By the end of the just completed quarter this line represented approximately 20% of our total sales in Mainland China.
Unfortunately the rapid growth of our imported line was still insufficient to fully offset moderating sales of our locally packaged products.
A broader portfolio is putting us in a better position to compete in the important baby store channel.
And growth in e-commerce continues to outstrip that of other channels.
This phenomena is driven by a combination of direct-to-consumer and wholesaling activity.
Our focus remains on growing company-controlled e-commerce which is the most rapidly expanding channel.
Efforts initiated last year are beginning to pay off now.
According to external sources our e-commerce sales are up by nearly 70% on the year prior.
Admittedly this is still off a relatively small base but it shows we are figuring things out and moving in the right direction.
Our progress with priority partners like Tmall and JD.com was also satisfactory with year-to-date growth ranging between 40% and 90%.
Enfagrow our growing-up milk for instance is the fourth most searched-for line item on Tmall.
To get a flavor of this I'd encourage you to try searches on either of these sites.
Though the sites allow for more refined searches in Mandarin you'll find that an English-language search is still illustrative.
By sharing these operating metrics I hope to give you a sense of our commitment to developing these capabilities and our tracking of progress.
I'm encouraged by the early indications that our China strategy is working.
You should not expect this level of update in every call going forward.
However we do plan to return to the theme of e-commerce in China at our Investor Day on November 4.
We look forward to seeing many of you there.
Let me complete my discussion of China with a few comments pertaining to Hong Kong.
We continue to see some residual effect of the March civil disturbance and visitor numbers to the territory remain below the highs seen late last year.
That said March appears to have been the low point and visitor numbers have since begun to recover.
Second quarter sales in the territory were at a lower level not seen since mid-2013.
It's difficult to predict exactly how quickly the situation will return to normal but we remain confident that the Hong Kong and China governments will ultimately resolve the situation and avoid further damage to local commerce.
Turning now to the rest of Asia in Thailand our performance did not meet our expectations.
Consumer confidence is very low and as mentioned earlier competitor pricing pressure resulted in a loss of market share.
It is clear we did not execute as well as we would have liked to.
And we are determined to improve performance in the second half of the year.
In the balance of the region we saw solid performance in the Philippines offset by a slowdown in Malaysia associated with the introduction of a general sales tax.
We believe this slowdown in Malaysia to be temporary and primarily retailer-driven.
In summary we are of course disappointed with the latest quarter in Asia where a series of external factors coincided to produce weaker-than-expected performance.
That said we believe we have accurately identified opportunities to improve execution and we have good evidence our China strategy will deliver results.
Turning now to Latin America constant dollar revenue rose 1% in the second quarter over the same quarter of 2014.
Pricing added six points of growth but was partially offset by 5% of adverse impact from volume.
Pricing gains in the high-inflation countries of Venezuela and Argentina more than covered the impact of currency depreciation in these markets.
Our decision to hold back shipments into and inside Venezuela was a significant driver of relatively weaker volume performance.
As we have stated in previous calls we are managing risk associated with intercompany payables within defined parameters.
Foreign exchange movements continued to significantly impact results for the segment.
The impact was seen across the segment with Columbia and Brazil the most severely affected.
Performance within our Mexican subsidiary was below expectations in part due to this factor also.
However results were further impacted by loss of market share in the face of strong competition in milk modifiers.
Our core Enfa brand performed well within the quarter but I remind you that a significant part of our business is done within the local brands of milk modifiers.
Our Argentina business continues to exceed expectations.
We are constantly making operational and strategic improvements to the business there.
And in the last few weeks we finalized an agreement to acquire an additional 10% equity stake in the joint venture we formed in early 2012 this transaction took our equity position to 90%.
We are likewise seeing sustained strong performance across Central America the Caribbean and the Andean markets.
Let me now turn to our North America/Europe segment.
I'm very pleased with the continued strong performance of this reporting segment.
Constant dollar revenue growth was 6% on the prior year's quarter and sequential quarterly growth was solid also.
Growth in our United States business reflected continued improvements in the overall economic conditions allowing us to realize better pricing.
The impact year-to-date was however largely the carryover effect of pricing taken in the third quarter of last year.
On top of this we now understand 2014 birth increased by as much as 1.5% according to data recently released by the Center for Disease Control.
This represents the first solid year rebound since the economic crisis of late 2008.
The rebound in birth was not entirely unexpected and consistent with expectations described in earnings calls over the last few years.
It is however rewarding to see the rebound finally materialize.
Market share gains within our North American and European infant formula businesses and continued strong growth from our Enfagrow toddler initiative in North America also helped our performance in the quarter.
Our growth in the relatively smaller European business was somewhat understated due to our exit from Russia early in the year.
Excluding this effect of the lost revenue from the discontinued business in Russia the rest of our European business has grown at a double-digit rate year-to-date.
Our growth in North America and Europe in many ways validates our strategy to continue investing in brand equity building and demand creation during the economic downturn.
The last couple of years have seen us reap the rewards from investments we made over the 2009 to 2013 period.
Before I hand over to Charles let me now discuss our outlook for full year 2015.
We see 2015 as a year of transition for the business where we are facing a number of unique challenges.
I'm thinking here firstly about the impact of a strengthening dollar on both our topline performance and our earnings per share and secondly of the less well understood impact of lower dairy input costs that on the one hand makes for a tougher pricing environment and on the other hand supports stronger-than-average gross margin performance.
The impact of a stronger dollar alone is likely to take as much as 4 percentage points to 5 percentage points of our reported sales growth and around $0.10 of our 2015's earnings per share.
In this environment I'll once again direct your attention to the performance of our two largest markets of China Hong Kong and the United States these being the major swing factors that will impact full-year performance.
As we find it difficult to determine how long the current price discounting in China will last the wider-than-usual earnings per share range contained within our recently revised guidance reflects this level of uncertainty.
Our outlook now expects constant dollar revenue growth over prior year between 0% and 2% with non-GAAP earnings per share in between $3.63 and $3.78.
This revised outlook reflects an expectation that our new growth initiatives in China will continue to pay off and play an ever larger part in our performance there.
We expect to be seeing sequential growth in China again as we exit the year.
Gross margin is expected to remain around 64.5% as we continue to benefit from lower dairy costs this despite a tougher-than-anticipated pricing environment.
The significant investments that we remain committed to making do present a short-term challenge yet we are convinced investments to reshape our portfolio improve competitiveness in higher-growth channels and create added flexibility are necessary.
And they will allow us to come out of this year of transition in China in a stronger position.
With an improved gross margin we expect our EBIT margin slightly above 24.5%.
Charles I now turn the call over to you.
Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
There are several factors contributing to the recent update to our guidance.
Therefore I will walk down the income statement and provide insight and context on how these changes impacted our performance and our financial outlook.
I will then briefly discuss the geographic reporting segment results before concluding with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on our non-GAAP financial results and references to currency impacts or the effect of currency fluctuations generally refer to their impact from the translation of local currency financial statements into dollars.
I'll begin my review of the income statement primarily focusing on changes versus the prior quarter starting with our sales performance.
Kasper already discussed our constant dollar sales results and guidance.
For the second quarter sales on a reported basis were 7% below the prior year quarter.
A 2% increase in price was insufficient to offset a 5% volume reduction and a further 4% impact from adverse foreign exchange translation rates.
I'd now like to make some comments about foreign exchange and its impact on the business.
The U.S.
dollar continued to exhibit strength during the quarter.
Its effect on the translation of local currencies adversely impacted most markets in which we operate.
In particular the Latin American markets experienced widespread adverse foreign exchange headwinds with the Mexican peso and Brazilian real having the most significant impact on sales and as Kasper alluded to some impact from Colombia as well.
The SICAD rate which we use to translate our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated financial statements was devalued from VEF12 to VEF12.8 during the quarter impacting both the P&amp;L and balance sheet translation.
This adversely impacted the quarter by around $3 million on a pre-tax basis versus the prior-year period.
The balance sheet impact from this devaluation is classified in other income and expense.
Additionally we opted to slow down the shipment to and distribution of goods in Venezuela due to a buildup of unpaid invoices in the first half of the year.
The situation remains fluid but we continue to pursue a constructive dialog with the relevant authorities local authorities and receive a small payment early in July at the same VEF6.3 exchange rate received in the past.
If exchange rates were to remain at their current levels we estimate that foreign exchange will adversely impact sales growth by between 4% and 5% for the full year 2015.
This is not a significant driver of the change in guidance.
While we anticipate currency translation to have an adverse impact on full year sales there are factors which mitigate the impact of foreign exchange translation on the EPS.
Pricing lower dairy costs the euro-denominated components of our cost of goods and the translation of local currency-denominated expenses serve to mitigate but not fully offset the EPS impact from the stronger dollar on local currency sales translations.
I will now comment on our gross profit.
Our gross margin was 65.4% in the second quarter up 140 basis points sequentially from the first quarter of 2015 and up 360 basis points from the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in gross margins was driven primarily by lower dairy costs both versus the first quarter of 2015 and the prior-year quarter.
As we've previously indicated a consequence of lower dairy cost is that it becomes tougher to take price increases in support of newer innovations or to offset the pressure from currency fluctuations.
This was evident in our second quarter results and is expected to result in a less favorable impact from price in the balance of the year as we let the pricing take in 2014.
Additionally we expect to see continued trade discounting in select markets.
I remind you that dairy makes up around one-third of our total cost of goods.
For the full year 2015 we expect dairy costs will decrease around 20% over 2014 while other commodity costs in combination with conversion costs should ris4sse around 1%.
So in aggregate our annual cost of goods is expected to decrease in the mid-single-digit range.
Finally we have locked in our dairy costs for the year.
On a sequential basis the benefit from dairy will reduce in the second half versus the first half of 2015.
Bearing in mind these factors we estimate that our annual gross margin will be around 64.5% which is 50 basis points higher than the prior guidance.
Moving on to operating expenses you will recall that on the first quarter we alluded to significantly higher demand generation expenses in subsequent quarters with the second quarter likely to be the peak investment period.
In the second quarter the advertising and promotional expense was at a record of 18.4% of sales resulting in first half year-to-date expenditure close to 16% of sales.
The second quarter increase was largely due to selective investments in Asia most notably in China.
As Kasper indicated the China investment was primarily to support recent introduction of our fully imported product.
Turning to the other income expense line the current year quarter expense was related to the depreciation of the SICAD rate in Venezuela.
This compares to income in the prior-year quarter when we recognized a gain related to payments for product supplied from our plants to our Venezuelan affiliate at exchange rates which were favorable to the SICAD rate used in translating our financial statements.
To conclude my discussion on operating expenses for the year we reiterate our intention to reinvest a portion of our higher gross margins back into the business through higher demand generation expense – excuse me investment.
As a consequence to the factors I mentioned we anticipate annual EBIT to be slightly above 24.5% of sales similar to our guidance in the last call.
I will now briefly run through the geographic segment results for the quarter.
Asia sales were 10% below the prior-year quarter on a constant dollar basis.
Higher gross margins were invested in strong advertising and promotion support for the region led by investment in China against our recently launched fully-imported product.
EBIT was 30% of sales.
Latin America sales were 1% above the prior-year quarter in constant dollars.
And again the higher gross margins funded investments in advertising and promotion.
EBIT was 23% of sales compared to 24% in the prior-year quarter.
Our North America/Europe sales was 6% above the prior-year quarter in constant dollars.
EBIT was 25% above the prior-year quarter mainly driven by higher gross margins.
I will now briefly speak about our taxes and our effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 25.6% in the second quarter compared to 23.8% in the prior-year quarter.
The higher rate is primarily the result of a change in geographic earnings mix.
On a full year basis we expect the non-GAAP ETR to be approximately 24%.
Now to summarize our annual guidance to reiterate the guidance statement in our recent pre-announcement we anticipate constant dollar sales growth of approximately 0% to 2% this year.
Including the impact of adverse foreign currency rates reported sales are estimated to decrease by 2% to 4% this fiscal year over the prior year.
As we consider other factors which could impact EPS performance during the remainder of the year there are a number of key potential swing factors which should be considered: our balance-of-year sales trajectory; recall that Kasper alluded to the North America China mix as being a key swing item; the impact of foreign exchange translation on our financial statements; and finally the impact of pricing and the extent of ongoing discounting in selected key markets.
As mentioned in our previous quarterly earnings calls a significant devaluation in Venezuela should it happen is not considered in our current guidance.
7% devaluation in the SICAD rate has already occurred in the second quarter and our guidance assumes no further devaluation in Venezuela.
Dairy costs should remain favorable for the balance of the year but not incremental to assumptions included in our guidance.
Remember that we lock in dairy prices about seven months out.
This favorability will not be conducive to price increases as evidenced by level of marketplace discounting in the second quarter.
Overall our gross margin has seen a healthy improvement over last year and is near levels last seen around the time of the IPO.
While the supply of dairy products continues to exceed demand we could foresee a scenario where supply could become more constrained but likely not in the near future.
Non-GAAP earnings for 2015 are expected to be in the range of $3.63 per share to $3.78 per share.
GAAP earnings per share for the quarter were $0.80 per share.
GAAP earnings guidance is expected in the range of $3.56 per share to $3.71 per share.
I will now conclude with a high-level overview of the balance sheet.
While we had a difficult quarter we continue to generate strong cash flows and the balance sheet remains strong.
Our cash balance was $1.5 billion as of June 30 2015 up about $40 million from the first quarter 2015 and approximately $180 million from year-end 2014.
Cash held in the United States was approximately $215 million.
Debt stood at $1.5 billion as of June 30 2015 with our net debt position close to zero.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $377 million in the first half of 2015 after consuming $80 million in cash for capital investment.
We continue to expand our European plant in the second quarter to meet increased requirements for our fully imported product in China.
For the full year capital spending expectations remain unchanged at around $175 million.
This is in line with our long-term goal of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be around $100 million for the full year.
I'll talk a little bit about cash utilization before concluding.
On June 11 2015 our board of directors announced a dividend of just over $0.41 a share which should annualize to approximately $1.65 per share for the year.
As a result full-year dividends paid out of earnings are expected to exceed $320 million for 2015.
As you may recall in September 2013 the board of directors approved an additional $500 million share repurchase program following the full utilization of our previous $300 million program.
We have approximately $430 million unutilized under this new program.
We expect to activate this program in the coming quarters either through open market or privately negotiated transactions.
The program is intended to offset the dilutive impact on earnings from employees stock-based compensation plans and allow opportunistic stock-based repurchases to return capital to shareholders.
With that I shall now turn the call back to Kasper.
Thank you Charles.
Before we take your questions I'd like to briefly reiterate the key components of our strategy and highlight a recently added strategic initiative.
Our strategy of investing in brand building and innovation in North America despite the economic downturn is now bearing fruit.
So as our decision to increase investment in the creation of a toddler business there we are happy with our current momentum.
Our decision to focus our European business likewise has produced a smaller but faster growing and more profitable business.
And we've talked in recent months about our desire to become channel agnostic in China by broadening our portfolio and creating a more flexible business model.
We are convinced this is the right strategy.
We are satisfied with the early progress of our new growth initiatives and we are committed to continued investment behind the strategy.
The Latin America region has been particularly challenged by currency headwinds this year.
Over time we'll see this stabilize and our ability to translate more of our constant dollar growth into reported sales growth will be enhanced.
Within the last few weeks we've launched a new initiative Project Fuel for Growth.
This major strategic initiative will reshape our income statement by increasing operating expense productivity.
The project is central to our goal of becoming an even more agile and flexible business that is best able to respond to changes in market dynamics and consumer preferences.
We see it as an integral part of our continued improvement effort.
Over the next three years we intend to reduce our non-A&amp;P operating expenses by 300 basis points with an intent to reinvest the majority of these savings behind new growth initiatives.
The project is targeting productivity in both external and internal cost and infrastructure.
This project will be directly overseen by our executive council that includes myself.
We will begin to see the impact from early 2016.
We plan to provide you with periodic updates on our progress.
As we open the lines to questions I'd like to remind you that recognizing our longer-than-usual prepared remarks and likely surplus of questions we decided to extend the call by 15 minutes.
Operator if you would now open the lines to questions please.
Ladies and gentlemen we are ready to open the lines up for your questions.
Please stand by for your first question.
Your first question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
You may begin.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
Hi Bryan.
Kasper I guess a question just related to some of the changes you've made in the strategy in China.
I guess as the dynamic that changed in this quarter and really in this year has been the introduction of price competition.
Can you talk a little bit about how that's affected the way you're positioning the price of the imported product and how that might evolve over the course of the year? And I guess what I'm trying to get at is how much certainty do you have about how the competitive landscape and pricing will evolve and whether or not you're going to have to make changes to some of your pricing as you move through the balance of the year? Yes.
Thanks Bryan.
It's an excellent question and you will notice that I referenced the uncertainty around the pricing environment in China when I alluded to our wider-than-usual sort of EPS range that's contained within the revised guidance.
So I want to just highlight the fact that obviously we don't have the ability to predict how competitors will act over the next six 12 or 24 months for that matter.
I do think that as people begin to lap these extraordinary windfalls that they've had from depressed dairy costs we expect that most businesses or at least most of our large competitors will again begin to run the businesses in a more normal fashion where both sales and profit growth becomes sort of an objective.
I think at the moment there is a lot of spare gross margin kind of slushing around in the system that people are choosing to spend in different ways and some people are clearly choosing to spend it on price discounting both at the consumer and at the wholesale kind of level.
Let me address the second part of your question which was around how it's affecting our imported product.
I think this is where it's beneficial for us to have a broader product portfolio in China because we are able to at least at the moment we are able to hold the price of the imported product relatively stable and most of the pricing activities that we have had to engage in first of all only began in the last months of the quarter.
So we didn't see the full impact in the quarter of that.
And consequently we suffered a reasonably significant adverse volume impact.
But most of that has been on the locally manufactured product and most of it has gone towards ensuring that we are somewhat competitive when it comes to trade margin and obviously that we are attractively priced when it comes to the consumer and we'll continue to do that.
Yeah I do think that this abnormal price environment in China is creating quite abnormal inventory situations where we see spare inventory being created in many different pools around the country and hence moving in quite a disorganized fashion between provinces and in many cases between channels.
So we see examples of people offering wholesale prices that are 15% to 25% below the prices they are selling to retail at.
I don't particularly want to point a finger at anybody as I'm sure everybody is doing what is right for their business.
But I think you're going to see a lot of variability in individual company performances in China over the coming quarters.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And just as a clarification you've been able to use the locally manufactured brand as sort of the fighter in the price competition and the imported brand or the imported product you haven't really had to come in at a lower price point than you wanted to.
Is that a fair characterization? That's correct...
All right.
...at this point.
Thank you.
Thanks Bryan.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks for the question.
Kasper I hear what you're saying about pricing in China and some of the irrationality maybe decelerating when some of the cost deflation is lapped.
The global milk this month just dropped another 20% sequentially or so.
So when do you think that lap actually takes place? Why will we not see continued irrationality and prices drop even more for the next six months or so? And I guess in relation to that isn't this quite an irrational environment we're in where we've never seen anything like this before.
We've seen cost drop before but we've never seen pricing drop to this degree.
So doesn't that speak a little bit toward the – and you've talked about this to some extent but the economy's impact as well? So I guess I'm curious how do we get confidence that in a declining milk environment and a tough Chinese economy this negative cycle really comes to a conclusion soon? Ken that's a great question.
I'll try and talk a little bit about the environment.
Then maybe Charles wants to add one or two things about milk prices.
I think you are right that it is not purely the favorable dairy costs that are what should we say inducing this particular activity.
I think it's a combination of the favorable dairy costs and individual company reactions to a slowdown in the Chinese economy and in demand there.
So most companies I think are struggling having gone into 2015 with an overly optimistic view of what they would achieve in China this year and we obviously have to recognize that that's the case for us.
And I'd be surprised if we were entirely alone.
So when you combine that with this what shall we call it surplus of gross margin different companies are taking a different path in their efforts to hold up volume if I can describe it like that.
We can't say how long that will last.
And you're right I don't want to set any expectation of a sudden kind of reversal of that trend from one quarter to the next but I do think – or our perspective is that dairy prices are either at or near their natural lows and you are probably going to begin to see some culling of herds around the world if dairy prices do not rebound.
So one way or another we believe there's more risk associated with dairy prices looking forward than there is opportunity.
So sometimes depending on how companies recognize costs sometimes over the next few quarters people will begin to substantially lap these low dairy costs.
Charles I don't know if you want to add anything? No.
I think Ken is correct that the recent spot prices are extremely low but we've seen a flattening on prices of the milk components we purchase.
And I think Kasper is absolutely right.
You will have seen that Fonterra laid off quite a few people recently and that will be felt at the farm level even more acutely.
So you have to think that supply will gradually be managed back to a level where farmers can make a living from dairy farming.
So when that happens I'm not quite sure but I think it's inevitable at some point.
And don't get me wrong we like dairy prices where they are understandably.
I should just say that as we talk about a slowing economy in China it's worthwhile us all bearing in mind what a great commercial opportunity China remains.
Even a slowing China even a China that would grow between 4 and 5 percentage points in 2022 would still add more economic activity on an annual basis than the rest of Asia Pacific and Latin America added together.
So it is a particularly – right now when we're all suffering a little bit because of the slowdown it's easy to lose sight of the fact that China is still a fantastic opportunity.
And I say this because I think it sort of supports our determination to keep making investments there.
Great.
Operator can we go to the next call? Your next question is from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
You may begin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Kasper can you tell me what the rate of growth was for the China e-commerce channel for the category and how does that growth rate compare for the category growth rate for brick-and-mortar retail? Yes.
There's no doubt that e-commerce as I think you know is the fastest-growing channel in China.
I can tell you that our e-commerce business grew at nearly 70% year-to-date over prior year and we believe that that was – well we know that that was faster than the e-commerce market in total but not by a huge margin I should say.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And then the brick and mortar comparison I mean I'm assuming that one is a large negative but can you give me a sense for the size of how negative the growth rate is in brick and mortar? Very difficult to – it's difficult to say.
I'm a bit reluctant David because I have only a moderate level of confidence in the numbers that you get by the different monitoring services in China.
But if you will like accept that hedge I don't want to appear not to answer the question.
We think that the supermarket channel the sort of FMCG channel likely declined somewhere in the mid-single digits.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And there was some growth in the baby store channel which ultimately is an important customer for the e-commerce channel.
So I think it's very important to – I apologize for repeating this point but it really is very important to understand the amount of wholesaling activity between channels that is happening in China.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I appreciate the clarity.
Are you seeing Internet sales for your business across China or is it concentrated in any particular region? And then just kind of my final question on this is did the Internet shift hit Mead more than the promotional activity in the quarter? I'm uncertain as to the magnitude of the effects impacting your operations in China this quarter.
No.
I think the promotional effect was greater David.
But there's no doubt that we are under indexing in the fastest-growing channel and you know that and I know that and we are addressing that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> What about the sales for the Internet product across China and/or concentrated in regions? I'm just curious if this has changed your ability to reach other parts of China and did you see any effect of that? It's pretty broad based and as I think we've said before we are very encouraged by this new channel's ability to act as a more economical way for us to reach new cities.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Good morning Matt.
Hi.
Kasper I just wanted to ask another variation on the same theme of China promotion.
But clearly there's a number of temporary factors at play with lower dairy prices and inventory building up.
But one of the I guess more structurally worrisome aspects of what's going on recently is the fact that many of your competitors have followed the locals.
It's proved temping to consumers who are reacting to it and historically we always talked about the fact that reducing your price point was the worst thing you could do.
It would damage consumer perception of the brand.
So I guess does this suggest with consumers reacting or being tempted in some way that consumers have changed that they're behaving differently that parallel trade becoming available is making people a bit more value conscious? And just your thoughts on how that sort of impacts the profit pool longer term.
I want to reiterate what we've said before which is being borne out by our analysis of the current sales data in China.
And that is that the retailers are far more tempted by discounting than the consumer is.
And I suppose that's what I was trying to say in my prepared comments.
And if I wasn't clear enough I apologize.
But we've been very reluctant and we are very cautious in engaging in this level of discounting as it seems to us that the overwhelming effect of it is to create additional inventory in the retail trade regardless of what channel you're in whether you're in baby stores or for that matter with the dotcom retailers or with the supermarket chains.
And it is not clear to us that a sufficiently large part of that is translating into increased consumer uptake.
It is also true as we've said before that as people move from infant formula where there is relatively little price orientation from consumers into children's products people become a little bit more what shall we say promiscuous and easier to attract through different promotional vehicles price being one of them.
Okay.
Understood.
And just very brief follow on but as you look at some of the broader economic impact I guess my assumption would be that some of the overall sort of slowing of growth in the industry tends to be a bit more concentrated in children as opposed to infants just given the somewhat more discretionary nature of it.
Is that I guess another factor that's playing into the price – sort of promotional sensitivity that's going on right now? Yes there's an element of that.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thank you.
Kasper I appreciate the emphasis on brand building and the desire to maintain pricing power but with your gross margins just continuing to grow higher I was surprised to see how high they got and the economic backdrop getting weaker are you concerned that you are – that Mead is pushing margins higher at a time when everyone else is – you competitors are pushing margins lower and that you're kind of setting yourself up for more market share losses as the year goes on? And I guess the follow-up question to that is when you look at your topline targets of kind of like 6% to 7% the backdrop has changed and especially in China but not just in China but throughout the world and now that you're looking at a fuel for growth program where you're going to attack the middle of the P&amp;L do you think that by your Analyst Day you might come back to us with kind of a different outlook for what the topline environment really is? I think – I mean let me start with the fuel for growth program.
I think that program is very important to us and it's all about creating flexibility to cope with different market circumstances Rob.
So it's good that you take note of that.
And it of course gives us choices; by becoming leaner and more efficient it will give us flexibility to invest in growth initiatives and those growth initiatives can be in different lines of the P&amp;L.
They don't necessarily all need to be in the A&amp;P line.
So one of the things we could potentially invest in would be higher retail trade margins or we could – I'm not sure that that's going to be what we want to do but we could invest in a more competitive price level if that was what we felt was important.
To-date we've obviously made the judgment that lowering prices would not lead to significantly increased uptake in a way that would represent an overall benefit to the business.
You might imagine that we are continually reevaluating that obviously particularly in light of such strong margins.
And we are not going to be documenting about this if we believe that lowering the prices in China would make us more competitive but I emphasize make us more competitive at the consumer level then we would clearly do so.
We're not going to do so simply to allow us ourselves to boost performance in a given quarter in order to escape a little bit of heat so to speak.
Great.
Okay.
Operator can we move to the next? Your next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hey guys.
Thanks for the question.
Hi Jason.
Good morning.
Good morning Jason.
Two questions.
First just to keep beating China.
Can you update us on the regulatory changes that will soon take effect in China particularly on the registration requirement? And what implication you see this potentially having on the grey market volume following through Europe and whether or not any of the potential shift could be a driver behind some of the price competition you're seeing as competitors look to maybe harmonize or get closer to harmonization of price points across markets? Sorry what was the second question Jason? Yeah sorry it's a loaded question.
So first update on regulatory environment implications on grey market...
Yeah I got that.
...and whether or not this is driving some of the pricing moves you're seeing because we're seeing some competitors raise prices in Europe but at the same time that they're pressuring down in China.
And one theory that may be wrong is that they're attempting to try to harmonize a little bit to shift volume from grey market into legitimate channels ahead of the regulatory change.
Yeah.
That's an excellent observation.
Jason let me firstly say that the registration changes that are happening in China do not present a problem to us.
We're in full compliance with those as of I think July 1.
And so for us that's a nonissue.
And my understanding is that it does not at least at the outset apply to products that are imported at least not via e-commerce.
So that's my current understanding.
As often is the case when these things are introduced in China there is a little bit of uncertainty about how they will be enforced.
But certainly from our perspective and we've had extensive interaction including having had input on the regulations we don't see that as an issue for us.
I think what you are saying about pricing in Europe and efforts to harmonize highlights a very interesting dynamic that we are spending a lot of time reflecting on here.
And that is that the company's share of the sales in China in many cases differ quite substantially from their share of the profit pool in China because a lot of the sales that go into China via the e-commerce channel originate in Europe where margins are significantly lower.
And much of the profitability therefore leaks outside of the companies (1:06:15) engaged in that practice.
I think as a consequence of that they are trying to do two things.
Just like us they are trying to bring more of this trade under their direct control which we believe is a good thing and we believe will help both create pricing that is more reflective of value and create a greater conformance with China laws and regulations from the industry.
And secondly I suspect they are trying to take prices up in Europe in order to reduce the overall parallel trade though I believe that the latter might be quite difficult to achieve.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
One more question I'll pass it on.
Fuel for growth your guidance implies around 40% of sales being spent at SG&amp;A this year which seems pretty high.
How did you get to the 300-basis-point number or what are some of the factors or buckets that you're looking at to get there? And why not more? Because 300-basis-point kind of gets you back to pre-IPO levels is there opportunity you think to grind even higher without of course sacrificing some of the demand-generation initiatives? Well I mean you're right you're referencing that our sort of total operating expenses are around 40%.
And obviously they are above what shall we say many companies that you guys might view as our broad peer set.
However it's very important to recognize that so is our EBIT margin and so is our gross margin.
Much of the differential comes from differences in business models.
We spend a higher-than-average amount on A&amp;P.
We do that in order to create a sustainable value proposition for the consumer who is ultimately paying a higher price that supports a higher gross margin so we believe that to be a virtuous circle.
And though we undoubtedly have opportunities over time to become even better at judging the cost effectiveness of our A&amp;P spend we are not substantially going to look at that line for productivity opportunity at this stage.
So we are down to let's say about 25% or so in non-A&amp;P operating expenses.
And why 300 basis points and why not another number? We recognize that we do have two sales forces as part of our demand creation model.
We have a medical sales force and a trade sales force both of them are very important to our demand creation model and that creates a different cost structure from some of our sort of peer set that you look at that rely more heavily just on a single-trade sales force.
We believe that 300 basis points is significant.
It is meaningful and we are going to go after that in a fairly determined and aggressive fashion.
And then we will evaluate whether or not it is the right target or not once we get a bid into it.
I can assure you that we are not going to just be satisfied if that's what we can do and we are going to continue to challenge that.
But at this point in time I think that's the right number to aim for.
And where we're going to find it well we're going to look both externally and internally.
Obviously as many companies do we have a large number of outsourcing agreements with third party providers.
We from time to time engage with consultants that assist us in different projects.
And we have created a lot of processes and infrastructure that we had to create relatively quickly as we separated from Bristol-Myers Squibb in order to create standalone capabilities.
And in some cases we see opportunities within those areas to eliminate kind of duplication and overlap between different functions or in some cases between regional local and global functions.
So we're going to look at all of that and we have begun the exercise.
And I guess at this point we are kind of in the analysis phase but we clearly see ourselves being in the execution phase by the time we get through the fourth quarter of this year.
And we'll talk more about this on our Investor Day.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Operator to the next call please.
Your next question comes from Diane Geissler with Credit Agricole.
You may begin.
Good morning.
You may have given this figure and I may have missed it but can you tell me what total sales in China Hong Kong declined? And then you gave the mix of sales in e-commerce I think you said it was about 20% of your total sales.
Can you just talk about the shift from locally produced to completely imported and what that might mean for your local production and the facility that you have in China? Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll start with your latter question Diane.
First I may have been unclear in my prepared remarks but I did not refer to e-commerce being any particular proportion of our total sales in China.
I was referring to sales of our fully imported products by the end of the quarter representing 20% of our total sales in Mainland China which I was obviously pleased with given that the product was sort of gradually rolled out into different distribution channels beginning only really sort of towards the end of April.
Charles I don't know if you want to expand.
Yeah.
So Diane if your question is year-to-date versus the prior year in China it's just over mid single-digit decline year-on-year in China and Hong Kong would be a little bit less from that.
Thanks.
Operator can we go to the next question? So this is going to be our last question I'm afraid.
So if we can move on I think.
Who's next? Sorry Diane.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for putting me in.
Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess this is a little bit more of an accounting question because I'm not exactly sure if the infant formula players such as yourself account for it the way of other typical packaged food companies.
So your A&amp;P was $190 million in the quarter up a lot sequentially even up year-over-year but you didn't obviously get much of a – it seems like much of a response from that.
I think in your preannouncement you mentioned that you were disappointed with the new product launch in China.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand is the promotion you're referring to versus competition a deduction between gross and net sales or are we seeing the dollar impact of that increase in promotion in the advertising and promotion line that's within SG&amp;A? Thanks Eric.
Let me clarify.
You scared me a little bit when you said it was an accounting question.
But I'll have a crack at it.
Firstly any kind of pricing activity is a gross to net item.
So that is not included in the $190 million.
I think you may have misread the preannouncement or we may have been unclear.
We did not say that we were disappointed with the launch of the new product in China.
In fact we are quite pleased with the early trajectory of that launch.
What happened was that obviously built through the quarter as you can imagine because you are building distribution and therefore you exit the quarter at quite a different rate from what you had in the early phase of the launch.
What we did say was that the growth in the new product that we launched was insufficient to offset the decline that we saw in the quarter of the locally manufactured product.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I hope that helped.
Now you're quite right to say that spending $190 million well why didn't we see an impact on sale.
Well the reason is that a large proportion of that increase was invested behind the introduction of this new product.
And obviously you don't get an instant return on that.
But it obviously helped create very good momentum for that new launch.
And I can assure you that we will hold ourselves accountable for continuing to see a positive trajectory from that product as we go forward.
Inc.</span></strong> And so if we see more promotion or continuing promotion in the market that deduction between gross and net you're assuming that that kind of remains at these levels or improves and that's incorporated in your second half 2015 forecast.
There's some expectation that it will continue to affect the third quarter and we're expecting things to improve a bit in the fourth quarter largely due to a change in mix as well.
Charles maybe I'll just let you.
No.
I think that's absolutely right Kasper.
It's also one of the factors that bring our gross margins down by 90 basis points from where we were at the end of the second quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's all and thanks.
Okay.
Well allow me to thank you for your interesting questions.
I can assure you that we're committed to continuing this discussion with you.
Let me just close by reminding you that we'll be making some planned changes to our executive lineup in the next quarter as we described in our recent 8-K filing.
So on this call I want to say that Charles has done a terrific job over the past few months serving as our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
And though he'll continue in this role for another month or so I want to thank him for a job well done.
So thanks Charles.
I remind you that effective September 1 Charles will take on a new role as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer where he'll be responsible for all the commercial performance of our operating regions.
At that same time of September 1 Michel Cup will join the company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
For those of you who don't know Michel he brings both industry experience from his time at Numico and Danone and more recently he brings experience from private equity backed businesses to us.
Most recently he served as the Chief Financial Officer at D.E.
Master Blenders post the split-off of that company from the Sara Lee company.
Obviously I look forward to introducing Michel to you on our next earnings call.
And just want to say that obviously we remain committed to the continuous development of our people and our organizational capabilities and these last two moves represent another step on that journey.
So with that I want to thank you for attending our call and this completes our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.