Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome the Mead Johnson Nutrition Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
May name is Mallory and I will be your coordinator for today.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Kathy MacDonald Vice President-Investor Relations.
Please proceed Kathy.
Thank you Mallory.
Good morning and thank you for joining Mead Johnson's Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
With me today are: Kasper Jakobsen our Chief Executive Officer; and Michel Cup our Chief Financial Officer.
As we start let me remind everyone that our comments will include forward-looking statements about our future results including statements about our financial prospects and projections commodity cost currency fluctuations pricing taxes capital spending depreciation amortization new product launches product quality other growth initiatives and market conditions that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
A more detailed explanation of our forward-looking statements will appear in the materials posted on our website in connection with today's conference call.
Keep in mind that our actual results may differ materially from expectations as of today due to factors including those listed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K in each case as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our earnings release issued this morning all of which are available upon request or are on our website at meadjohnson.com.
Today's comments will include discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these measures to comparable GAAP measures appear in the morning's earnings release posted on our website.
In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.
While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.
I will now turn the call over to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Kathy.
And thank you all for joining our third quarter earnings call this morning.
I know a number of you are in Chicago already and prepared to join us for our Investor Day that'll begin shortly after we complete our prepared remarks.
I look forward to connecting with you all in person a little later.
For those of you who are unable to join us today in person I hope you can stay on the line with us and listen to our Investor Day presentation and you'll all have the opportunity to ask questions around 10:00 AM Central Daylight Time when we complete the first half of our Investor Day presentations.
We then allowed for a second Q&amp;A session after the completion of our Investor Day presentations around midday here.
Before I describe our third quarter results I'd like to acknowledge Michel Cup our new Chief Financial Officer.
Today is Michel's first opportunity to interact with you and for you to hear from him and he'll provide further financial details after I complete my overview of results.
Welcome Michel.
Over the next few hours we plan to review the latest quarter provide an update on the current state of our business and discuss a couple of important corporate initiatives.
But in the next 30 minutes or so and then again later this morning we'll reference the four major drivers of our performance that I've discussed on earlier occasions: the business environment and competitive situation in China; secondly our performance in our second biggest business the United States; then the continued positive impact on gross margin from lower dairy prices; and finally of course the impact of foreign exchange.
Except when I note otherwise I'll be referring to non-GAAP results.
A full reconciliation of our GAAP results as Kathy mentioned is available in our filing alongside our earnings release this morning.
Both documents are also available from our website.
Let me now turn to our third quarter results.
Despite continued strong momentum in North America and Europe the quarter proved more challenging than we'd expected with headwinds from both foreign exchange and slowing economic growth in emerging markets impacting performance.
Though gross revenue was only slightly off last year's quarter we had to invest more heavily in Asia to create this level of sales and volume.
Hence our constant dollar net sales in the third quarter of 2015 were 4% below prior year.
Volume in aggregate was also 4% below prior year's quarter.
The adverse impact from foreign exchange was significant not only in Asia but also in Latin America.
As a result in U.S.
dollars we were 10% below the prior year's quarter.
From a category perspective I'm very pleased with the progress we are making with our specialty and solutions product lines.
These products grew 11% over the same quarter in 2014 in constant dollars.
We saw strong growth both within our allergy direct specialty product Nutramigen and with our Enfamil gentle product that helps address parental concerns over formula tolerance.
The impact on company sales on these rapidly-growing products was however offset by weakness in our regular routine infant formula.
Total sales of infant formula including specialty and solutions were in line with prior year in constant dollars.
Our locally manufactured product in China however was a source of weakness in the quarter.
In a difficult environment across many emerging economies and reflective of a category with more elastic demand our children's products had a difficult quarter with sales 7% below prior year in constant dollars.
Our gross margin in the quarter improved by 480 basis points over prior-year quarter as we continued to benefit from lower dairy prices.
Despite less favorable market conditions we continued to invest in brand building and innovation within the quarter.
Our spend on advertising and promotion was 16% of sales in the third quarter.
Spend was focused on driving key initiatives in our top markets including China Thailand and Mexico.
Indeed the impact of foreign exchange can be seen right through our profit and loss statement.
Though sales for the quarter was below those of prior year we grew EBIT by 8% in constant dollars.
However adjusting for foreign exchange EBIT for the quarter was 3% below the prior-year quarter.
Earnings per share for the quarter was adversely affected by both foreign exchange and some once-off items.
We ended the quarter with $0.80 in earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis.
This compares to $0.93 in the third quarter of 2014.
Let me now talk briefly about the performance of each of our segments.
I begin with Asia where market conditions remain somewhat suppressed with continued competitive discounting in several markets including China Thailand and Malaysia.
At this stage we do not see these price reduction drives increasing consumption of infant formula.
This is understandable given the nature of the category.
The children's category is somewhat more responsive to both pricing activity and to changes in economic circumstances.
In fact aggregate category volume was relatively weaker across most markets within the Asia region.
In aggregate our own volume in Asia was 7% lower than the third quarter of 2014.
Gross sales performance and volume in China was broadly in line with prior year's quarter.
However we saw a significant increase in our discounts and promotional expenses as we matched competitors' promotional strategies to defend our market share position.
This resulted in net sales being 11% below prior year's quarter for the region as a whole.
Both in China and more broadly across Asia we are squarely focused on initiatives that'll help restore growth over time.
Later today during our Investor Day we'll update you on the progress we are making with our fully imported products in China and brief you on a couple of new initiatives that we are adding to our current efforts.
We're committed to these investments and satisfied with the progress we're making.
Also later in the day you'll have the opportunity to hear directly from Sandra Yu who heads up our Greater China business and is based in Guangzhou.
Sandra will be able to expand on my comments.
But let me make a few observations about what we're seeing in China and Hong Kong currently.
Firstly there's no doubt consumer and retailer confidence is lower than it was 12 months ago.
The result is a more cautious approach to inventory at all levels.
Secondly we continue to see a growing arbitrage trade between Europe and China.
The majority of this trade takes place over e-commerce and the main beneficiaries are Chinese traders and retailers.
Manufacturers participate only to the extent they increase sales at relatively low European margins.
For this reason and thirdly all manufacturers appear to be working to funnel sales away from consumer-to-consumer or C2C web commerce and towards company controlled business-to-consumer or B2C platforms.
We now see B2C growing at nearly three times the rate of C2C.
And we are pleased that we are growing in line with this channel.
The final and fourth dynamic in China is price discounting which is quite widespread at both wholesale and retail level.
As I've said before this is largely manufacturers enabled by low dairy prices responding to so-called new normal growth rates.
The increased price competition is fueling channel shifting from consumers.
Traditional retailers are being undercut on price by new channels.
Over the long run we believe there'll be further change in China.
The China government is unlikely to continue to permit the large scale importation and retailing via e-commerce of non-compliant non-duty paying product from Europe.
We are hopeful changes will be implemented proactively and not caused by safety or quality-related event that could have been prevented.
And we are committed to work with the Chinese regulators to find solutions to protect the Chinese consumer.
Further putting pressure on our Asia results were continued sales weakness in Southeast Asia.
Category growth reported by Nielsen is very low at best in the year-to-date.
Sales were down year-on-year and as mentioned in prior calls affected significantly by foreign exchange and market share losses incurred in the first half of the year.
Late in the quarter we introduced new packaging formats in several countries and we are currently revising advertising communication across the region.
Michel will provide further details but you'll not be surprised to learn that with lower sales and a commitment to maintaining investments our EBIT was below that of the third quarter of 2014.
Absolute EBIT was 15% below prior year in constant dollars.
On a positive note however our EBIT margin was similar to prior year.
Turning now to Latin America.
The relatively weaker conditions referenced in emerging markets also impacted our business in this region.
Despite this excluding the impact of Venezuela where we held back shipments the region grew 3% in constant dollars in the latest quarter.
In total sales for the region were marginally lower than prior-year quarter by 1% on a constant dollar basis.
Price increases were insufficient to offset the impact of foreign exchange which resulted in a 17% reduction in reported sales over the same quarter of last year.
For the region as a whole infant formula sales increased by 7% in constant dollars driven by strong performance of our specialty and solutions portfolio.
In a challenging quarter it was rewarding to see us continue to make good progress in both Argentina and Colombia.
In Argentina price increases more than offset the impact at depreciating currency.
In Mexico the continued price discounting by competitors and milk modifiers impacted both sales and margins.
As is the case in other markets we are responding to these competitive pressures and taking the necessary steps to protect our market share position.
From a profitability perspective an improved gross margin was insufficient to fully offset the impact of higher investment in demand creation.
As a result EBIT margin declined somewhat over the prior-year quarter.
I'll now turn to our performance in North America and Europe.
In our North America-Europe segment unlike what we experienced in Asia we realized improved pricing and extended lower discounts than we did in the prior-year quarter.
As a result net sales grew a very healthy 7% in the quarter on a constant dollar basis.
A stronger dollar impacted reported sales growth of 3% and volume too was up 3% on prior year.
Within the segment all our businesses in Canada the U.S.
and Europe each grew strongly.
We continued to gain market share in both Canada and within the growing allergy segment in Europe.
In fact Europe again grew in high-single digits within the quarter reflecting strong execution within a growing market segment.
In the U.S.
we introduced new and improved packaging for our liquids products and we view this is a good opportunity to continue to drive our share of higher value segments.
Ivonne Monteagudo who heads our business in the U.S.
will expand on this in her presentation later today.
As a result of better pricing higher sales and improvements to gross margin we saw very strong improvement in the EBIT delivery from this segment within the quarter.
EBIT was up more than 50% on the same quarter of last year.
Let me now briefly comment on our performance year-to-date.
Year-to-date our gross sales before discounts were up 1% in constant dollars but higher levels of discounting as referenced in our third quarter results resulted in net sales for the nine months ending September 2015 being lower than the same period of 2014 by 1%.
When reported in U.S.
dollars net sales were weaker by 6%.
Gross margin year-to-date improved by 280 basis points due to lower dairy input costs.
Our dollar investment in advertising and promotion was similar to the nine months of 2014 but increased by 100 basis points as a percentage of sales reflecting increases in local currencies.
Through the second and third quarters of 2015 we've spent behind new and improved packaging for our flagship Enfa franchise across the globe as well as continued our investment in the establishment of our Enfagrow toddler business.
The Enfagrow toddler business has become a really exciting part of our U.S.
business and continues to grow strongly.
Year-to-date sales of Enfagrow are up 18%.
On a year-to-date basis EBIT was flat in constant dollars.
Any upside from stronger gross margin was offset by investment decisions and inflationary increases in other operating expenses.
Turning now to the outlook for the full year.
As we move into the last quarter of this year it's clear we face more uncertainty and change than usual.
We've updated our guidance for both sales and earnings per share accordingly and we now expect constant dollar sales for the full year 2% to 3% below prior year.
And as a result expect non-GAAP earnings per share to fall between $3.33 and $3.43 for the full year.
I emphasize that we continue to face a larger than usual amount of uncertainty in a fluid and very competitive environment in Asia.
I'll now hand the call over to Michel who'll provide more details on both our third quarter results and our outlook and trends for the full year.
Once Michel completes his prepared remarks I'll return with a few summary comments before we transition to our Investor Day agenda.
Michel over to you.
Thank you Kasper and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I wanted to say how excited I am to be part of the Mead Johnson team.
It's a great opportunity for me to returning back to the infant and children nutrition business.
Having been in the role for just over 50 days now I have already had opportunity to visit several different markets.
I look forward to getting to know all of you better in the coming months.
This morning I will discuss more financial results and provide additional details and context into our P&amp;L.
I will then briefly discuss segment results and provide some insight on our financial outlook before concluding with comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Unless otherwise noted my comments will be on the non-GAAP financial results and references to currency impacts or the effects of currency fluctuations generally refer to the impact on the translation of global currency financial statements into dollars.
Let me start with sales.
For third quarter sales on reported basis were 10% below the prior-year quarter.
Adverse foreign exchange rates contributed to a 6% decline of $69 million.
The U.S.
dollar continued to strengthen this quarter and its effect on the translation of local currencies negatively impacted all reporting segments.
In particular Latin America experienced widespread adverse foreign exchange movements with the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real having the most significant impact on our sales.
Volumes were 4% lower primarily driven by Hong Kong and South Asia partly offset by volume growth in North America and in Europe.
China's volume improved versus quarter two.
Price mix impact was flat.
Positive pricing in Latin America and North America was offset by price mix especially in China which was driven by increase in pricing discounts in the third quarter.
I will now move on to factors that impact our gross profit.
Gross margin was 64.9% in the third quarter up 400 basis points from the third quarter of 2014.
Lower dairy costs of $45 million was the key driver of this improvement.
Non-commodity and manufacturing costs increased which were almost all offset by productivity improvements.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined 50 basis points sequentially from the second quarter of 2015.
We expect this trend will continue in the fourth quarters due to three factors.
First our markets took fewer new price increases due to the low dairy prices.
Secondly we have selectively offered price promotions on our locally manufactured products in China due to the continued high level of competitive promotion activities.
And thirdly we'll have scheduled U.S.
plant shutdowns for annual routine maintenance.
In the near-term we anticipate that low dairy costs will continue to make it difficult to implement price increases to support new innovations or offset negative foreign currency fluctuations.
We expect that price and promotion activity as well as higher trade investments will have a negative impact in the fourth quarter and likely into the beginning of next year.
After factoring in all of these variables we estimate that our annual gross margin will be approximately at or slightly above 64.5%.
Moving on to A&amp;P and other operating expenses.
Our advertising and promotion spending was 16% of sales in the third quarter compared to 14.6% in the prior-year quarter an increase of 5.8% on a constant dollar basis.
We have made selective A&amp;P investments in Latin America to support new product launches such as liquids.
In the U.S.
we had higher investments in our toddler business.
SG&amp;A expenses decreased by 4% versus prior-year quarter.
This was mainly the result of lower incentive compensations.
Our Fuel for Growth initiatives that Kasper announced in July is targeting our operating expenses excluding advertising and promotion.
I am very pleased with the significant progress the company has made to secure the savings in 2016.
I will discuss our Fuel for Growth program in more detail during our Investor Day later this morning.
In the other income and expense line we reported the foreign exchange gain in the prior-year quarter compared to the expense in the current quarter.
The gain in the prior year was largely due to payments for products supplied from our plants to our Venezuelan affiliate at exchange rates which were favorable to the SICAP rate used in the translating of our financial statements.
In addition the prior year also included a non-recurring pension curtailment gain.
EBIT as adjusted was 7% above the prior year on a constant dollar basis.
Currency impacts adjusted EBIT negative by 10%.
I will now move to the segments.
The performance of our segments showed a mixed picture in quarter three.
Our EBIT in Asia was $154 million a decrease of 15% on a constant dollar basis.
On a reported basis our EBIT in Asia was 17% lower.
EBIT margin was in line with the quarter previous year at around 32%.
Both A&amp;P and operating expenses were flat on a constant dollar basis.
Top line was mainly negative impacted.
Latin America realized an EBIT of $39 million an increase of 2% on a constant dollar basis.
In Latin America we had a strong negative impact from currencies resulting in an EBIT decline of 26% on a reported basis.
EBIT margin was 21.1% a decrease of 250 basis points versus previous quarter last year.
On a constant dollar basis A&amp;P increased by 27% versus previous-year quarter.
North America and Europe EBIT was $101 million an increase of 57%.
This very strong performance was mainly a result of strong improvement in our gross margin in this segment.
Investment in advertising and promotion increased 8% on a constant currency basis.
This contributed to a solid net sales growth of 7%.
I will now briefly speak about our taxes and the effective tax rate.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate or ETR was 28% in the third quarter compared to 17.2% in the prior-year quarter.
Last year's rate was unusually low as a result of a non-recurring tax benefit.
The current year higher rate is the result of an unfavorable change in geographic earnings mix.
On a full-year basis we expect the ETR to be approximately 24.5%.
Let me briefly address our EPS.
Non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $0.80 a decline of $0.30 versus the prior-year quarter.
EPS from our business activities on a constant currency basis grew $0.10 or 11%.
Currency headwinds impacted EPS by $0.11.
Tax impact EPS negatively in total by $0.12.
This was result of the unfavorable change in geographic mix of $0.07 and last year's non-recurring tax benefit of $0.05 per share.
GAAP EPS for third quarter was $0.77 which is $0.03 lower than the non-GAAP EPS mainly as a result of the mark-to-market pension adjustment impacting EPS negatively by $0.04.
I will provide you now with an update of our 2013 share buyback program.
We repurchased 5.6 million shares of stock at a value of approximately $437 million for an average share price of $78 per share.
These repurchases were partly funded from the $322 million of borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
The 2013 share buyback program is now substantially completed.
Our outstanding number of shares by the end of September was 197.1 million.
Average number of shares in this quarter was 201.7 million shares.
Moving on to forward-looking guidance on a non-GAAP basis.
We forecast constant dollar sales to be lower by approximately 2% to 3% this year versus last year with foreign currency reducing sales growth by 5%.
As a result reported sales are estimated to decrease 7% to 8% this fiscal year.
From an EPS guidance perspective there are several key factors to be considered.
Dairy cost should remain favorable in the fourth quarter compared to prior-year quarter.
Most of the dairy benefit and the productivity savings will be absorbed by a higher priced promotion and higher trade investments in the fourth quarter.
Taking all of this into account non-GAAP EPS guidance is expected to be in the range of $3.33 to $3.43 per share.
GAAP EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.15 to $3.25 per share.
This takes into account an expected restructuring provision for our Fuel for Growth program of approximately $25 million in quarter four of 2015.
Later today I will provide more details of this expected restructuring.
Any additional mark-to-market pension adjustments have not been taken into account.
A significant devaluation in Venezuela should it happen is not factored into our current guidance nor any additional material changes in foreign currencies.
I will now wrap up with a high level overview of the cash flow and the balance sheet.
Despite the challenging operating environment we generated strong cash flows during the quarter which further strengthened our balance sheet.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was approximately $484 million in the nine months period.
This was significantly higher than $421 million of free cash flow generated in the prior-year period.
Our capital expenditures were $125 million in the first nine months.
For the full year capital expenditures estimate remains unchanged or approximately $175 million.
This is consistent with our longer term target of about 4% of sales.
Depreciation and amortization expenses is expected to be around $100 million for the full year.
Our cash balance as of the end of September is $1.363 billion.
Limited cash was held in the United States.
Our net debt position as of September 30 amounted to $477 million.
The company to-date announced a new share repurchase program of $1.5 billion of the company's common stock.
The company expects to finance the share repurchase through issuance of debt which may include long-term notes.
Shares will be repurchased from time to time in open markets or in privately negotiated transactions including without limitation the anticipated use of a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program which the company expects to execute in the short-term.
I will provide you more detail of this plan later this morning.
Thanks again for your time this morning.
And with that I will now return to Kasper.
Chief Executive Officer and Director</strong> Thank you Michel.
Let me try and wrap up this portion of our day with some summary remarks.
We expect annual recovery in emerging market conditions to be gradual and we must plan for growth to remain below historical norms through much if not all of 2016.
In anticipation of this economic challenge and to allow us to support critical investment priorities we announced our Fuel for Growth initiative in July.
In our earnings call back then I outlined our intent to reduce our non-demand creating operating expenses by 300 basis points over the next three years.
And as Michel said later today we'll describe in more detail just how we plan to achieve this.
The result would be a significant reduction in our non-demand creating expense base over this period.
We'll describe how we plan to reinvest part of these savings in critical growth initiatives while at the same time committing to an expansion of operating margins and earnings per share over the same period.
While our plan goes beyond investing in growth initiatives and managing down our expense base we also intend to begin leveraging our balance sheet for greater value creation.
I've always been clear with you that we'll not operate an underleveraged business indefinitely.
We understand that return on equity is an important metric to shareholders so today we're also announcing our plans to return cash to shareholders via a substantial share buyback program beginning in the coming quarter.
This follows the substantial completion last quarter of a previously announced $500 million buyback program.
Michel just updated you on the success of this buyback program and he will outline the new program in more detail later this morning as he said.
You should see this as a confirmation of our determination to create value for shareholders regardless of the business environment.
We recognize the external environment is dynamic and we're determined to create shareholder value regardless of market conditions.
We now conclude this section of our day.
I remind you that we will take your questions around 10:00 AM Central Daylight Time and I hope you can all stay with us.
I look forward to convening with you shortly.
Kathy I hand the call back to you so you could describe what'll happen for the rest of the day.
Thank you to all for listening in our call this morning.
Thank you Kasper.
For people who are on the phone and are interested in Mead Johnson Nutrition's Investor Day event the management presentations will be broadcast live on the Internet.
So please log in at http://investors.meadjohnson.com.
We will provide approximately 5 minutes for those that are on the phone to sign on to the Website in order that you can see the presentations as we go live.
With that operator I'm going to turn it over to you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!