[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First one is regarding sales growth and your expectations for the remainder of the year.
You're really the first company to actually come out and say -- at least in the food space to come out and say that there's a shift in consumer spending towards away from home which is interesting.
And I just wanted to isolate as part of your better performance that you admitted in terms of sales growth how much of it was related to that shift and weather? And the reason I'm asking is if sales growth was better than you expected which you said I'm just wondering why you don't have the confidence I guess to raise your sales growth guidance.
So if you can give me a little bit of perspective on that that'd be helpful.
And my second question is regarding branding.
And you increased brand marketing by I believe $9 million this quarter which was well ahead of your guidance.
But for the full year you still kept the guidance the same.
So I'm wondering if there's flexibility on that or if you're committed to not spending much more for the remainder of the year.
Yes a couple of things.
It's pretty hard to actually quantify the impact of weather but we did see some impact in our consumer business at least in the U.S.
where a lot of the real cold weather items were dramatically lower than they were a year ago things like chili and beef stew seasoning and things like that.
The reason that we're a bit cautious is as we've seen fuel prices start to rise that tends to have a fairly significant impact on people as they spend their dollars going out or staying home.
So we're a bit cautious on that and so it's pretty hard to quantify.
On the second question on advertising spend we're committed to continue to invest in our brands.
You’ll recall we spent up pretty heavily in the fourth quarter of last year.
And our pattern is if we see the opportunity to do that because we have pretty good returns on our advertising investment we'll do that.
But at this point early in the year with a small quarter it's not the appropriate time to change our guidance.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up.
So you are spending more it seems like on your consumer business which makes sense.
Can you just talk about sort of -- in terms of the outperformance this quarter relative to your own expectation would the business have outperformed even if there wasn't a shift to QSRs for example? Like what -- was your consumer business sales growth in line or below your expectations? And how much of that do you think is because of a shift towards QSRs? I would say that the consumer business was probably slightly ahead of our expectations given some of the volume trends we saw early in the quarter when we were providing some guidance.
So as we progressed we saw stabilization and some strengthening.
And it was pretty broad based.
You saw the strong numbers in EMEA as well as China and Canada and the U.S.
stabilization.
So I'd say really in terms of the outperformance the consumer business was probably slightly ahead.
I will say the Industrial business was very robust as well.
Just to also highlight some of the things we're cautious about if you recall in the prior year we did have some weak comparisons in markets like China on the industrial side.
So the strong performance in the first quarter while we're very pleased with it was against a weak year ago period.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've now had 4 quarters of 5% to 6% price increases across the business yet the gross margin decline you've had this quarter was the biggest since this inflation really started in second quarter last year.
Shouldn't 4 quarters of good pricing give you a little bit more power to have less of a margin decline on the gross margin level? No.
If you recall and going back to the chart that where we've tried to illustrate this is in the first quarter of last year we were not yet experiencing the material cost inflation pressures.
It was largely building up in inventory and also yet to be realized on the P&amp;L.
So as you recall as we progressed through last year the third quarter was down over 100 basis points and -- I mean the second quarter then the third quarter and fourth quarter were similar.
So it really is a function of the timing of when these material cost increases started to hit us and it started to accelerate as we progressed through the year.
So we're looking at almost an opposite phenomena this year where the majority of the increase really we start to experience in the first part of the year and then it starts to moderate as we progress through the year.
And that's really what's causing the gross margin issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was there any margin impact from that shift from food at home to more of the industrial business? Well there certainly will be because obviously it's a lower margin structure business relative to the consumer business.
But as you saw the industrial margins themselves were up over the prior year so that was helpful to the overall company margin structure as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a few weeks ago you put out a press release that you hired Dr.
Cardellina as a scientist.
I think the press release called out that he had experience with supplements and areas of the I would say food business that's not necessarily your core business.
Is that signaling anything that maybe McCormick will move more into a supplement role or is it just part of his resume but that's not the reason why you hired him? No.
That's part of his background.
He's a very talented scientist and he's going to help us tremendously in our flavor business.
But there's no -- nothing to read in from his background.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just to kind of come back to that cost inflation comments that you've made today I guess Gordon.
Obviously the peak being here in Q1 has it stepped down pretty meaningfully going forward or is it a gradual decline? I'm just trying to get a little bit of sense of the gross margin as we trend through the year.
I'd say it's a gradual stabilization based on the way I just described how it played out last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just curious the QSR performance in the quarter.
Is there any way to look at -- if you look at sort of the category trend if you want to call it that kind of how the QSRs broadly performed in the quarter it was meaningfully better in Q1 than say Q4.
Was that the majority of the growth that occurred for you? But I know you've also cited new product wins and distribution gains that kind of thing.
So I'm just trying to understand what was really driving the main piece of the growth in the QSR performance this quarter.
Well the bigger turnaround in the first quarter was our food service business and it was a combination of our distributor business and our QSR business.
But that was a lot of what was happening in the U.S.
industrial business.
Around the world it's a heavier QSR blend of customers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Again that category trend picked up a lot in the quarter.
Was that an important -- the most important part of the growth in the quarter then? For the industrial business it certainly was.
Obviously we talk about acquisitions and pricing as part of our growth algorithm in the quarter as well on the consumer side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure I was looking at the organic -- got you.
okay.
And then I have just one more follow-up if I could.
And that was just in relation to price realization in the EMEA consumer division I'm just trying to understand there I'm sure you've taken pricing there in relation to cost inflation.
Was there incremental promotional spending that may have reduced what the actual price realization that came through in the quarter? We took minor pricing and we took it in 2010 and early ’11.
So there was very little pricing in the EMEA business and we did have a fairly heavy marketing and advertising spend.
LLC</strong> I just want to step back a little bit and kind of talk big picture.
Because I know last year at CAGNY you had a fairly extensive slide presentation.
And it seemed like the larger strategy for McCormick on average was just by 2013 you could reach the 16% to 17% operating margin and you had 20% margin in 2010.
In consumer you had 8%.
In industrial the goal was to get industrial to 9% to 10%.
And then inherent within the plan excuse me was a continued shift to the consumer business on the top line.
But I guess if I'm looking in the quarter and I realize that there is a little bit of a shift year-over-year because of the compare volume pulling into -- I mean pulling to Q4 for last fiscal year.
But in general I guess -- so the question is are we still on path to do that? Or could we see a scenario play out such that on an operating profit basis there actually could be a little bit of not negative margin mix going forward but maybe not as positive as you thought considering commodities are still high? You're carrying kind of high inventories.
And even though you have this outsized growth in the top line driven by acquisitions frankly consumer profits are still down 6% which -- that's the second year in a row that your consumer division is down.
So if I think about what's happening in consumer now and what's happening in the segment business mix now relative to longer-term plan I heard over a year ago it just -- it seems a little off.
So I'm wondering if you could just kind of provide some color on that.
I wouldn't read too much into an anomaly on one quarter.
But what I would say is our strategies are exactly as we laid out last year.
Now we've seen an awful lot of volatility in costs as we went through last year.
Our costs were certainly a lot higher that we -- than we had anticipated in February last year.
I'd say we're still experiencing that.
You'll also recall in that discussion that the pricing is a very very small part of our algorithm.
But what happened in the quarter and in the time since then is that pricing has been much more a factor as we try to recover the margin.
Our strategies are still the same.
The acquisitions that we made last year were by and large consumer acquisitions.
Doesn't mean we won't make industrial acquisitions going forward.
But our strategy is still to grow our consumer business faster and drive the margin of our industrial business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So then if I think about the rest of this year even into next year if we do actually see the input cost pressures ease a bit as we go through the year I mean is it fair to assume that you could see a little bit more of a margin benefit on the consumer side relative to what you get on the industrial side? Well.
Certainly as we progress through this year because of the volatility of cost it may be tough within the consumer business.
But on a go-forward basis to Alan's point the basic fundamental algorithm around faster consumer growth improved industrial margin leads to an enhanced overall margin structure for the company.
That has not changed.
But again back to Alan's point these long-term goals can get interrupted for periods of cost volatility which is what we're experiencing right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to return to the step-up in marketing spend.
Are you getting the return? And I guess I was looking for $5 million and it looks like it was $10 million this quarter.
So can you walk me through that a little bit? Yes we believe that we are.
We had -- we were supporting new product activity in the U.S.
as well as in the U.K.
We spent a tremendous amount in the first quarter launching Recipe Inspirations in the U.K.
and in France and we've seen the sales results from that and we feel pretty good about it.
But as you're well aware we continue.
We have a pretty disciplined process to monitor what's working and adapt our model to spend behind the initiatives that are working.
This year we're beefing up our spending in digital and mobile marketing.
We think there's a great return there.
We also have started to invest in China behind brand building to deepen our business there as opposed to just look for new distribution.
So it's an overall mix that we think is going to pay out.
But as you're well aware we'll go back and adapt it to what's working from a return standpoint and put the emphasis where we think it's going to generate the best returns.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then how does the acquisition pipeline look right now? It's still active.
I wouldn't say that there's nothing we can announce this morning but it's still active.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then third if you could just comment on Zatarain’s frozen entrées.
How are those performing that's been a tough category and how is that doing? Well for us it's been a very good category.
It's pretty well all incremental growth.
We just introduced meals for 2 and they're starting to roll out now.
And so we're seeing pretty good traction from things like Jambalaya and Blackened Chicken Alfredo.
So it's -- that's kind of an area that we're excited.
Remember we're niche on -- in frozen.
We don't think the world needs another frozen lasagna and we're not trying to compete there.
But the products that we have for Zatarain’s and even for Thai Kitchen are pretty exciting to us.
Research Division</strong> In the industrial segment obviously the QSR was strong.
What part of this is sort of sustainable on your -- and driven by sort of internal efforts like the innovation you've talked about and that sort of -- the process of getting these new products into the QSR segment and how much is just maybe economic-related? And then also how did your broad line distributor business do in the quarter? Sure.
We've executed better I'll say that.
Now recall this is one quarter after a number of quarters of a fairly weak performance in the food service channel.
But that -- so we're feeling good about the result.
We're cautious going forward again because of the impact to gas prices but it's been driven by our new product wins as well as some good performance by a number of our customers.
Our broad line branded business in food service also did very well in the quarter and it's kind of nice to see positive volume trends in that area as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question is how are you progressing on gaining share within your largest strategic customers? In the industrial business we've continued to gain share.
It's always a kind of a tactical battle because we do that by winning new product innovation and that's where we've tended to win more than our share of briefs.
There's some offsets to that as people are looking to reduce cost in our ingredient business and that's less of an innovation trend.
But we've continued to gain share with most of our strategic customers.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at the -- how the quarters are supposed to progress for the rest of the year.
And are you forecasting like what my model shows that you can continue to get 100 basis points of leverage on the SGA line for the rest of the year? That'll vary obviously by the timing of A&amp;P spend.
Obviously it would have been even more this quarter without the A&amp;P spend.
So -- but certainly we're looking for leverage on the SG&amp;A line because of obviously the price execution on the top line and the leveraging of the acquisitions against the SG&amp;A base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up.
I can see Gordon how the gross margin comparisons are going to get easier for the rest of the year.
But you're not really forecasting from what I can tell any gross margin expansion.
Is it really just a catch-up as the year progresses? Is that correct? I'd characterize it as more of a catch-up as the year progresses.
Things can impact that obviously in terms of the product portfolio and the segment portfolio so that's what can vary and cause it to go up or down in any given quarter.
But I would suggest it's more of a catch-up.
Our price increases take a full year outlook and look to try and recover after even we look at CCI the cost increases.
Research Division</strong> And your volume comparisons for second and third quarter your currency comparisons for second and third quarter are going to get actually a lot tougher as well.
Does that flow through at all to a tougher comparison in terms of operating profit growth? Or it seems like what you're saying is it really isn't a concern.
Well FX as we've indicated will be a negative to the top line 2% on the year and you're correct in that Q2 will start to be a tougher comparison.
It's not the same impact on the operating income line as it is on the sales line.
We have hedging activities.
We also have cross-border flow of goods that we try to make natural hedges out of.
But then obviously we'll ultimately have a negative impact on the operating income line as well just not as much as it is on the top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So third quarter will be a much easier comparison than second quarter? Yes.
Second quarter -- well again it's -- at current rates -- and rates as you know are volatile as well these days but at current rates second quarter is a tougher one.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
I guess I think Alan you alluded to the U.S.
food manufacturers that you supply as still kind of being weak as the quarter progressed.
Could you just detail that aspect? Because obviously the other food manufacturers have been pretty negative and have not indicated any kind of recovery whatsoever.
What we see is a little bit of a lag behind their volume trends on core items.
So I wouldn't necessarily read into our results what's going to happen with all the other food manufacturers.
If we're supplying core items and the core items are weak our sales are going to be weak.
To the extent that we have new product innovation wins even when their trends may be a little weaker our trends may be a little bit better.
I will say I do think everybody is concerned with the consumer reaction to pricing and trying to put programs in place to make sure that we can protect volume.
You've seen a lot of announcements on increased advertising spending and we're seeing some amount of new product activity that we think will help us as well as help our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe you're going to go into this in more detail at the Analyst Day in a couple of weeks.
But it seems to me on the consumer side that China is -- there's like some quarters where it's really great and then other quarters where it stumbles a bit.
On the industrial side it's been strong for a long time.
But would you say now that China is -- maybe emerging markets are more of a focus but China is better positioned to be more of a consistent growth area for you on the consumer side? Yes.
We certainly expect that it would.
Now remember China has a similar dynamic that the American market has except it's a quarter different.
Our Thanksgiving-Christmas holiday is a heavy boost to sales for the U.S.
In China it's the first quarter because of Chinese New Year.
So we do see some seasonality in that pattern as well.
But we do think we're building a sustainable business in China and are really favorable on our brand building as we build consumer loyalty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question maybe more on the industrial side of things.
I was just -- I was on a flight the other day and I randomly sat next to this guy who works for another food ingredient supplier and he indicated that the manufacturers the branded companies that he serves were really pressuring everything in terms of cost.
And I guess that's not surprising given all the inflation.
But to the point where the food manufacturers were really like wanted to the extent feasible to keep the taste profile the same.
They were actually looking for lower quality ingredients to the extent again that the cost versus taste balance would -- could sustain it.
So are you seeing that and kind of how does that work into the improvement on the industrial side? I would say every customer that we have has a fairly aggressive productivity initiative.
And the way we try to deal with that is by offering alternatives that protect the flavor and also because in a lot of cases we can help them both reduce costs and improve their product.
And so that's a lot of the effort that we have going.
But I'd say every manufacturer and we're -- we us included have productivity efforts to try to offset these increased costs because we recognize it's a combination of high cost and high prices and lower volumes are not a sustainable mix.
And so we're all working on try to do that.
But for the most part and I'd say across the board we’ve benefited from that but it does present some challenges for us.
If we're looking at this process of higher raws sort of decelerating and the -- still the flow of price increases going through how do you see it as affecting private label as both part of your sales mix and private label produced by competitors? Well what we've seen is private label pricing has gone up higher than brand pricing over the last 6 months or so on a percentage basis.
On the other hand what we're seeing is consumers are very conscious of the prices they're paying as we always do when prices go up and are making some trade-offs.
So at least in the U.S.
and I'll speak to the U.S.
in our spice and seasonings business we've seen private label gain some share both in terms of dollars and in terms of units.
In dry seasoning mixes we've actually gained share.
And then in our other major markets Canada the U.K.
and France we've gained share.
So what we are seeing is private label manufacturers and us among them passing through higher prices.
And those higher prices are getting reflected on the shelf but the consumers looking at an absolute price point on the shelf that they're making a decision on.
And so I think we're in a bit of a questionable period from an elasticity standpoint.
So we're very conscious of that and are implementing programs to help offset that.
How about just looking internally how has -- what's the shift like between your branded product and private label products in the consumer segment? We've seen some shift not necessarily to private label but some shift in volume to some of our economy brands.
Our private label business has grown but it's also because we won some new customers with that.
So I wouldn't say it's been a dramatic shift in our mix of products from brand to private label.
There's a little bit more from within our brands to our more economy brands.
Research Division</strong> I think Eric sat next to the same guy on the plane that I sat next to because I had the same question.
So I cancel my question.
Great thanks.
Thank you all for your time and attention.
At McCormick we're continuing to operate effectively and grow even in the challenging environment that we have today.
We're adapting our product innovation and marketing to meet consumer demand for flavor convenience and value.
We're managing through this period of cost volatility with our pricing actions and our CCI programs and we're expanding our presence in fast-growing emerging markets.
Through our global operations we have leadership and employees in place to deliver a year of strong financial performance for McCormick shareholders.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my thanks to those participating on the call today.
We hope to see you at our Investor Conference 3 weeks from today.
Through April 3 you may access a replay of this call at (877) 660-6853.
The account number is 309 and the ID is 389082.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If you have any follow-up questions I can be reached at (410) 771-7244.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!