[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Ken Goldman of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on a little late so forgive me if you addressed this.
But can you talk a little bit about the environment in China both on the Consumer and Industrial side for you right now? Yes the environment is still pretty healthy in China.
What you saw in the second quarter was -- what had looked like a slowdown from first quarter the reality is we were up against a price increase from last year in the Consumer business which kind of impacted it.
As I talk to people about China what I'm hearing from people that are in heavy industry is that they're seeing some slowdown in the Chinese economy but people in the consumer space are still seeing pretty robust growth.
And that's what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the U.S.
I mean you are able to maintain volumes despite taking price increases.
Do you attribute that more to the category that you're in right now or more towards some actions that you're doing or a combination of both? Because it is unusual in packaged food to sort of see that environment right now.
Most companies are reporting volume declines.
Just curious how you think about that.
We saw a short-term volume decline as we always do when we took pricing and I think what we're seeing now is a little bit of a return to -- as consumers have gotten used it.
And as they lived out of their pantries for a little while we're starting to see some return to volume.
We're also continuing to put pressure on with new product innovation.
We're advertising and have increased our spend.
And I think we're fortunate that we're in a good business.
There's no question about that but we're also being proactive as we -- just to make sure that we give consumers reason to continue to buy our products.
I think another thing that we're seeing is private label pricing has kind of started to close some of these gaps.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly is there anything we should be aware of in terms of pepper pricing or cost rather or anything that may force you to take your prices up or down in the near term? Yes.
There's -- we have -- pepper pricing is continuing to flatten but still is above last year.
And so we have taken some additional pricing but it's a lot more stable than it has been.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've owned Kamis for 3 quarters now I think.
Can you give us a little bit more details on how plans are working to for example introduce more of traditional McCormick products expanding more into other markets outside of Poland? Just a little bit more detail there.
I'm sorry Thilo.
Could you just repeat the question? It's a -- we had a little trouble online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you've owned Kamis for 3 quarters and I was just hoping for a few more details on how the plans there are progressing the plans are to introduce traditional McCormick products expand into other countries and so on.
Yes.
With the Kamis business what we're doing is one we think there's a lot of leverage in the Polish market from good category management.
So we're doing that.
We're bringing product innovations that are working well in other markets under the Kamis brands in Poland and we're continuing to expand distribution across Russia.
In fact we're very encouraged by what we're seeing with sales growth in Russia.
So we think the Kamis brand -- we'll continue to market it as Kamis in Poland and Russia at this point but we see it as offering a lot of opportunity for growth for us.
We're very very pleased with that acquisition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What kind of organic growth are you getting from Kamis right now? I don't have those numbers in front of me but I know that we're right on our acquisition plan.
But I don't have yet the numbers in front of me.
I think Joyce can help with that.
Yes historically it's been sort of a mid-single-digit rate.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question just about your guidance.
So you're taking up your marketing spending to -- compared to what you had before.
I think your JV income decline is more than what I would have thought previously yet your EPS guidance is unchanged.
Where is that money coming from? Well we just increased our CCI obviously as well.
So we're reinvesting behind our businesses.
We're generating more CCI.
So that's obviously giving us an opportunity to continue to invest behind our brands.
This is Gretchen calling in for Alexia.
Just a quick question on Kohinoor.
You guys mentioned that you have some new product launches that you're hoping to put through at the end of this year.
I'm just wondering when would you expect that to start benefiting the top line and how much benefit should we expect.
I don't know that we projected a top line result.
But because that business is growing through a combination of expanded distribution and new products that the products that we're introducing are products that are similar to our Zatarain's rice mixes.
We're calling them Rice and Spice and they're Biryani-type products that's -- that make it easy for Indian consumers to prepare staple kinds of meals.
But we -- this is kind of a first foray into those value-added products in India and so we're excited about it but I think it's too early to project what we think the benefit's going to be.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification regarding your guidance.
So you maintained EPS guidance despite lower unconsolidated income is because you now expect higher operating income for the year right? Yes we're still reiterating our operating income guidance at 9% to 11%.
We obviously had a little bit of a benefit from the tax rate as well in Q2.
As you saw that helped to offset that weakness on unconsolidated.
But given the fact that we are maintaining our range you could imply that perhaps our operating income would trend towards the upper end but we're still comfortable at that 9% to 11%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the U.S.
consumer and more generally on your brand marketing spending.
I mean what -- you obviously increased your marketing budget for this year.
That talks to the confidence that you have in the returns you'll get on that investment.
Where -- from a regional basis is it more skewed to one area versus another? And can you talk about what you're seeing in those regions where you're investing that makes you feel confident that investing more will generate at least the same returns you've been getting in the past or more? Yes.
I mean we continue to change our marketing mix to see -- to work on things that hit.
So we're moving more of our money into digital.
And some of that digital is regional where we're working with specific customers on promotions to really hit consumers.
By and large our marketing spend is national.
What we saw in the last quarter as we're heading into the third quarter is a pretty heavy spend behind our new products for our new grilling products.
We do have some regional promotions.
We've got a big Old Bay focus going on right now in the Baltimore area.
There's 50-plus restaurants that have special menu items and we've got billboards all over the place that kind of tie into the 18 -- War of 1812.
We are relaunching our dry seasoning mix products and have a number of new products behind that.
So we have a fair amount of activity.
Again as you'll look at how we've increased our marketing spend this is a consistent story that we've had over the last 5 or 6 years where we look to invest but we continue to manage our mix so that we're getting the highest returns that we can.
Research Division</strong> Just one last one on gross margins.
Longer term I mean obviously you've -- you had this long-term target of increasing gross margins every year but last couple of years because of input costs we haven't gotten there.
So what's the potential for gross margins longer term? Well we still believe on a long-term basis and the key event would be a less volatile commodity cost environment because that's what you just alluded to.
In the past 2 out of 4 years we've seen commodity cost 5 -- 2 out of 5 years.
So -- but in a more stable environment we would continue to believe the higher mix of the Consumer business would favorably impact that gross margin as well as the others that we have within the Industrial business on focus on higher value-added products should favorably impact that as well.
Yes.
The stable environment with our CCI efforts a lot of that -- a lot of the CCI will find its way back into margins in a volatile environment like we've been in.
We haven't priced to fully recover our cost.
So we've used that combination of pricing and CCI to try and moderate the impact on margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you 2 questions.
The first one just in relation to the cost inflation for the year.
I think you had indicated it was going to sort of step down sequentially each quarter.
I just want to get a sense this is a good gross margin performance in relation to that cost inflation.
Do we -- should we expect the second half gross margin to be up then for the business? Well we're still looking at stabilization of the gross margin.
A lot of things play into that product mix portfolio mix but we're not looking for a big rebound.
I mean you could see slight improvement as we progress through the year.
But generally the way we're looking at it is that it would be comparable to the prior year and be flattish.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask in relation to the U.S.
you've had some pretty solid growth overall.
Just in kind of studying some of the IRI and Nielsen trends it's shown that your branded sales have softened a little bit and private label has picked up by a little bit.
I know we're looking at just kind of some unique channels.
You're not looking at the all channel data.
Have you seen that -- any kind of sequential weakening basically between branded and private label in your business? I don't know that sequential weakening -- what we've actually seen is private label growing faster in grocery and our brand growing faster in unmeasured channels.
And so I think the consumer is going to some other places.
Certainly we're not happy about the results that we've seen in core grocery and we're working -- we've got a lot of efforts to make sure that we're not losing share there.
But what we're seeing is that we're holding share across the board and private label is growing in grocery.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one.
Gordon what sort of tax rates should we look at for the year? If you said it I'm sorry I missed it.
But is it around 30% for the year? The underlying rate we continue to expect to be around 30%.
Obviously as you saw in this quarter there can be a discrete item that pops up that can either be positive or negative depending on the fact and circumstances.
But the underlying rate we're still looking at 30%.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- we just had our conference in Europe.
A couple of companies preannounced their worse-than-expected trends but you had very respectable results in France the U.K.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about why the outperformance and why investors should think that can continue.
And then I have a follow-up.
Well what we've seen in this year is good results behind the investments that we've made in the business with a combination of new products and supporting those with pretty solid advertising.
Our homemade dessert item the Vahiné brand in France continues to perform pretty well.
And so while we recognize -- and I was in Europe last week too unfortunately not at your conference Eric but there is an underlying sense of a lack of confidence across the board and I think uncertainty.
So we're just going to continue to do what we do with our products.
But I do -- I absolutely acknowledge that it's a tough environment.
One thing that is helping us is Kamis continues to grow pretty well in Poland.
While the currency's weakening a little bit it seems to continue to be a pretty robust economy for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well the invitation to next year's conference is still open.
But in terms of the M&amp;A environment obviously this type of landscape makes for winners and losers.
You're winning and there's been a lot of companies over the years that are private that you've had your sights on.
And I'm just kind of wondering are you seeing a little bit more interest on their part whether it's family-run businesses or parts of other larger companies where there's been an approach and maybe we should expect a little bit more activity? Well we have an active pipeline.
And in our business we know the businesses that are attractive to us and we generally know the people that own them and nurture those relationships.
I'd say we still have a pretty active pipeline.
Research Division</strong> But I wanted to ask around the edges here.
At the Industrial business you said that there's higher demand for customized seasoning blends and it's across a variety of geographies.
Is that one customer introducing a new product across a variety of geographies?  Or what is that specifically? Well it is -- it certainly -- our expertise and focus is on savory seasonings.
A lot of those end up in snacks but a lot of companies are investing behind new product innovation in snacks.
But it's not specific to one customer.
We're -- we are seeing a fair bit of activity from a number of customers.
I'd also say though that while we have a robust pipeline there's a continued focus from a lot of our Industrial customers on productivity initiatives.
And in a lot of cases we can help with those with our products and help them deliver great flavor with reduced costs.
But where we really like to play is in the new product innovation.
Research Division</strong> So are you in both of those things right now? Is that what you mean Alan? Yes.
I think our efforts are pretty split.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Can you talk a little bit more about Kohinoor? Are you on plan in India as well as Poland? We heard from Hershey's saying that they've had troubles there and they aren't the first.
What are you finding about -- that's unique about that market? It just seems that selling spice and seasonings in a more value-added way would be a challenge particularly in India.
We're pretty much on plan with our business in India.
Certainly the environment is a little more volatile and the way we think about India is really as a long-term great growing market.
And we know it's not going to be smooth.
There'll be some bumps along the way but we're pleased with where we are so far in that business and excited about the prospects as we invest in new products.
But remember our core business in India isn't selling spices to Indians.
We're selling higher-value-added rice products and we're selling through our joint venture in Southern India more value-added blends.
So it's less about selling those core spices which are available on every street and more about selling value-added products.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And lastly CapEx.
Your CapEx spend is flat versus a year ago for the first 6 months.
I think I would expect it to be a little bit higher I think because now you have those acquisitions.
What is your CapEx guidance again for this year? And at some point will you need to increase capacity and CapEx spending for those deals? Yes.
Actually we are still forecasting in $100 million to $110 million in CapEx spending.
I know it's not reflected yet at the beginning part of the year but we're still projecting that.
And it does reflect what you just said Rob.
To some extent it's organic growth in some of our emerging markets where we actually are adding capacity because of the growth that we've experienced in places like China and in other cases it is through the integration of our new acquisitions and just by virtue of the fact that these acquisitions themselves had a CapEx budget that we now have included.
Yes.
We've got a new technical center and a plant expansion in Guangzhou that will be online later in the year.
We're starting to work on plant expansion in Poland.
So there's a fairly good investment program that we expect it'll be right in line with our capital forecasts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up a little bit on a couple of items.
One you've mentioned strong trends in the QSR channel.
Has that changed at all? Has that trend either accelerated or changed? I don't think it's changed very much.
I think there was -- within QSR there are companies that are doing well and companies that are struggling a little bit.
Remember we're pretty well invested in QSR in most of our major markets in the U.S.
and Europe and in China.
So we're continuing to see good growth in China.
We had some volume wins in the U.S.
which we're seeing that are reflecting.
So it's not necessarily that the customers are growing as much as we had some share gains.
So I don't think that there's a major change in that trend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we attended your Investor Day I thought the discussion about your global management board was interesting.
Are there other any new developments coming out of that global management board? Well we're continuing to invest in -- we really use that as our key source of executive development and we're continuing to invest in that.
Our boards are ongoing and they bring us projects that either help us grow our business or reduce our costs.
So it's an -- it really is an ongoing effort and they're working on some of the big strategic projects for the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally I always ask about the fall bake season.
How is it -- how's the selling going? We're pretty encouraged.
We really feel like we're locked for a good fall season.
Obviously we need the -- a return to more traditional weather.
But I would say that we feel like our plans are well in place.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
A couple sort of follow-ups.
Just regarding brand marketing support.
Where is that focused for the upcoming quarter and maybe the second half? And then how does that -- are we talking above the line or below the line or both? Well it's a little bit of both.
I mean we certainly as we always do are looking at some value programs.
Some of that is what we would call I guess below the line where we're investing in advertising reminding people the value of our products.
There are some promotional activity.
There always is.
I would say the promotional activity is much higher than it is in previous periods.
But the real effort is in -- is making sure that we're communicating about our new products.
And as we head into the fall season we've got a good campaign on Grill Mates right now.
We've got a good campaign on Old Bay and Zatarain's and the new products for Zatarain's in the U.S.
And then in the fall we'll be emphasizing the baking products and then as we head into Christmas more of the holiday meal kind of products.
Just to add to that Mitch last year if you recall we incrementally spend in the fourth quarter against holiday and it was approximately about a $10 million increase versus the prior year in advertising and promotion.
And that was a function of the good result that we saw from the holiday programs in prior years.
So we're going to be hitting holiday again hard this year.
Research Division</strong> But it will be -- will it be sort of at the same rate as last year? Yes.
The back half would be generally at the same spending levels as last year up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How did -- I mean you sort of mentioned this earlier.
But how did your alternative channels perform versus the traditional food-drug en masse? Well a little stronger than the traditional grocery.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in -- when you look at within your core spice business in the U.S.
how did the -- your traditional single spice business do compared to your seasoning blends and those sort of higher-value-added products? Over the last 13 and 52 weeks volume was down a bit in grocery on core items.
Dry seasoning mixes were also down a bit.
In spices we made that up with the other channels.
In dry seasoning mixes that's a category that we're in the process of refreshing and we believe need some renewed investment.
Now dry seasoning mixes are coming off a couple of years of really strong growth as the economy weakened.
So we may be reverting a bit to the mean but we're continuing to invest.
That's an important business for us and we get a lot of great new products and new packaging that we're in the process of introducing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question is also -- if you could just remind me sort of where -- in your CCI cost-savings program where you're focused where you're seeing the incremental savings emanating from.
As you may recall back in March we took it up this year's to $45 million.
And generally what we're still seeing is about a 60-40 split between Consumer and Industrial on those and still about 75% 80% would hit the cost of goods sold line and the rest would be hitting SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> I know we're up against the time.
So just a quick follow-up.
You had mentioned already about some of the trends you've seen around alternate channels and your performance there versus private label and others.
We all get the expanded outlet coverage data this coming week or Monday basically.
Anything you would basically tell us to sort of look for insight do you think we should be looking for out of that expanded coverage data? And if it's really the same as what you've already said that's fine.
But if there's anything else we should be looking at in general I would love to hear it.
Yes.
I think we've been pretty transparent on what we do expect to see.
I mean I think from our -- I can't speak to any other category but ours but I would say that we would see a little stronger performance as you see that expanded data versus what you're currently seeing.
With no other questions I want to thank everybody for participating in the call.
I'm really confident that we're doing the right things and executing effectively to succeed in a difficult environment.
McCormick has a great portfolio of products across both our business segments and our operations around the world where we bring our passion for flavor to customers and consumers.
As demonstrated by our financial results we're delivering higher performance and committed to increasing value for our shareholders.
Thanks everyone.
And I'd like to add my thanks to those that participated on the call.
Through July 4 you can access a telephone replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The account number for this replay is 309 and the ID number is 394563.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today's information or any other questions you can reach me at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!