[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm kind of popping a couple of quick questions.
Are you able to quantify how large the industrial sales are into China? I guess our look at it has been that it's a fairly small proportion of your total company sales or even the sales of that segment.
So I was just curious about that.
And if you could give us an idea of how much they were down this quarter that will be helpful.
And then just a second broader question.
Do you have views on what's going wrong with the quick service restaurant sector in the U.S.? It seems as though it was in recovery about 1 year 18 months ago and now it seems to be dropping off again.
And I'm wondering if you just have any high-level thoughts on what might be driving that because it seems peculiar given recovery that we're seeing elsewhere across this huge space.
Sure.
Our industrial sales in China are between 2% and 3% of our total sales.
So it's significant.
It's been a good growing business but it's not an overwhelmingly growing business.
I think what's happening with overall restaurant sales and we're seeing a bifurcation I think across a lot of categories with how consumers are spending.
Consumers that are under stress are certainly experiencing the impact of the increased spike attacks and fuel prices as well as a whole lot of other stresses and they're not spending.
Consumers at the higher end seem to be at least so far continuing to spend.
So I think we're seeing a little bit of that play out in our business as well.
We would think that would tend to impact the quick service restaurants more than some of the other broad food service channels.
It's interesting if you look at that chart that we showed on restaurant traffic we were starting to see some sequential recovery which kind of went away in the first quarter.
And we think over time that will continue to get back.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to make sure I understood the guidance for the industrial segment this year.
I think you've guided to the low end of the 3% to 5% organic range or toward that end but you just did minus 3%.
Will the second half be enough to get to that plus 3%? Or is my math wrong there? No that is the guidance.
We were saying that the industrial business will be towards the lower end of that 3% to 5% on a sales growth basis.
And our expectation is that recovery will start to occur as we progress through the year weighted more towards the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question.
We're seeing not just you guys but a couple of other food companies and I realize that you guided to a reversal of this next quarter and historically you've done a good job of spending behind your brands.
But you did lower your marketing as a percent of your consumer sales this quarter.
Other companies like I said have done the same.
Is there something that we should be looking at that you see across food? I mean you see so many different food companies out there that would lead to this happening at a particular time when maybe I didn't perceive that it would happen.
I thought some companies would kind of reinvest drive the volumes a little bit higher both through promotions and advertising.
And we're seeing some companies really cut that ad spending as a percent of sales.
Is there something you're aware of that maybe we haven't thought of or I haven't thought of that's driving some companies in the food space to do this right now? I can't speak broadly to what everybody's strategy is.
But I know in our thinking we've had so much pricing over the last couple of years that we believe it's -- we're working on getting the right shelf price.
So we -- so as you saw in the quarter we increased our promotion spend a little bit and didn't increase our advertising spend.
Now for us we're coming off a pretty heavy increase in the first quarter of last year.
So for us it's just kind of rebalancing and we still expect that our advertising spend for the year will be up pretty much in line with our sales growth so kind of in that 3% to 5% range.
What I do see a number of companies doing and talking about is again getting the shelf price right so that they're capturing volume.
I think everybody like we are are expecting this year's growth to be driven much more by volume than necessarily pricing as we've seen some amount of stability in commodity prices.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about just the cadence of commodity or raw material costs and what this might imply for perhaps '14.
It seems like your guidance assumes significant improvement in gross margins.
I'm getting to around 150 basis points in the back half of the year.
Can you help us understand like what are we going to see in terms of commodity prices or raw material costs in the back half of the year? And are you taking any positions for 2014? Is 2014 supposed to be a down year in raw material prices? Or is that too sort of early to even think about that? Starting with 2014 I'm reluctant to go that far out with any forecasting given the volatile environment we've lived through in the past 5 years.
So I don't want to talk too specifically about 2014 or our positions.
But to help you with our thinking in the back half of the year on the gross margin improvement it's going to be a combination of things that we discussed in the call.
One is certainly the material cost inflation we see easing as we go into the back half of the year so we're feeling that 3% guidance more in the front half of the year.
The second is the CCI for us occurs throughout the year.
So we'll be incurring the CCI benefits as we progress and that will help offset that as we get into the back half of the year and actually help improve margins.
And then lastly the business mix both within the portfolio and the total portfolio.
If you recall that fourth quarter which is a large quarter for us was not as strong as we wanted in the fourth quarter for our U.S.
consumer business.
And our expectation this year is that business will perform better and that in fact will have a very positive impact on gross margin.
And within our industrial business we're looking for the product portfolio itself to improve as we look at the pipeline and the types of items we'll be launching again skewed towards the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one follow-up on your Indian business.
Can you give us more color as to what's happening? I know you once you bought the business you've had made some changes to the distribution model.
If I remember correctly I think you said sales were up 19% but volumes were down.
I was surprised by that.
I mean I'm aware that basmati rice costs are up but I was under the impression volumes for the industry are up significantly as well.
So can you just help us understand broader picture like what's going on in India what you perhaps learned since you bought that business? Well we've learned a lot and are continuing to learn every day in that market.
What I would say is I think our volumes may have been impacted a little bit by pricing which the industry is broadly taking.
And we feel pretty comfortable with our supply chain and distribution model that we'll be able to show long-term growth in that business.
But as always happens as we integrate a new acquisition we look at the business model.
There's a little bit of structural change going on in our business but we're pretty encouraged by long-term growth there.
And in our other joint ventures as well in India we've seen some pretty solid growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the expansion of Kamis into Russia.
Are you taking legacy Kamis products into Russia? Are you taking McCormick products into Russia now? What is the size of the overall opportunity in eastern Europe? And kind of which inning are you in at this point? Yes we're very early.
We have a -- we've continued to expand distribution in Russia primarily with the Kamis brand out of Poland and we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
And primarily what we're seeing right now is a growth in distribution.
Russia like a lot of more emerging economies especially in the spice business is largely a lower-cost bulk business.
But as the economy is growing there's a real interest in modern trade and in safe convenient packaged products and that's what we're selling.
So we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
Russia has been a very very fast-growing business in our category and we believe it's got great opportunity for us to continue to invest and expand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I take your $0.60 guidance for the second quarter and look at the seasonality between first half and second half of this year it seems to me that the year is most skewed towards the second half in at least 3 or 4 years.
Is that just coincidence or is your business changing to business that is really more biased towards the second half of the year? Is anything going on that we should be aware of? Well historically our business has skewed towards the end of the year and specifically in the fourth quarter so we do continue to see that.
I think the dynamics this year are a little bit of the comparisons to last year where we had a weaker end of year last year than we would have liked and have normally experienced that we expect to get back to more of a normal pattern.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I'm surprised no one has mentioned weather as being the primary reason for tough comparisons in quick serve restaurants in the first quarter.
And I wanted to know if you thought that the warm weather last year contributed to your strength in that segment last year and set up the tough comp this year.
And then conversely do you think you got a benefit in your consumer business in first quarter? And then secondly there's a very early Easter in the first quarter and I want to know if anything got pulled forward into first quarter for the consumer business from the early Easter.
And what does that mean for maybe a slower pace of growth in the second quarter? Yes.
Certainly last year's weather and we didn't rely too much on excuses then but last year's weather certainly impacted a number of our seasonal items early in the year.
And we think that did impact and this year is more of a normalized pattern.
So we think that could have happened.
As we look at our business to quick service restaurants we could point specifically to some new product wins which launched early last year that drove a lot of that business.
There may have been some underlying weather events that -- good weather that got people out so there may be some impact of that.
We've looked at the impact of early Easter in our U.S.
business and we think there may be some slight impact but not significant because it was later in the month and only a little bit more than a week earlier than last year.
So we think there may be some slight uptick but we're encouraged by what we've seen in our U.S.
consumer business.
We think it was good execution on our Super Bowl event that created a pretty good momentum as well as some more normal weather patterns.
Research Division</strong> Alan branded food sales for you in the U.S.
like your sales to branded food manufacturers you said was flat but you said you have a lot in the pipeline coming.
Can you talk a little bit about your customers there and how they're looking at innovation this year? My perception is that they're doing a lot more but then again I was surprised to see first quarter being flat.
I thought you'd be a little bit higher.
Yes I think what I've seen from the food manufacturers as you well know a lot of our customers were going through a number of structural changes last year as they changed -- as some of the companies were being split some were going through major restructuring and I think there was more of a focus on managing costs.
What I'm seeing right now is back to a focus on growth but a focus on fewer bigger initiatives in innovation.
So while I'm comfortable that we have a good pipeline and expect to see that benefit us as we talked about through the second half of the year there wasn't the kind of new product activity that we have historically seen early in the year from a number of our customers.
Now remember we're not necessarily a harbinger of what other -- all the companies are doing because if we are participating in a new product launch we'll benefit from it.
They may be still be launching stuff that we're not participating in.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify I guess is the discussion you had with Ken on the marketing spending.
Was this the plan to kind of have this shift between Q1 and Q2? And if not like -- I mean did you plan this coming into the fiscal year or did you respond based on the fact as you talked about inter-quarter here and see something that made you think you want to spend more in the second quarter? No it was a plan and a part of that promotion spend is product allowances to get new stuff on the shelf.
So we've had -- we typically in a number of our businesses don't pay major allowances.
But as we launched things like Big Easy Rice and some of the steak sauces there is a bit of that impact and it was a part of our plan to be able to do that.
I'm a big supporter of continuing to manage and increase our advertising spend and I think you'll see -- and you've seen it consistently we've more than doubled it in my tenure.
I think you'll continue to see that we'll invest behind the consumer.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just another follow-up.
Is it -- you have every reason to believe that one of your main customers in China will recover eventually and there's some reason to believe with the promotions going on there that you'll see recovery in the second half.
I mean how -- if that were not to materialize is it fair to say then that recovery on that particular customer that it would be difficult to make your guidance? I would not expect that to be the case.
I do know that there is a lot of focus on making sure that -- from our customers that consumers get back in the stores.
I'd also say that because of the impact of that business on our overall company that I would not expect that to be the reason that we'd miss.
I mean certainly it wouldn't help but we expect a recovery.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick things.
First with respect to gross margin in the first quarter.
I know you went through a lot of the puts and takes Gordon.
And maybe I don't appreciate the level of inflation that you did have in input costs in the first quarter just because usually if you get 5% of volume growth and 2% of pricing in your consumer business normally that drives a pretty awesome amount of sort of margin leverage in the quarter.
So I'm just trying to get a sense was there anything else in there that we should be aware of or am I just not appreciating the level of the skew of input costs to sort of the first part of the year versus the second? I wouldn't suggest there's anything else in there Andrew.
Obviously the $3 million up spend and some of the pricing and promotion impacts gross margin as well because that's going to be between the gross and net sales line.
But the other impact was clearly the industrial business which not only had the volume declines but as we mentioned in the call had a negative mix as well within that business due to again some of the timing of the items that we're expecting to occur later in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I had this right I think last quarter Alan you said the level of activity in terms of potential M&amp;A was maybe not as robust as you'd seen in prior years.
And I'm just curious if there's any update to that.
Like we're still in this very low interest rate environment obviously it won't be around forever and from a seller's perspective it's hard to imagine a time where it'd be more attractive to think about selling an asset.
Yes I mean we still have a pretty active pipeline.
And I don't know what's going to happen through the rest of the industry.
But I'd say we have an active pipeline that we feel pretty good about but we're not seeing a flurry of things coming to market at this point.
Now a lot of the stuff that we'd be looking at wouldn't necessarily come to market but we're not -- so I'd say from our standpoint we're seeing an active pipeline but we're not necessarily ready to pull the trigger on anything right now.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
It's been a long time since I've heard McCormick talk about higher allowances.
I realize that it doesn't sound like it's a big number but is that -- like how should I take that? I mean what does that mean -- like what's going on on the shelf that allowances are moving up? Well I think it was a combination of 2 things.
One is the kinds of new products that we launched in the first quarter and then secondly working on getting the right price promotions.
So it's -- again like we said it's not a big number.
It is -- it impacted what you'd see in net sales in the first quarter.
I would just differentiate that Eric compared to your historical memory which may be what you're referencing which was driven by a lot of competitive activity where this was a combination of what Alan just described.
This was new product placement and some planned promotions to drive volume in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So nowadays when you guys are referring to allowances you're really referring more to promotion as opposed to having to pay some retailer for shelf space for whatever 2 or 3 years which...
You're absolutely right.
That's absolutely right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second can you -- maybe kind of on an annual basis you referenced how big the emerging market is as a percentage of the total.
You've been putting more emphasis on that in the last couple of years.
How much was like let's say your emerging market business up? Do you look at it that way these days like in the quarter? We do on an annual basis not in the quarter.
Gordon is going to see if he can put his hands on the data.
But our emerging market business would be up and we expect it to be up substantially as we complete this deal with Wuhan in China.
But we don't necessarily look at it that way in the quarter.
Yes.
I'll have to circle back to you Eric.
But I mean clearly if you look -- think of the components on the consumer side it was up in strong-double digit for them so that's definitely a strong number.
Clearly as we talked about the China industrial side of things it was weaker.
So I'd have to see how that adds up in total for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the reason why I'm asking is because for the most part over the last 10-plus years you guys have executed very well on pretty much every acquisition except that one in Holland years ago.
But it doesn't sound like Kohinoor is doing that well and that gives me a little bit of pause.
I mean you know we follow this little company Amira and they're growing their India business by -- way in double digits in terms of volume.
And you're saying that your -- that business is -- that volume was impacted.
So I'm kind of -- is that -- like is this something that we need to watch out for? I mean I guess it's not that big but then again emerging markets is where you're putting a lot of capital.
Kohinoor specifically was up around 20% in sales in local currency.
But that's -- as we said before it's a combination of pricing significant double-digit pricing upwards of 20% and a small decline in volume which we feel compared well to some of the other competitors in India.
So that's kind of the dynamic we're facing in this fiscal year.
Yes I mean our understanding Eric is that there is sensitivity to price in the basmati rice market.
I know there's companies out there talking about their growth.
Some of that is distribution-driven.
Kohinoor already has a very strong distribution network at 400 000 points where I believe some of the other conversations you may be hearing are being driven by distribution.
So there is some expectation at the type of pricing that you'll see some basmati rice softness and that does not in any way color our view on the opportunity that India presents because we continue to use that brand name and that distribution system to launch new products.
And that was part of the original acquisition plan and that's continuing to be what we execute against.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Andrew's earlier question about the acquisition environment.
You commented that maybe from your perspective while the pipeline is still there there's not as many maybe opportunities.
And I wondered if you could address whether that reflected the quality of the assets that are potentially up for sale or whether it had to do more with the price that sellers are looking for at this point.
No I think it's more structurally what's happened in the industry as companies are kind of consolidating.
They went through a major portfolio shift last year and as companies are consolidating now they aren't necessarily paring down their portfolio.
So some of those established brands that we may expect to see just as a matter of routine aren't coming to market right now.
On the other hand a number of the kinds of assets that we look at are individually owned by entrepreneurs and so theirs are more -- at some point it will make sense for them to look for an exit strategy.
And we get to know them and we talk to them and make sure they know of our interest and that's what we would expect.
And we've talked about this in the past when we did the Kamis acquisition.
We've known that business and that owner for more than a decade and at a point it made sense for him.
That tends to be more what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then if I could just ask one follow-up on a different note.
And I apologize if I missed this but I was wondering if you could provide any details in terms of how your distribution or distribution gains are going with regard to some of the more alternative type channels like dollar stores and drugstores? Yes we've continued to grow distribution and brand offerings in those channels which is really strong.
Because what we've seen is those channels have migrated from very low priced not very high quality products in our category to a lot more branded offerings.
And so we're benefiting from that both in dollar the drug channel somewhat.
But we're still seeing opportunity for growth there.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One if I can get an update on your R&amp;D facility that opened I believe in January in China and how we should think about leveraging your now global R&amp;D capabilities.
And then my second question has to do with should we still expect a new product or a new flavor delivery item by the end of the year to be launched? First on the technical center we're very pleased with the expansion and the new innovation center in China where we have a space now where we can collaborate with customers.
We have a culinary center very much like the model that we have in Hunt Valley as we've done this in other parts of the world.
So we're pretty enthusiastic about that.
And we're operating -- we've made some organizational changes about 2 years ago to align our technical function our R&amp;D function under a Chief Science Officer with Hamed Faridi.
And so we're seeing the benefits of that and it's allowed us to move people from different markets and get some good overlap in experience and leverage our science from one area to the other.
So I think we're pleased with that.
We are -- the new technology that you're talking about in flavor we're expecting to be more -- to impact more 2014 and '15 than we are to impact 2013.
Just a couple quick data points Gordon.
What was the CCI cost savings during the quarter and what was the contribution from the partial recovery from that supplier that was actually a negative in the previous quarter? The CCI cost savings they occurred fairly evenly throughout the year.
So if you take $45 million and assume about 1/4 of that that's a good estimate as to what occurred in the quarter.
The partial recovery we're still in discussions so it's a bit of a sensitive timing issue as we would talk to all the various parties.
I would say it was not material in terms of how much we had.
It was not material to the quarter.
Not material but more to come? That depends on the discussions quite frankly.
Thanks for your questions everyone and participating in the call.
McCormick's leaders and employees all around the world are working to overcome the challenges of today's environment deliver increased sales and profit and build value for our shareholders.
Consumer interest in flavor continues to expand in both developed and emerging markets.
McCormick is meeting this demand with our growth initiatives increased global presence and our passion for flavor.
Thanks Alan.
I'd like to add my appreciation to those that participated on today's call.
Through April 7 you may access a replay of the call by dialing (877) 660-6853.
The conference ID number is 409379.
You can also listen to a replay on our website later today.
If you have any additional questions regarding the information today or anything else to discuss I welcome your call at (410) 771-7244.
This concludes this morning's conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!