[Operator instructions.] Your first question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Could you provide us with a little bit more insight on how this quarter was so much better than what you initially expected? Where was the upside surprise? It’s in a few areas.
It would be stronger growth in pretty much all of our businesses outside the U.S.
and within the gross margin it was stronger gross margin based on the mix that we experienced within the quarter.
So I would say those two factors are primary ones that outdelivered relative to our initial expectations.
Is the stronger growth outside of the US driven by one-time factors because based on what I’m hearing about the world outside the U.S.
it’s not looking necessarily that much better from a macro perspective.
Well there’s nothing one-time in nature within the quarter.
I mean it was all driven by the brand marketing support innovation and on the industrial side the strength of our customer relationships.
So I can’t say that there was an anomaly within it.
Certainly we see the world that we operate in and understand it’s a difficult environment and that continues to give us caution as well.
I’d say one thing where we’re a little counter to some of the rest of what we’re reading is our business in China is continuing to show strong growth and we’re gaining distribution of our core business and then the acquisition of WAPC has outperformed what we expected it to.
And then on Kohinoor you called out high price increases due to higher input costs again and the impact on volume.
What we’re hearing from other basmati rice companies in India they seem to be faring much better with these price increases and might have a different input cost profile than you do.
Can you provide a little bit more background there what the level of input cost increase is and why the impact on volume is so meaningful? We’re seeing about a 20-plus percent increase in the cost of rice and are passing that through and are dealing with that with volume.
We may have a bit of a different supply chain model than some of our competitors there because we are more -- remember our strategy in India is to use the access to the supply chain and the customer base to expand into different areas.
So while Basmati rice is the business today that’s not our long term intention.
So we have a little bit different objective and a different profile than some of our competitors there.
My question is on the Europe business which is strong and it sounds like there’s a lot of support put behind it.
From what we’ve seen that region can be rather volatile and recently we’ve only heard negative commentary on grocery there.
So what we’d like to know is what gives you the confidence that what you’re seeing here is sustainable growth? I’d never say it’s ever not going to be a bit volatile but what we’re doing is driving our new product innovation supporting it with pretty strong advertising both in our core spice and seasoning business and the recipe mix business that we have in France and we’re seeing the response from that.
That doesn’t say Europe’s not a tough place to operate and is not highly competitive but we’re gaining traction from the programs that we have.
And then just as a follow up on the value side the plan to turn around the U.S.
consumer business according to our scanner data it looks like private label continues to take share and you had mentioned kind of innovation ranging from the value to the premium side so I guess I wanted to know how you plan to combat the private label competition specifically.
We offer a broad range of products across all the price points and to remind you we do produce private label so that’s a part of what’s in our portfolio as well.
What we’re doing is one making sure we’ve got the right promoted price at the right times of the year when consumers are buying.
The second thing is building the equity behind our brand and then driving product innovation in the category.
I think the spice and seasonings business it’s still going to take some time.
We’re encouraged by what we’re seeing in our core business our core products early on and that’s what we’re supporting with advertising.
We’re also driving the category and gaining share in our recipe mix business.
So we’ve got early signs of traction.
We’re not calling the turnaround yet but we are encouraged by what we’re seeing.
Wanted to ask about the industrial operating margin.
When I look over a multiquarter period of time really in 2013 every quarter seem to get sequentially better although clearly on a year over year basis a number of those quarters in fiscal ’13 were down from fiscal ’12.
The simple question here is you had nice improvement year on year in the first quarter industrial margins.
Do you expect that to continue and is the pattern of sequential improvement throughout ’13 indicative as to what’s happening within the business? It’s a fair observation.
And certainly we are building upon the improvement that we saw in the fourth quarter which was very strong margin for that business and we’re pleased with the performance we saw in Q1.
We certainly look for better performance on the industrial business.
The absolute margin is a function of promotional activity and mix of the business within the quarter so I’m a little cautious about saying that each quarter will get sequentially better but I’d say overall we certainly are looking for an industrial margin improvement.
And it’s a function of the recovery that we’re seeing in some of those markets like China a slightly more benign inflationary environment and good CCI performance.
But I’m encouraged by the performance but we’re still a bit cautious on predicting it quarter by quarter.
Can you just say what are the factors that are causing that fiscal second quarter to be flattish year on year? It seems like when we just look at the first quarter results a lot of the things that happened in the first quarter repeat in the second quarter yet you’re expecting a worse result versus the growth that we saw in Q1.
So what’s happening in Q2? Well we’re going to lean into our business again so the brand marketing support that you saw in Q1 we’re repeating that again in Q2 and perhaps even a little more.
As we mentioned the unconsolidated income line will continue to be impacted by some of these relocation costs that we saw in Q1 from our unconsolidated venture in Mexico.
You heard us talk about some of our caution on the QSR side of things in the U.S.
and we’re still encouraged by the early signs of the U.S.
consumer business but we are up against some strong comparisons in the second quarter of last year where we great volume quite strongly.
So that’s part of our caution as well.
I hear you on all of those comments.
I would only say that from the outside it looks like those are consistent with the same forces that impacted Q1.
So it’s not immediately obvious why Q2 would be flat but I’ll leave it there.
Just to touch on the global industrial for a second and the strength there I think Thilo might have asked this question in another way but with the Heinz 3G Burger King connection they made some strides with McDonald’s did you pick up some McDonald’s business? And has that been a help to that side of the company? Well as you know that is a significant customer for us and we supply them around the world.
So there has been some realignment in the supply chain there and we’ve been growing our business with that customer in Europe and in China.
Just where we picked it up from is tougher to say.
And then the second question on the U.S.
consumer business Alan I asked you last quarter was the weakness that you had reported in the fourth quarter really just a function of core spice and seasonings or was it broader based into things like Zatarain’s and some of the grilling items etc.? Can you go into a little bit more detail? It sounds like this core spice and seasonings business was still pretty weak but is that true with some of the other products as well? Or did you make improvement there? We’re seeing improvement actually in our core spices and our recipe mixes.
We’re still seeing some weakness in some of those other brands and some of it’s driven by our promotion plans from last year.
We were pretty heavy early in the year.
Is there going to be more spread this year? Secondly a little bit of a lighter Mardi Gras and I never want to use weather as an excuse but we’re seeing in Zatarain’s for instance the cost of crawfish pretty high right now.
We’d expect this to be coming into pretty heavy crawfish season the weather has made that a little later.
But fundamentally what we’re doing is driving behind our core business which is our most profitable business and then over time we’re addressing the other businesses.
I’m going to have to keep better track of my crawfish pricing index.
Yeah right now it’s about $5 and in the middle of the season it should be about $3.50.
You’re wondering why I know that.
And then just as a quick follow up and then I’ll pass it on I think you mentioned that you had put more money behind the gourmet line.
And I guess that’s your highest price point in the core spices business? Did I hear that correctly? And is that kind of the response to some of the other spice products being available in other aisles of the store and that’s kind of at least initially how you intend to combat the new competitors in various outlets? Well we segment the consumer in a couple of different ways.
One is by price point the other is by how involved they are in cooking.
And gourmet is the involved cook who wants the best product and so we are supporting and differentiating our product based on our freshness and unique sourcing of those products.
So that is one part and one segment that we’re going after.
The other part of that is the more core and value price consumer.
We have some other programs to try to impress that.
And then later in the year we have a relaunch of our gourmet products that we’re expecting to roll out.
I wanted to ask about the comment you made on the U.S.
consumer segment.
You said you were seeing early signs of some improvement I believe.
Can you give us some color on that? What is it exactly that you’re seeing that makes you feel that way.
We’re seeing our share gap closing with our core spices.
We’re seeing growth and actually share gains in our recipe mixes.
And we are seeing a flattening of share from some of those fragmented competitors that we talked about.
Private label continues to gain but the regional and smaller competitors are flattening out a bit.
And in terms of your decision to continue to spend heavily behind that can you give us some sense of you already had a pretty dominant share of [voice] in that segment or category.
Can you talk about the returns you’re seeing on the incremental dollars you’re spending? Are they still pretty high return and better than the industry average for every incremental dollar that you’re spending on advertising? We’re still continuing to see pretty strong ROIs based on the spending that we have and in fact advertising and our digital programs have much higher ROIs than the promotional spends that we were doing.
We got a little heavy I think over the last year in promotional spend and not all of those were great paybacks and didn’t build equity.
So we’ve adjusted our spending away from promotions.
But we’ve adjusted our spending to more focus on equity building.
And last one on the Kohinoor acquisition if you just take a step back can you summarize how that acquisition has performed since you bought it? There’s been some puts and takes.
And then just give us a sense of where you are really.
Are you in the first or second inning of your strategy to introduce new products through that distribution chain? So perhaps what may have happened that’s worse than your expectations so far and then sort of where are we now relative to your broader longer term plan in India? I think we’re in the early stages of our plan in India.
The things that we have done over the last year we didn’t acquire the full supply chain for that business in India because what we wanted was the retail presence and the ability to drive other products through that chain.
What we’ve done over the last year has been to beef up our own supply chain to improve our service levels and to get better control of our inventory.
We’re focused on continuing to build our capabilities there and to start to introduce those new products.
We have those products in place now and we’re starting to roll those out.
We’ve got our distribution chain in place.
We expect to continue to see it grow but again to remind you of our strategy in emerging markets we have a tendency to pay as we go.
So we’re not going to get out over the tips of our skis and invest and lose a lot of money in a market until we’re sure we have the infrastructure to support it and then we’ll expand as we go.
That’s exactly what we did in China that’s what we’re doing in India.
You asked how it’s performing it’s performing below our expectations at this point but we feel like we’ve got the right plans to address it.
The first one if I could ask is a bit of a follow on to Dave Driscoll’s question about Q2.
I guess I also had been planning on a bit of an Easter shift into Q2 as well.
Is that occurring? Can you give us a better sense of how it helped Q2? That’s a difficult one to predict quite honestly.
And we haven’t talked about that and certainly our internal forecast that is guiding us toward the direction we’re giving you now has accounted for that.
But I couldn’t quantify that for sure for you right now.
There is some shift in timing and it could have an impact but our current outlook is exactly what Gordon says.
Could you cite how much emerging market growth you had this quarter? What sort of dollar sales growth did you see in those markets? Was that a significant contributor to the first quarter? Well certainly the Wuhan acquisition is emerging markets so we broke that out for you separately and we talked about China being up 20% also on the consumer side and then double digit on the industrial side.
So we’re talking double digit type increases on the emerging market side.
So it was a big help and that was one of the outperformers on the quarter relative to our expectations.
It drove a lot of the consumer growth rate.
If I could maybe squeeze in one more which is in relation to the marketing did more of the marketing this quarter go towards Europe? And it looks like you had a pretty significant increase there and maybe you’ll spread it more towards the U.S.
in the second quarter? Just curious how the phasing will go in between divisions.
No Europe was up about 38% but half the marketing increased spend was in the U.S.
First as you look into the summer and you see much higher meat costs approaching just curious how that affects your marketing plan in any way for grilling.
And second it looks like Cerberus will be on track to buy Safeway here.
If that deal goes through do you expect it will affect your distribution in any way? I’m just curious if you’re stronger with either of those customers.
In terms of meat costs because our grilling portfolio has a wide range of products that are good for a wide range of meat even if the consumer starts trading from filets to cheaper cuts of meat or even to burgers a lot of our innovation actually is actually the burger mixes.
So what we think will impact us more is the return to more normal weather.
We’re really hoping for some better weather as we head into the Memorial Day weekend.
But our products will span across the broad range whether it’s pork or chicken or hamburger obviously our Montreal steak is great on steaks and we hope the consumers are continuing to buy.
But we think we’re well-positioned no matter what’s happening across the broad portfolio.
In terms of the Safeway Albertson’s acquisition/merger we have a good position with both those customers and so we’re not anticipating this to have a significant impact on our business.
We do have a strong relationship with both of them.
As long as they’re driving to win in the marketplace we think that’s good for us.
Two questions from me.
The first one obviously you talked about seeing some of the early signs and I guess I was under the impression it’s probably still the case that this kind of turnaround in the U.S.
consumer is still going to take some time.
But I guess things are reacting maybe positively a little more quickly than maybe I had thought.
Is it fair to say that the brand equity building part is what’s currently driving some of those early signs and the winning at retail piece is going to take more time? Or is that not the right way to look at it? I think that’s kind of the right way to look at it.
I don’t want to get over-optimistic because we know it is going to take some time but we are doing exactly what we said we were going to do.
We’re out selling our message with retailers.
That is a customer by customer and in some cases region by region approach that is going to take some time.
And frankly it’s never done because when we present something that works for us the competitors in there are presenting something else as well.
So that’s going to be a longer slog but we immediately changed our focus into building consumer equity and we’re starting to see some of the benefits of that.
In terms of the winning at retail piece even though it’s very early are there any anecdotal thoughts you can share with maybe how some of those conversations have gone? Are you seeing traction where you’ve had some conversations in sort of communicating to retailers where this makes sense and where some of their actions don’t make as much sense for them? Yeah we are seeing certainly varying degrees of acceptance and action in the store from that but what we’re really showing them is the best way to grow their sales and profits in this category and we’re benefitting from the fact that the best way for them to grow their sales and profits is the same thing that works for us which is to sell more higher-turning McCormick SKUs as opposed to lower-turning cheaper alternative products.
And then last quarter on the call we talked a little bit about how you were looking at potentially some different options in order to address the consumer trends both at the value end and the premium end and potentially could include thinking about a different line for sort of evaluating let’s say.
Maybe it’s under the McCormick name maybe it’s under a different name or somehow related.
But I didn’t know if there were any conclusions you came to with respect to how to address that and if there were going to be some other new items there along those lines that we just haven’t seen yet.
Yeah we are working on some premium solutions as well as some more value solutions.
We already have a number of the offerings in the value range and our strategy with those is to meet a customer need.
Because those don’t necessarily drive traffic and they don’t necessarily drive profitability for the retailer or for us but they’re there to meet a customer need.
We have a number of those offerings and we’re continuing to evaluate what the right value offerings are.
The premium we’ve got some very concrete plans.
Just two quick questions and maybe one last one on China.
The quarter was quite strong.
Do you feel like you’re starting to get more of a mass there now in terms of maybe distribution wins getting a little bit easier than 12 months earlier? And then just maybe building on that are there more M&amp;A opportunities that could further accelerate things there? We certainly feel good that we’re building scale in our consumer business in China.
Our core business has continued to grow pretty strongly and then Wuhan WAPC is an accelerator to that because it gets us access to a much bigger sales force in a different part of the country than where we’ve been.
So that’s why we made the acquisition.
We see other opportunities for acquisition not just in that market but in a number of the markets that we’ve targeted so we have a pretty good outlook and a pretty good pipeline for those kinds of acquisitions.
Is the pipeline pretty similar to what you’ve seen the last 12 or 18 months? Or kind of getting better or worse? I would say the pipeline itself is pretty similar.
And whether it comes to closure is another question but the pipeline is pretty similar is what we’ve seen.
And then just one quick question if I could on the input cost front.
Any update on what you’re seeing? I saw the low single digit guidance in the slide deck but I know your bucket’s a little bit different than some of the other CPG group and can be a little bit more volatile at times.
So any additional color on things maybe to watch out for this year that you’re seeing right now? The things that we see that are starting to move up are as you’ve probably seen corn and wheat and soybeans and dairy are starting to move up a bit.
So those impact us more on the industrial side of our business.
I wouldn’t say that we have any significant changes on the consumer side.
I’d like to thank you for your questions and for participating today.
McCormick’s 2014 fiscal year is off to a good start.
Our strategic imperatives around people growth and performance are driving sales delivering CCI cost savings which is our fuel for growth and generating higher profits and strong cash flow.
At McCormick we bring the joy of flavor to every day.
Our 125-year heritage of innovation collaboration and commitment to this business is at the foundation of our global leadership in flavor and has us well-positioned for the future.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan.
I’d also like to thank those on this morning’s call.
A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 855-859-2056.
The ID number is 22127582.
You can also listen to the replay on our website later today and if anyone has additional questions regarding today’s information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning’s conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!