Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
So can I just turn to the U.S.
consumer business there seems to be a bit of confusion about the pricing strategy there and what we’re seeing in the Nielsen data versus the price increase I think you mentioned this time around.
We’re seeing fairly sharp reductions in price per pound to the tune of about a mid single-digit rate some of that might be negative mix which I think you mentioned but we’re also just kind of curious about what is actually happening there not just in the quarter but as we look out to 2015 as you take that next price increase.
Are you worried about further share losses to some of those smaller brands and are you confident that the innovation that you’ve got in place is going to allow you to drive that mid single-digit top-line growth overall? Thank you.
Sure there is a couple of things going on there.
To first reiterate we’ve made no changes in list prices in our U.S.
business.
We increased prices at the end of 2013 and in 2014 we've made no changes in list prices.
So a couple of things were happening one is what we've seen is that more of our promotional spend in 2014 ended up in the second half of the year.
The second is there is a sizable controlled label which is an extreme value product which we've had in the market with one customer for a long period of time that was pretty heavily promoted in the second half of the year and it shows up as a McCormick brand and it is a brand that we own in the data and so that is driving some of it.
And then in another case we actually took the number of units in our recipe inspirations from six spices in the line to three and reduced the price of that offering so there is a good bit going on there.
We don't plan any price increases at this point in our U.S.
consumer business.
We're dealing with some commodity inflation with our cost reduction activities and as you saw being more aggressive on that but we expect to see more stable pricing in our U.S.
business.
Now we are taking pricing in our industrial businesses to help offset some of the commodity increases and in some of the other markets but in our U.S.
business our plan is to hold pricing more stable.
Can I just follow-up quickly on that control brand do you expect that intense promotional activity to continue as we go into 2015 and then I will pass it on? Thank you.
We don't expect it to continue at the level that it has in the second half of the year.
I wanted to dig in on the consumer volume side because I was looking at this quarter and I know there was a sort of a seasonal shift last year but the comparison even for the half as a whole got was relatively easy and the fourth quarter versus third quarter was easier.
So I guess my first question on that is did these sort of volume numbers particularly in the U.S.
consumer and Asia-Pac consumer meet your expectations going into the quarter? And secondly I guess as we go into next year you have expressed confidence about sort of a comeback in that top-line like what gives you that confidence within consumer what regions make you feel like presumably that’s going to be -- I think that sales growth is mostly volume driven why there would be that sort of inflection point? Thank you.
A couple of things in the U.S.
business we did see a better momentum in the second half of the year than we had in the first half to the year and that's a combination of getting traction with some of our category management efforts as well as some of the new products kicking in which we're pleased to see.
We actually grew share in recipe mixes that's driving some of the momentum there.
And then the number of our markets around the world in France for instance we grew share both in spices and seasonings as well as in desserts and so we're pleased with the momentum we have there.
UK is a little bit of a tougher competitive market and in China even without the acquisition that acquisition far exceeded expectations but our consumer business in China has continued to grow at double-digit so we feel pretty good about that.
The key effort and the thing that we have to do in order to make this plan is really to get core growth in our U.S.
business and in spices and seasonings and that's where a lot of the effort is in this year both in terms of category management as well as innovation.
So I am interested just to follow-up on that you felt better versus your plan in the second half versus the first half and I know the headline numbers were better but there is a significant -- I mean the first half of '13 and even if we go back to first half of '12 was stronger at least in U.S.
consumer is a lot stronger but you are saying versus your plans second half was stronger than first? I didn't say versus our plan I said versus the actuals certainly we're -- we believe we have got a lot of work to do still in our U.S.
business and we're encouraged by what we saw in the second half but we still believe we've got a lot of work to do.
A kind of a follow-up to Jon's question your guidance for 4 to 6 sales growth and organically the Company hasn't done better than 2 for the last two years.
So I guess you are right Alan I mean you need to get big market share gains in order to achieve this plan and it has to come in from the U.S.
Can you give us an update on how many of your customers have adopted this category management strategy that you have rolled out I think last quarter you said that you were targeting 60% of the ACV you thought you were half way there have you made any progress in that regard? And then also have there been any losses in that kind of metric have there been any customers who have moved further towards private label? I wouldn't say we've seen and actually what we've seen in the recent periods is that private label has actually declined a bit and the traction has come from some of the smaller brands but really small brands.
And I would say that we're continuing to tell that story I don’t have a number in terms of is it -- and we are now at 70% of ACV but what I would say is we’re continuing to gain traction with the story to get sharper price points on the shelf again that sharper price points not because we’ve taken reduction but because we’ve applied trade promotions more tactically and because we’re working with the customers to make sure we have the right mix of pricing on the shelf.
We’re continuing to see the category fragment there is lots of competition and we’re continuing to work to build our share of shelf along with our share of voice in advertising.
The only thing I would add Rob this is Gordon is in the discussion we talked about healthy category growth rate.
So it's not even necessarily true that we’ve got to have large market share gains we just need to continue to grow with category growth rates and we hit those numbers.
But the category you said is growing about 1% right now in the U.S.? No about 3%.
We said overall the category on a global basis is going to be growing in mid single-digits.
Okay so 3% in the U.S.
is the expectation? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then one follow-up just I think you mentioned a value brand that you control and is showing up in the Nielsen data as being very heavily promoted but what caused that heavy promotion on that brand was it the retailers doing it and you do have any control in the future over whether they continue to do that? It can’t be helpful to your core McCormick business when that happens.
Yes it was a specific retailer strategy that implemented and we’re working with them on making sure that we’re maximizing the category.
Hi just had a question for if I could in relation to the cost inflation coming through this year you gave some of the inputs where that’s going through pepper being about half of the increase that would cut across both consumer and industrial.
I think you said you're not going to take some pricing in U.S.
consumer so should we expect the balance of 2% pricing across the remaining divisions I mean Europe consumer Asia consumer as well as the industrial business or is there one division that’s more heavily influenced by that? Now it's going to be pretty balance between the industrial and consumer segments and given the fact that we’re not taking it in the U.S.
you’ll see pricing elsewhere in the world and the other markets on the consumer side.
Okay.
And then just to go back to the question Alexia asked about the promotional spending being higher at least in the data that we see.
I know there were some timing elements both to prior year and to this year should we expect any incremental promotional spending to continue? And I guess if I could ask the related question if you look at your spending this quarter on marketing being up around $5 million I think you’ve been talking something closer to 11 million or more was there any shift more so to promotion versus to advertising and would that continue in '15? No we expect - we’re going to continue part of our promotion is volume driven and so that of what you saw a little bit was a reduction in volume versus expectation so we didn’t get the volume hit so we didn’t take the spending.
But we’re not expecting a change in how we balance it.
In fact what we’re trying to do is drive more efficient promotion spending than we have.
And I’d just point out for fiscal year '14 the advertising component of the increase was the vast majority.
We were up 15 million year-on-year on an advertising basis.
So a lot of the activity is still continuing to drive innovation in the brand equity.
It was less than expected in the fourth quarter though is that correct is there any change to your views on advertising in the quarter? No we pretty much around the advertising campaigns that we’re planned we execute it against those to Alan’s point some of the more volume-related promotional events fell out of the quarter but the advertising programs were left intact.
Hey thanks for the question and Lawrence congratulations on a promotion.
Thank you.
So Alan you talked about in the U.S.
getting prices on shelf more in line with where you think is ideal for the category.
And I think you’ve touched on this a little bit but are we where we need to be or do you think customers still need to make some adjustments either up or down to kind of get an ideal revenue and profit dollar point at this point? No there is still work to do on the shelf and some of it is driven by the fact that there is an awful lot of value priced product.
That isn’t necessarily doing anything for the category it’s creating more fragmentation and so what we want to do is make sure that we are telling the story that we’re giving consumers what they are looking for and that we’re getting our absolute price points to the level that makes the most sense.
Okay.
And then following up is the M&amp;A environment is it a bit more challenging than usual for you I maybe wrong but I can’t recall McCormick really talking this aggressively about share buybacks in the past.
And I think usually your target is 1% to 2% this year it’s 2 you're being vocal about returning cash to shareholders.
So I guess I am just wondering are you maybe suggesting that alternate uses of cash are not as attractive at the moment or am I I guess just reading too much into that? No I would say that we do have a very active pipeline and we're working hard as we always do on acquisitions just like we always have when we don't have an acquisition eminent we will continue our share buyback and if it's a small acquisition we will continue it but if it's a larger one we may curtail it for a bit but we're not signaling anything at all with that we've got some very attractive acquisition candidates that we're continuing to work on.
I guess I want to follow-up on the inflation question.
Gordon you highlighted that material cost inflation was up I guess mid single-digit and I just assume you are talking about the pure raw spices and seasonings but it would seem that there is a lot of other things that are actually beneficial whether it's just pure energy or derivatives such as like the bottles and the packaging.
So when you look at I guess overall inflation for fiscal '15 what's your expectation? Well just to remind the Group of 80% of our cost of goods sold is raw and packaging so it's an overwhelming factor as we -- relates to our overall cost structure.
So the mid single-digit really is the driver on our margin.
There will be obviously some benefit in freight rates we classify that more down in SG&amp;A but it's not going to material enough to really offset what approximates $100 million increase in our raw material cost.
So I wouldn't -- and that's why we're leaning heavily into our old CCI programs to try and help offset all this.
Okay.
And then I guess the -- it sounds like at this point Alan that you are very reluctant you are willing to take some pricing on the back of that inflation whether it's a consumer outside the U.S.
but there is some industrial pass-through I guess at what point in the U.S.
do you feel that you need to we don't really have a lot of visibility into some of those kind of more esoteric crops I mean is pepper -- I guess is the bias on pepper and vanilla and some of these other things up and that we have to worry about you taking pricing I just don’t have a lot of visibility into those crops? Well it's more around what drives the elasticity of our volumes.
And so typically what we've been able to do is pass-through the commodity inflation but because we've seen such extreme volatility and especially with pepper that’s the one drives McCormick more than anything else over the last five years it's up by a factor of five.
And so we feel like we're getting to a price point where it's pretty stretched and so we're looking at other tools to try to offset that and it's largely behind our cost reduction at this point.
Now we don't think that we aren't going to be able to take pricing forever and ever but where we're at this point with the category and the competition is we feel like it's prudent that we're not taking pricing at this point.
Okay.
And then last quarter on the U.S.
retail strategy I think in the past you had alluded to some of the competition that had made gains they were finding space in other parts of the store such as like the produce aisle is part of your strategy and are you having success in kind of getting your items out of the or in addition to the center of the store but getting placement in other areas and is that one of the reasons why you think you can maintain or recover share in fiscal '15? We're getting products off this -- not just in the spice set but into other parts of the store where we have found competition and I will ask Lawrence to kind of weigh in a little bit on this.
Just a couple of questions the first question I guess is just Q4 I know in Q3 you gave down the operating profit income for the year but then you said you missed the original guidance for the year and that was partially because of just a mix shift and faster growing in some of your markets and the margin differential in both et cetera.
But then what was the real the miss in Q4 because it seems like in Q4 you grew consumer more quickly than industrial and within consumer you grew the Americas more quickly than what I would pursue to be your lower margin international business.
So then -- and you also seemed as if you also pulled back a bit relative to reach the expectations that we had on the marketing side.
So I am just trying to bridge the gap between expectation in Q3 for the year for operating profit growth and then what you actually reported? Yes as we said in the remarks we’re very pleased with the progress we made in the U.S.
consumer business but it was not up to the expectation we had in thinking when we gave you the guidance at the end of Q3.
And obviously that’s a big profit generator in Q4 and as a result that was one of the main factors impacting the results versus what we were guiding to.
And then the second question is just I know in your Q3 call and I may have missed it.
[Technical Difficulty] I just said on the Q3 call you had mentioned ACV or there was an acceptance rate of the new pricing program or the new strategic dynamics so to speak for the business and it seems like we’re only just in the Americas from the retailers.
And I guess the one question I just had was what is the push back from the ones that haven’t accepted it what’s the reluctance for not accepting the new program? Some of it’s just timing and our programs and our selling proposition is really different in the fourth quarter than it is the rest of the year because it's so promotionally driven and making sure that we have the holiday execution.
And so we’re back in with that whole category management discussion.
Now the push back hasn’t been aggressive because we’ve a pretty rational story to tell it's more as Lawrence said getting the category managers to understand where things are eroding in other departments not necessarily their cost centers.
And then just I mean it's a question I am not sure again if you mentioned on the call but was there a I guess two targets one on gross margin for fiscal '15 and then two was there a target for incremental marketing spend? Thank you.
We did not provide any gross margin targets and the incremental marketing target is at least a 5% increase year-over-year.
My question is on cost savings obviously on the CCI side you’ve done a great job and you have aggressive targets for '15 and I know in the past you’ve done some studies on your SG&amp;A as well because optically it looks pretty high relative to the average for the industry.
Can you talk about just the cost savings opportunity that lies perhaps potentially in the SG&amp;A line because given the current environment obviously there is a lot of focus on cost savings in general? Thank you.
Sure we recognize the opportunity that lies there I mean some of the drivers on the line in general is our global scale which adds complexity and we have joint ventures below the line which require management resources.
So those are factors we do want to remind people that require management resources and don’t end up in a percentage in net sales because it's all below the line.
But having said that we continue to look at how we can become more efficient as well as effective through a faster streamlining of our decisions and more consolidation of back offices.
In the more recent activities you are well aware of what we talked about for our European organization last year that is part of the guidance that we have this year as we continue into a shared service environment there as well as more recently announced North American actions that align more effectively under the structure that we have now which again results in efficiencies in our decision making there.
So it's a balancing act to make sure that we are being aggressive on that line but at the same time we are growing categories and we want to make sure we’re putting proper resources behind the growth that these categories enjoy.
That’s helpful just one follow-up.
Can you give us an update on India and where you stand with that acquisition and the plans that you had in place? Yes we’re building our supply chain capabilities there we’ve introduced some of the value-added products and we’re seeing those getting traction in the marketplace.
Obviously we’d like to see progress faster but we’re doing the things that we laid out when we made the acquisition and feel like we can see a positive path forward… I am sorry actually are you there? I am there yes.
Sorry somehow our phone disconnected so I am not sure how much of my answer you got.
What I was saying you is we believe that India is a long-term investment and a long-term growth engine for McCormick.
We’d like to see progress faster but we've done the things that we laid out in the acquisition which is moving the more value-added products getting our supply chain and our supply base in good order to be able to grow the business and service the customers but we're not pleased with the progress and we believe that we can do better there.
I wanted to ask a little bit more I know this has been talked about quite a lot but in the United States you have seen a 70 basis point share loss in the spice category but more broadly going back over the last four years of our new AOC plus the Nielsen data it’s a 330 basis point decline in market share for McCormick.
The question is when I see share losses that large and ongoing share losses there is just a concern that fundamentally these price gaps really need to be put into a different place and that you should take a price decline.
Can you respond it out and how do you think about these share losses am I too concerned about this multi-year stretch of share losses? No we're concerned as well and that's why we're taking the actions that we are and we feel like we're doing a lot of the right kinds of things we're driving innovation we're talking to customers we're talking to consumers and so we take this very seriously.
We're in a growing category and through history we've always been the driver of growth in the category and we expect that we're going to do that.
But we're not happy with the performance that we've had the last couple of years and we're doing things differently.
Maybe just a final question is that on the long-term guidance the 9% to 11% so including the 2015 expectations that you laid out you will have three straight years of missing the long-term EPS of 9 to 11 compounded rate in these three year period it would be about 5.5% I think you said in your prepared script the five year historical number was 8%.
Why not reduce the long-term guidance do you give much thought of that is the long-term guidance just kind of a flag pole out there or how hardcore are you about that stuff? What we really do is focus on what we need to do in the current year and as you know it's been pretty volatile.
And as we think about where we're very long-term we believe that this business should generate that kind of growth.
We should be able to do the sales growth that we talk about with an acquisition or with a steady stream of acquisitions.
Our acquisition record over the last couple of years has not been as consistent so we've had -- the acquisitions we've made have been good but we haven't done one every year as our long-term guidance would suggest.
The second thing is we've had so much volatility over the last five years in cost.
As I said earlier pepper is up 500% basically in the last five years and so we've had to deal with a lot of volatility.
And then the other pieces are the ups and downs of things like pension expense and those sorts of things.
What we're really focused on is making sure that we're running the businesses the right way that we're driving the category and driving growth to be able to perform that way.
So we do discuss the long-term goals we lay out plans that we believe will hit it and then we adjust year-on-year based on what's actually happening in our both our cost structure and with our customers.
I will say the two changes that I think you are seeing for McCormick right now is we're being more aggressive on cost because we recognize we have to do that and secondly we're being aggressive in the marketplace with our customers.
And in terms of bringing them ideas and bringing them lots of programs to help drive growth in the business.
I think bringing comfort to the shares situation is critical for your investor base it's very hard to see these kinds of share losses and then to know how the Company can achieve those long-term guidance targets and I just say that for maybe future calls.
I will leave it there and thank you for the comments.
Just to two quick questions on some of your smaller brands that you have talked that have been gaining share just so I am clear on it.
I guess first is what is the selling point or proposition do you think that they are using with retail customers to actually get this space on the shelf.
And then I guess more importantly once they have gotten some of that placement and we see that in the shares what’s the velocity of those items off of the shelf are they actually delivering anything for these retail customers at the end of the day or does that make your case ultimately easier once you have the data to be able to go back to your customers with? Yes the selling proposition is a couple one is either an ethnic brand that will appeal to a different customer.
I was in stores this weekend and walking through and I saw a Caribbean brand I saw more of a Southern ethnic style brand I saw Hispanic brands I saw things that had meat rings that are for the ring goes to the meat department as opposed to the core category.
So there is a lot of those sorts of things that people are using as selling propositions.
Typically the velocity of those individual SKUs or even of those brands is much lower than what we see at McCormick and so that’s a big part of our category story is to the trade you don’t necessarily need all this fragmentation.
There is certainly some there is a value consumer there is a premium consumer and then there is a consumer who is looking for things in the middle we serve all those needs and so what we’re trying to help them with is understanding the impact on their inventory levels and the velocity of what is actually happening in the category.
So we are telling that store but there is a lot of different stories as to why brands are finding their way into the market.
I guess just I guess from your perspective you believe you have enough of those options if you will for consumers and the retailers in terms of what they are looking for so it's some much easier as we all know to create brands now and create disruptive sorts of brands whether it's social media and all that and I guess wanted your perspective on do you feel you have enough of those sorts of options out there or do there need to some additional activity from you even if it's outside to sort of standard McCormick brand proposition? And we are doing some of that kind of thing as for instance with our bag brand seven of the 10 that grew share in the last period were bagged spices.
We have a bag brand with our Mojave Foods line and so we are using some of those as well as these controlled value players to as fighter brands to some of those.
So there is a strategy there but it’s not unique to the spice and seasonings category we’re seeing it across food.
Since there is no further questions I want to thank everybody who participated in today’s call.
Consumer demand for flavor remains strong our geographic presence and our product portfolio are aligned with the move towards healthy eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisines and bold tastes.
We’re investing in marketing and innovation to drive sales and in a competitive environment working with our customers to win at retail.
We’re stepping up our cost reduction activities and plan to use these savings to offset higher costs and invest in our brands.
In 2015 we expect to deliver solid sales growth higher profits and strong cash flow.
We look forward to reporting to you on our continued progress in the upcoming quarters.
Thanks Alan and I’d also like to thank those who joined us this morning.
Through February 11th a replay of today’s call can be accessed by dialing 877-660-6853.
The conference ID number is 13596246 and you can also listen to a replay on our Web site later today.
If anyone has additional questions regarding today’s information you can reach us at 410-771-7244.
That concludes this morning’s conference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!