Thank you.
We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Please proceed with your questions.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Andrew.
Good morning Andrew.
Hi two quick questions for me.
I guess the first with McCormick now looking for the full year EPS towards the lower end of the range and consensus being more in the middle of the range currently I guess it seems like with the incremental CCI savings you now expect you probably could have made up that profit shortfall had you decided to let those savings flow through to the bottom line rather than reinvesting a good chuck of it in the fourth quarter as you've talked about.
So maybe can you talk a little bit about the trade-off and the decision to up marketing in the fourth quarter and kind of more specifically what that’s going behind? Yes we were investing both in the U.S.
and in Europe behind our brands and we think that’s really important and critical as we’re trying to build share and support the new products that we’ve introduced.
So we think that is a good investment.
We’re really happy with our CCI program that we have the ability to provide that fuel as opposed to trying to offset some of these headwinds.
Okay.
If we -- Lawrence if we think about some of the progress that you’re continuing to make in the core consumer business in the U.S.
I know that you’re just starting to have more of those let’s call it robust discussions with customers given the capabilities that you’ve got now.
But one of the key efforts for last couple of quarters was sort of getting those price points in the right place on some of those top key items right in the urban spice space.
Is there any way you can share a couple of metrics with us on maybe where you are in that progress? Do you now have those at the right price points? Are you most of the way there and is that's what's driving the improved sequential consumption trends we’re seeing? Okay.
Thanks Andrew.
I think that that's a good part of it.
We’re really pleased with the progress that we’ve made on our management of price points with our customers.
When I talk about being at the beginning of a process here in our prepared remarks there is really in reference to the use of the new tools that we added in the middle of third quarter.
So we have time set up with most of our leading customers in the U.S.
to work through analytics with them around both pricing and on assortment and the two really need to work both together.
We've had a new modeling tool for both pricing and assortment.
They work together in tandem and we expect to get through about 50% of the ACV of our customers by the end of the fourth quarter of this year so that’s pretty good progress.
In terms of implementing what we’ve done so far on the price points on those key items we’ve made a lot of progress and that is part of the reason or the strength of our business.
But we don’t want to underestimate the value of the other things that we’re doing in terms of innovation and in A&amp;P to drive our core business.
So one of the other things that you’re starting to see now is innovation in the core part of our business with things like the herb grinders and you’re seeing renovation of our core business to kind of take away the reason for being for some of these smaller brands that have made some inroads against us.
So the extension of -- the expansion of organic within our gourmet line the non-GMO labeling on our core spice line these are all important consumer elements that go beyond price to get at the consumer and build the strength of our core brands.
We’re very committed to getting not only growing that core business but to winning market share in that business as well.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone a couple of quick questions.
As a follow-up to Andrew's are you able to actually quantify what the organic ex-acquisition sales growth was for the U.S.
consumer business? And then as a follow-up on a different topic you mentioned acquisitions a couple of times and obviously you’ve moved into the wet sauce business with the Stubb's acquisition in a very small way.
Could you give us an idea geographically and by category what your priorities are there thank you? Sure.
Let me take the acquisition real quickly and then I’ll ask Lawrence to talk more about the U.S.
consumer business but where we’re targeting with our acquisitions is again in adjacent categories where flavor can matter and you've seen with the Stubb's acquisition an example of that we’re moving into some areas that are more closely related to what we do but not directly.
So we have room to grow there and Stubb's specifically puts us into more of a natural and interesting category.
Our Stubb's business doesn’t have high fructose corn syrup.
It’s gluten free and so it differentiates itself and is premium in the category.
So we feel good about that.
The other acquisitions that we’re making we’re continuing to target are those leading companies in markets where we have either a small presence or no presence and so that’s what we did with D&amp;A this year.
And we’re also targeting more flavor acquisitions for our Industrial business.
So while we’ve done very few over the last 10 years we see that as an opportunity to really build and grow our business and I’ll let Lawrence answer the question I’m sorry Gordon answer the question on… So Alexia in terms of how much -- the only acquisition in the Americas that would have contributed to any consumer growth would have been Stubb's and since it was just the last couple of weeks of the quarter it’s very small it was 0.2 on the total Americas and the U.S.
drives that number as you can imagine given the size of our market.
So the 2.4% volume mix in Americas would also be directionally correct for the U.S.
since it’s a big part of it.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I’ll pass it on.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about the sales guidance the 4% to 6%? Can you break it down price and volume? And then most importantly just talk to me about what's driving the upside here? Because obviously when the foreign exchange gets more negative we would assume that you would try to raise price in response to it.
So I'm really just trying to get a sense as to what's driving the upside on that organic? Or it's not organic it's the constant currency sales growth.
Hi David it’s Gordon.
So pricing -- our outlook on that hasn’t really changed for the year.
So of the 4% to 6% we’ve said all along it’s going to be in the 1% to 2% range especially as we pass through the commodity cost increases on the industrial side and those adjustment mechanisms have been reading through.
When we first started to guide towards the upper end of that range part of that was based on the acquisitions that we were completing during the year.
So that helps us contribute about another 1% to the growth of that number.
But I would also point to the fact that also the confidence is in the underlying base business where we've seen strong organic growth pretty broad-based candidly.
So that’s also allowing us to feel good about the upper end of that range.
And if I could just follow on on this on the consumer side: so profits are down here.
You've got the issue on the Indian business.
But what was the description in terms of -- if its profits are down something like $8 million $7.5 million year-on-year what's the driver here? Again just many of your comments are extremely positive but then when you just look at the OI line on consumer it's down.
So what's the simple one-liner here beyond the Indian business problem in terms of why OI goes down in consumer? Well FX obviously is a large headwind on a reported basis because that obviously has been a factor on both the reported top line and bottom line.
So that obviously is one we continue to wrestle with and as you heard in my comments it's gotten slightly worse on the operating income line as we've upped the negative impact on the total company to 4% versus the prior three.
So FX Kohinoor and part of this also in terms of profit realization has been the commodity cost environment where commodity cost have been hitting us hard earlier in the year as we've indicated the CCI program was going to help offset that as we progressed through the year.
So we are seeing the sequential improvement in the gross profit margin with the expectation that fourth quarter we see a rebound in both gross profit and operating income.
So part of it is also the timing of material cost increases and how those are being offset by the CCI program itself.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll pass it along.
Thank you.
I had two questions.
How big is India today in terms of sales and profit? I think when you bought it it was about $85 million in sales.
Just it might help us model for next year.
And then secondly for Lawrence the pricing trends for the company are a little below what we had expected.
We were thinking pricing would be up about 2% this year especially considering the higher commodity costs.
You said you'd be 50% done by fourth quarter with all the category management efforts; but are you tracking a little behind where you thought you would be at this point in terms of pricing? And maybe it's also a question for Gordon is the pricing for the company a little behind given the commodity cost environment? In terms of the size of the business it’s about a $50 million business and while we don’t disclose specific profitability I’d say it’s not in a strong profit position now clearly by some of the actions we're taking.
So it’s not a strong profit generator and has teetered on loss positions in the current year.
So it’s been in a loss position this year and that’s part of the reason for us taking the actions that we did.
I don't know if Lawrence … I’ll take the second question.
Rob on the category management effort I want to separate that from the idea of price increase.
We're working to manage to get our key items to the critical price points within our existing spend in promotion by managing the use of promotional funds and directing them towards the most productive purpose.
In our U.S.
business we've not taken a price increase in 2014 or 2015.
So what is reading through maybe in the Nielsen as movement in price is more the way Nielsen reports units and the amount of weight per package.
But there hasn’t been any kind of pricing action in the U.S.
either last year or this year and our promotional spending is pretty much in line with what it has been historically.
All of that category management work has redirected existing promotional fronts.
And Gordon is the pricing trends for the company overall in line with expectations for the year? Yes.
I’d say yes and also in terms of the gross margin other than the events surrounding Kohinoor we've talked about the sequential improvement in the timing and it is lining up with the expectations that we had as we've talked to you throughout the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Good morning.
Alan I wanted to push back a little bit on an answer you gave earlier in the Q&amp;A here on elevated brand marketing expense.
You talked about pursuing share looking to support new innovation.
Presumably that would have been planned out ahead of time I am guessing.
And so I wanted to drill in a little bit further and get a sense of whether Q3 was running a little bit more than expected and you're upping Q4 whether that might be macro-related in the U.S.
and Europe expectations on a macro maybe due to your own performance thus far or maybe its additive to your performance.
Maybe your performance has been good thus far and you really want to push hard against some of your competitors.
I was just looking for a bit little more clarity there if you don't mind.
Yes.
We're seeing good topline performances as we've talked about but we're also investing behind a purity campaign which is fundamentally that fresh tastes better and our pure tastes better and so we believe that’s the message that's resonating with consumers and we want to make sure that we have enough engine in the tank for what is our most important quarter of the year.
This is where a lot of our purchases come and so this is the time to invest and while we did have good plans going in we've see the opportunity to invest a little more.
Thank you; I appreciate that.
And then Gordon a question for you just on CCI.
You can correct me if I'm wrong excuse me but I believe CCI got off to a slower start this year; and I am curious if you have any sense on A how efficiencies and cost savings can pace as we move into fiscal 2016.
So that's the first part of the question.
And then secondly I'm also curious what the bottom line drop looks like relative to other years on a percentage basis? And the reason I ask that is just given your organic announcement on gourmet; I am curious if there's added cost to tracing and tracking your capabilities there and what that means for potential cost saves falling to the bottom line.
So a two-part question there if that makes sense.
I am going to ask Mike Smith to take the CCI question.
Good morning.
I would also like to echo Alan's thanks to the McCormick employees for really helping us provide more fuel for growth this year.
It's their efforts that we've been able to do that and you're right we did say earlier in the year that CCI was going to build as we address the commodity increases we saw come into 2015 a lot of our programs are really hitting now and into the fourth quarter.
We did the North American effectiveness initiative which as you remember we've added more resources at the leadership position and elsewhere to drive more CCI programs and we're seeing success there and we're also seeing additional -- I think the units are working together more collaboration across functions and really driving more savings and it's setting us up well for next year as you alluded to.
We're very comfortable with the $95 million in total for CCI and the special projects at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Comment on the organic McCormick is already the number one brand of organic herbs and spices in the grocery store and so with the action that we're taking on our gourmet line to make it 90% organic by this time next year it just builds on a capability that we've already got.
So this is not going to add to our fixed cost structure in any meaningful way that we've already got a great deal of capability around organic.
But raw material themselves are undeniably more expensive than regular spices and that’s reflected in the premium price that organic products command in the market place.
It's not just a scarcity issue it costs more money to produce organic ingredients and products and the same is true for us.
This is why we're starting really what the gourmet end of our line because the gourmet products can support a premium price.
Okay.
Very clear.
And Alan if I can just sneak in one yes or no question for you you talked about potential M&amp;A and you named industrial with flavors.
We understand that there might be a global natural colors portfolio for sale and I am just curious if natural colors are an area that you might want to get into.
We look for areas more where flavor can matter and it’s hard to do a yes or no question because in almost every deal we look at there is some things we like and some things we don’t.
And so rather than say yes or no to that particular opportunity I would say we are looking to expand our industrial portfolio to better serve our customers and it's really geared around where flavor matters Thanks guys.
Sure Good morning; thanks very much.
Good morning Jonathan.
I wanted to -- a little bit of a follow-up on a question Rob asked about pricing; but maybe bigger picture about the earnings guidance maybe if it tells us something.
When you go back to -- when I look at the -- below your 9% to 11% earnings growth that we've seen for the past few years couple of years anyway currency has clearly played a huge role in that.
Then I would go back to digging through -- you had about three or four quarters back in '08 '09 where currency just crushed you at like twice the magnitude.
And the difference it seems to me is that -- I know you had some more acquisition tailwind back then but you priced a lot more aggressively.
And so it leads me -- I guess two questions.
First would be I guess what's different this time? It seems like especially in overseas markets that are affected by currency it seems like you're a little bit more shy to price to that currency -- and cost obviously as I know a lot of these costs wind up being denominated in something like dollars if not explicitly dollars.
And I guess secondly when you look at that 9% to 11% earnings algorithm it seems like it's the right thing to do for your business to balance volume and pricing like that in the face of currency headwinds.
Do you think that maybe 9% to 11% earnings wise is that a signal that maybe that's too much as far as what the core business should be able to sustain prudently? Those are my questions.
Thanks.
Thanks I will answer the pricing question and we can kind of get into the long term discussion but specifically to pricing what we saw in 2009 '10 and '11 and '12 was extreme commodity inflation and so we're trying to respond to that.
We've had some of that in this year and we recognize that what we're really focused on is getting our price thresholds right in the marketplace and that’s not unique to the U.S.
it’s around the world.
And so we've taken a pause a bit on pricing.
We've taken some pricing to offset currency in some of our markets but our focus has been more on getting the right price thresholds and making sure that we're not giving consumers or customers a reason to go somewhere else.
So that’s really what we've seen more this year.
Around the overall EPS guidance of 9% to 11% we still feel pretty confident that over time that that is an achievable target.
Obviously year to year we have to make adjustments based on what's happening.
This year we had the particular headwinds around pension costs and around currency.
While we offset some commodity inflation but we still feel over time that that's the right targets.
Remember that includes some contribution from acquisitions in the years and this year while we made a couple acquisitions they have a minimum impact on the earnings for the year but we'll see those flow through next year.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Thanks Jonathan.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
A couple of questions; hopefully we can kick through them quickly.
Did you say whether in the U.S.
you lost share in consumer or did you maintain it and I think Lawrence you may have said our goal is to maintain share and I always thought it was to increase the share albeit even within a growing category.
Maybe you could just clarify a couple of those things.
Sorry Eric in our two core categories in herbs and spices we did have a share decline in this quarter.
It was less than a share point.
We continue to improve in this area and although the prepared remarks did say we want to get to parity growth with the category that’s a mile post along the way and a journey.
It’s hard to talk to -- the real conversation we want to have with retailers ultimately is about driving category growth and driving consumers to the segment and to section of the store and it’s hard to have that conversation until our growth rate catches up with that of the category.
So yes we want to get to parity growth with the category but certainly that’s not where we want to stop.
On recipe mixes it’s a different story.
That’s where we started out but we've really turned the tide there pretty convincingly and we did have a share gain on receipt mixes our second core category during the quarter and I think in our remarks we said we had 23 consecutive months now of share gains in that category.
Okay.
And then on the -- just to switch up again on the industrial it seems as if some of the U.S.
QSRs for example are doing a bit better and I think you noted some weakness there.
Is that a function of menus and product introductions or something? Maybe just touch a little bit on that and then I have then the last question.
Yes it's more a function of what we sell -- what the products we sell to them go in and where their growth is coming from.
So for instance one of our customers launched all day breakfast.
We've very little bit that goes in there for that customer.
So even if they're doing a little better it doesn’t impact us.
We tend to be in the U.S.
on the core menu items and outside the U.S.
more on the product innovation and limited time offers which is why we're seeing a little bit of a disparity in the results.
Okay.
And then just kind of like the CCI figure it sounds like -- remind me Gordon that's a -- like I know you look at it very conservatively versus other companies in their quotes and so the $95 million is obviously for this fiscal year.
But does the fact that it's ramping up I think there was a previous question in this regard does the fact that it's ramping up as the year progresses suggest that fiscal '16 can also be quite a good year? And then related to that Alan maybe I'm crazy but did you mention earlier in the year about a certain level of SG&amp;A savings into fiscal '16 and how does CCI figure into that if my memory is correct? Yes your memory is correct.
We talked about leveraging SG&amp;A and that’s a lot of what we except to get from and are getting from our restructurings.
I'll let Gordon specifically about that.
So there is wraparound effect of CCI from the current year programs into next year and you alluded to the SG&amp;A which indeed we talked about a 100 basis point improvement.
So some of that started this year but there will be the full year benefit going into next year because with some of the actions that we took and announced this year only had a partial year impact.
So you certainly have that wraparound benefit.
And then there are the programs within the year that kind of go into the base and then we start all over again next year and there is a new hill to climb and our teams every year find a way and to Mike's earlier comments they find a way to get to savings targets that we need.
So we're still developing what those programs are for next year but certainly there is going to be wraparound from the actions we've taken this year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I'll pass it on.
Thanks.
I want to thank everybody for your questions and for participating in the call today.
Consumer demand for flavor is rising and driving demand for our products.
Our geographic presence and product portfolio are expanding and align with the move towards healthier eating fresh ingredients ethnic cuisine and bold taste.
In 2015 we're achieving strong sale growth and significant cost savings.
We look forward to reporting to you on our continued progress as we wrap up 2015 and continue to build momentum for the future.
Thank you Alan and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
If you have additional questions regarding today's information please give us a call at 410-771-7244.
This concludes this morning's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!