Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Just quick question on the Marlboro architecture you talked about making further investments.
Can you just kind of contextualize those investments is it more point of sale is it more support behind some of the SKUs that you have been launching that's the first question.
The second question is the Marlboro share incentive program ended in the June quarter so just curious if that has created some kind of inventory bloat at retail as lots of retailers were probably aiming to make some of their targets any thoughts on that would be very helpful? Look the way to think of Marlboro architecture is obviously it’s the way that we are going to continue to grow Marlboro over time as it has grown in the past.
And that allows us now across these four brand families to have a variety of initiatives product programmatic retail executions and you see some of that playing out obviously in the second quarter.
The sales force in April as we referenced went out and reset at retail so that when the consumer comes to point-of-sale the four brand families are reinforced for the consumer there and it makes it easier actually from an SKU point of view to see them.
You saw Marlboro EIGHTY-THREES Box being rolled out to bring news to the Red franchise.
We have promotional plans in place to generate trial from adult competitive smokers on Marlboro Black.
So those are but some examples Nik the way I think that we think about putting the architecture together in a way that it comes alive for the Marlboro consumer and it allows it to continue to grow as it would like.
With respect to the Marlboro share incentives as you know those are retail trade programs that evolve over time.
There is a share growth component there.
I don't think that we have noticed anything unusual at inventory as a result of the program.
My first question has to do with inventory levels at wholesale.
You mentioned destocking in the back-half of June and into July.
Is that largely done? Are inventories kind of back to normal levels or should we expect more destocking through the quarter? Well I think Howard made reference to this in his remarks.
Just to maybe start one level up from that.
For PM USA it’s true of course that there are changes in inventory levels quarter-to-quarter or intra-quarter even but for PM USA that actually tends to kind of wash itself out over the course of the year.
I think that what Howard pointed out in his remarks is the trade inventory increased in the second quarter of ‘12 compared to the second quarter of ‘11 which did benefit PM USA’s volume performance a bit.
Then you had a build in second quarter and then those inventories were reduced after PM USA’s announcement of its price increase on June 18.
We saw some of that reduction continue a bit into July.
I think that’s a fair description of the situation at wholesale right now.
In terms of the consumer I know its early days since the pricing been pass through but I think there’s increasing concern about the health of the U.S.
consumer.
Have you seen anything in the trade in terms of a response to the price increases a little bit more trade down because I was actually surprised to see over the last two quarters discount losing about 100 basis points a share.
No we haven’t seen that.
Of course the price increase just went on June 18 and then we price protected in our MLP stores through June 30 but no we haven’t observed that.
And my last question has to do with Skoal I recognize that the year-over-year compares are skewed a little bit because of the launch of X-TRA and the SKU discounting but can you give us a sense of how the underlying business is doing? Sure remember the strategy is to grow Copenhagen and Skoal together.
So if you look at the numbers really since the acquisition and over time USSTC has done a great job with that.
Skoal has a tough challenge doesn’t it because it has to compete not only with other competitive brands but also with Copenhagen and Copenhagen has really been growing.
Copenhagen wants to grow a lot.
They have got some of the product offerings that it needed to compete more effectively.
And so the combined share growth is spot on target for our strategy and so we are pleased with that.
We have said I think previously Vivien that those brands will move at different speeds.
One will move faster at one time than another.
So as long as the combined retail share growth goes that’s our strategy because we want to grow income by growing volume in this growing category.
But there is work to do on Skoal.
We have got it's positioning I think better.
And now we are really seeing if we can get Skoal’s growth accelerated but together as long as they grow we are pretty okay with that.
It looks to me that the net price mix for PM USA this quarter was maybe 1% plus or minus.
Do you agree with the characterization that business is going through a period of time where it's putting a greater relative emphasis on market share growth? No.
I think that the strategy remains constant.
The strategy for PM USA is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro and I think that's exactly what you see playing out.
Here is what I’d say about understanding kind of the pricing environment.
First of all smokeable adjusted operating company income grew and its margin grew so it’s not as if it’s gone the wrong direction.
One can argue about the relative growth but it continues to grow and its margin grew.
I think the other thing to point out is pricing obviously as you well know occurs in a context in the economic context in which that business currently competes is we are in the middle of a really anemic recovery from the greatest recession in decades and consumers are under pressure and pricing for most consumer packaged goods in this category is no exception have been more restrained than in previous periods of economic health.
Then the final thing I guess I might say just on PM USA is it’s time of investment in Marlboro and the reason we do that is Marlboro is the long-term engine of PM USA’s premium growth and the way it grows its margin and the way it contributes to income.
So I think if you put all those factors together and remembering pricing is obviously important in the cigarettes segment everybody recognizes that but it’s not the only way for PM USA to contribute to income growth.
It can moderate its promotional plans.
It can reduce its cost structure.
It can become more efficient about the way it delivers products to the marketplace and they have been very attentive to all of that.
Then of course at the Altria level we have other income contributors.
We got a growing Smokeless business and we got a great wine business and so forth.
So that’s kind of how we think about it David which is putting all of those factors together.
You point out that pricing has slowed a bit on that one axis but really overall I think we are pretty okay with how we are doing on income.
Secondly Marty how much of an impact do you think this growth of roll your own volumes what was going on with retail with the small manufacturing company? How much of an impact do you think looking backwards that may have had on total cigarette category volumes and how much of a benefit do you think from this legislation you may see going forward from that? I think that it's hard to measure is the honest answer.
You have a secular decline rate that's made up of a number of factors including people smoking fewer cigarettes per day or switching to smokeless products.
Actually I think in that group are people who have gravitated to these kinds of products whether it's roll your own or pipe your own and so it's a bit hard to measure.
Obviously for PM USA’s business which focuses on premium I don’t think there is I believe that it's going be a significant contributing factor.
Some folks who are using those machines now will gravitate to other low cost forms of using tobacco some of it maybe cigarettes but some of it maybe something else.
So we will see it's a good development of course that everybody who is manufacturing cigarette is playing by the same rules.
I just don’t think at this moment we see it having a significant impact on volume.
This is Margot Schacter in for Thilo.
I just had a kind of quick question of those David’s price slowing question can we expect price to accelerate anytime soon? Well I guess I would just refer you back to PM USA strategy which is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro.
And we will just have to see how that plays out over time.
I guess sort of following on kind of the Marlboro share and pricing dynamics.
Marty just maybe you can give us some perspective on how you get comfort around the fact that some of these price-driven investments or the investments that you are making behind Marlboro’s building brand equity particularly among kind of the legal age to under 30 smoking group and that is not coming solely because of really the price investments that you are making.
There’s a number of metrics we follow around Marlboro of course but when you put them all together I think we feel quite confident that Marlboro’s health is good and that the investments we are making are wise.
It has a great brand equity.
It has high share.
It commands premium pricing.
Its price gaps have been stable throughout this terrible economic period.
In fact if you look back from the period 2007 to 2011 it both grew share and improved its margin.
And we know listen this is how Marlboro has grown right.
If you go back to Marlboro in 1954 with Red or when Menthol was launched in 60s or Gold in 70s we know that Marlboro has that kind of equity.
It’s that kind of a big brand.
And when you invest in it and it's got all these benefits we know that consumers will choose Marlboro.
So we have a lot of experience about both investing in and measuring the power of those investments in Marlboro.
We have every reason to think that’s the case today.
Okay.
And then Marty or Howard.
Just in terms of your guidance so just the commentary that the second half sort of moderates from the first half just wondering is it just really more a comparison issue are there any other factors that we should consider just in terms of a bit of a slowdown you’re expecting for the back half? And then in terms of taking the low-end of the guidance up today I know you've had strong performance in the first half from the equity income from SABMiller and then the PMCC.
So I'm just wondering how much of that is those factors as opposed to the tobacco business? Well I think that you pointed out that the comparison is probably the principal reason for that.
Listen the businesses are performing extremely well.
We're very pleased.
The execution of our plans is going fine but as we pointed out in the release capital of course adjusted OCI was up 56% for the quarter and 96% for the half.
As you know Judy those are transactional kinds of contributions from the leasing business.
But that's likely to moderate.
SAB which is doing a wonderful job was up nearly 25%.
And it does great but it hasn't performed historically at that level.
So we just think that when you do that and compare it to the first half it's likely to moderate a bit in the second.
I think that's the way to think about that.
Okay.
And then for the cigarette category the industry declined 3% in the first half.
Is that sort of reflective of the underlying consumption decline number and do you think that that's kind of a reasonable rate of decline to think about for the full year? Well as you know over time the decline rate has been a function of both secular decline rate and then some decline when prices go up with historical elasticity of about minus 0.3.
Actually that's been constant for some time.
We don't see much change in that in the current environment.
Just back on smokeless I'm wondering if you could give us a little more color there and I guess part of what I'm getting at is I know there is some trade issues and comparisons that skew some of it but it certainly looks like Skoal is accelerating and that some of the things that I think you are trying to do on that business look like they may be working.
Is there a corner you might be turning there? I think it’s probably as I described it just a couple of moments ago.
We focus on growing Copenhagen and Skoal together.
The brand is at different places in the marketplace.
They have different propositions.
Copenhagen has really had very very strong growth.
Skoal has to compete with that growth as well as compete against its competitors in the marketplace.
We’re making progress on Skoal I think.
And as long as the retail shares are growing together and we’re participating in the industry volume growth we’re able to grow our income in accordance with our plans.
And we have brand managers for Copenhagen and we have brand managers for Skoal and they are both trying to outcompete the other as well as the competition and we think that's the right way to attack that category.
That’s great.
And then on the cost side obviously you have the benefit of relatively benign input cost but has the drought this year put any pressure on leaf costs for this year or for next year? Yeah I think there is nothing really out of the ordinary on our cost this year.
We are tracking the drought’s impact on tobacco growers and there is -- I would say there is some modest impact today although they’ve recently gotten some rains in some key areas.
So while that’s on our watch list we don’t see any unusual impact at least today.
Russo &amp; Gardner</strong> I’m curious as to whether you found any steps to take in the context of these unusually low interest rates.
Either regarding your pension fund and its funding status or what other thing you might be able to do on your capital structure?  Sure.
I think we've been in low interest rate environment for some time now although as you accurately point out they've continued to head further south.
And I think we're pursuing the strategy we have over the last couple of years both in our pension plan and with our focus on seeking to reduce our effective interest rate.
And as you know we've done that by allowing some of our high interest debt to mature and then we've been going into the market periodically and getting quite advantageous rates.
And I think that the latest low rates just indicate that that opportunity is likely to be with us for some time.
I wanted to return to the smokeless tobacco segment and I was just curious if that business your business is more in a position to grow in line with the overall industry now.
Have you gotten Copenhagen and Skoal kind of to a position where that growth rate could be more in line with the industry? Well I think on an adjusted basis we think that it did grow in line with the industry.
Our strategy is to grow in line with the industry rate or a little bit better than that.
And you're correct to point out that if you take a bigger piece of the share that does help grow your volume there but we're I think well on the way to doing that and I think the numbers in the quarter reflect that.
That's great to see.
And just returning to Marlboro in the discussion if you back out the architecture and back out the innovation and the stepped up brand investment like the organic growth is that meeting your target? The underlying performance of that brand? Well as you know we don't back out that way but I guess I’ll just return to what I said before which is Marlboro's health is really very good.
It’s up three-tenths versus a year ago up two-tenths for the half.
We have our new Marlboro architecture that’s being put in place.
We have some new products that are in the marketplace.
I think we’re really pleased with how Marlboro is performing Ann.
I guess a couple of quick cash questions.
First I understand you paid down debt this quarter right? But is that why the share repurchase slowed down to I guess its slowest rate since you guys started buying back again maybe five quarters ago.
And then on CapEx can you just give a little color on why that outlook is changing down to $100 million? Sure.
Yeah I think you are pointing out that we had $600 million in debt that matured not in the second quarter but early in July and we did pay that off.
I will go into the details of how we calculate how much stock to repurchase.
But I would point out that three quarters into that five-quarter share purchase program we’ve purchased $700 million about worth of stock.
So we think we’re on a decent run rate and expect to finish that by the end of the year.
Did you have a second question? Yes on the CapEx.
Yeah on CapEx I would say that there is nothing unusual going on there.
We forecast our capital expenditures at the beginning of each year.
But then as we put together more detailed plans we scrutinize those capital expenditures more carefully and if there is an alternative way to achieve the result or if we can drive some incremental efficiencies we seek to do that.
And so as we pointed out we’ve now taken our capital expenditure forecast for the year from $150 million down to somewhere between $100 million and $125 million and we think that that's plenty in order to maintain the infrastructure we need in each of our businesses.
Great.
And then just one question on the guidance.
I know you guys said that EPS growth I guess would be easier in Q4 than Q3 and consensus is kind of there but not quite.
Can you just remind us of the puts and takes and why Q4 growth will be better than Q3? I think I would just rely on the remarks we made before Chris that it's going to moderate a bit in the back half compared to the first half for the reasons I articulated.
Marty I just wanted to go back to in terms of your satisfaction with the promotional investments on Marlboro particularly on special blends at Marlboro Black.
Could you talk a little bit about the decision to ease back on the promotions in May or June and how that speaks to the traction you're getting on those SKUs? Well look the promotional levels on these SKUs obviously are very carefully monitored over time and special blends of course have a different role to play than Black.
So it's worth just taking a second to make sure that's clear.
And special blends obviously their role is to offer SKUs at price points for some of the more promotion sensitive smokers that are in the franchise.
I think we've spoken before about 90% of Marlboro smokers choose the brand 100% of the time.
But that leaves you 10% or so liking other competitive franchises that are more promotion sensitive.
Special blend is a way to keep them in the franchise.
All the while we manage our margin at the Marlboro level and they’ve been very effective in that regard.
But of course you don't want to offer more promotion than is needed and so we’re able to moderate those or change those as circumstances warrant.
Marlboro Black on the other hand it's a new product offering and so what we're trying to do is to generate trial among adult competitive smokers.
And given the marketing restrictions in the industry you have to do that principally at point of sale and you do that with some promotional offers and that’s been the role of promotions for Marlboro Black.
And as soon as we get some trial there that meets our goals obviously it’s the same issue which is if you don’t have to spend more promotional money there than needed then you are able to back it off.
And I think that’s been what we’ve observed both with respect to special blend and Marlboro Black.
And then just second question.
If you could just talk broadly about the promotional and pricing environment in cigarettes in terms of what you are seeing from the premium competitors and the price gaps and the discount here.
You’ve got a little bit of reaction announced to the pricing you took in July just how that’s sticking.
And maybe if lower gas prices are helping at all in terms of trade down in the category? Well I think it’s fair to say that the industry’s been competitive.
It is competitive.
It is likely to be competitive.
And we don’t see a big significant change one way or the other in that and PM USA’s plans take that into account.
I want to ask you first did you disclose how much pricing helped revenue.
Is that something that you give? Yeah I think you can certainly calculate that from what is included in our press release.
Okay.
And secondly as you introduce new products can you describe whether you are hitting the wall so to speak with the FDA.
I gather that they think -- that the agency simply is not considering or at least not considering promptly request by the cigarette manufacturers for new and modified products.
Could you talk about that a bit and what impact that’s having on the company? Yeah.
There is a couple of things in your question maybe we should separate out just to be clear.
There was a major filing of so called substantial equivalents application some time ago which was the principal filing.
And what we've observed is that FDA is pretty methodically working through those.
There were a lot of them that were filed at the agency and it's worth remembering that the agency obviously is in its first kind of couple of three years of staffing up and putting processes and procedure in.
It's a pretty deliberate agency anyway and so they have some work to do in that regards.
So that's actually been I think pretty much what we expected which was they would work their way through that.
After that date of course they introduced regulated products into the marketplace.
You do have to file applications for substantial equivalents and the products can't be launched cannot be launched until approval.
I think most majors have applications that are pending there.
I think that's just more of the same.
They are trying to work through their structure and process about our approval.
I would distinguish that from the last part of your question which was modified risk products.
For example more conventional products.
There the agency is really just building out its science and policy base about how they are going to think about that.
And as you know they have conducted several hearings and if you're interested in what we have to say about that we have them on our website.
But I would distinguish that situation which is likely to take place over some period of time.
They have to get the science right before they are going to permit claims and that's what they are working through right now on that.
So on the first half of the question you're not kind of tapping your fingers and urging the FDA to get moving on that.
You seem to have some patience? While we planned for what was coming I think and so everyone would like their regulator to move promptly on matters.
But we have found actually FDA to be pretty okay about how it's going about its work.
And I'm sure that the speed will improve as they staff up over time.
Operator we don’t seem to have a question.
Thanks everyone for joining our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions we’ll be happy to help you at Investor Relations.
That concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!