Thank you very much for your questions.
Our next question is from the line of (inaudible) Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Just with regards to guidance and the movement between last quarter and this quarter’s numbers I’m still a little bit confused.
The last quarter you knew the timing of the equity raise that had highlighted the dispositions of assets with the leases expiring and I understand lower cap rates has a bit of an impact on a full-year basis but it seems like I’m still missing something.
Is there a much higher debt cost that you’re assuming and taking out the revolver for fixed rate debt than you previously assumed and if so can you quantify that? And is that plus the lower cap rate really the difference between your -- in addition to the timing also the difference between the full year run rate number at the end of the year the 1.06 to 1.10 to the previous 1.10 guidance? There are a number of small penny here two penny there specific differences.
Basically they all kind of even out so the real impact comes from the items you’ve mentioned.
The lower cap rate than we had anticipated the timing which I gave you a couple of examples of those.
When we had our first quarter call in late April we truly were expecting this announcement we made today to be made at literally any time and it got put on the shelf by the seller for a while.
And at the same time if you’ll recall our common stock was trading significantly higher than it is today along with the other healthcare REITs and the cost that we could issue bonds was probably 75 bps lower than it is today.
So those three components timing cap rate cost of capital drive the great majority of the difference and the difference really… Sorry.
With your reference to the cost of equity should we assume that you’re going to use equity there? Further equity this year to gear your balance sheet a little bit? Well again we could use debt all debt I think under the current acquisition plans or acquisition announcements and still be within the range that we gave earlier; the 45% or lower leverage the 5.5 times EBITDA and the dividend payout.
But as I also mentioned we’ll be opportunistic; we’ll keep an eye on the market.
We have a number of alternatives to permanently finance what’s in the immediate pipeline and what could be a little bit further down the road.
So we have no expressed plans as we sit here today.
Okay.
So the main difference if I’m hearing you right is bond cost 70 basis points higher the timing as it relates to the relative earnings downgrade versus prior expectations.
Well the cap rate.
And the cap rate sorry.
Okay great.
It’s not just bonds.
Just to clarify again three months ago we were trading at 17 plus and so obviously we are not any more.
So that has an effect on our cost of equity capital.
Okay.
And just one other question what are your latest thoughts with regards to international opportunities? What should we be thinking in terms of timing of the potential expansion and what should we be thinking in terms of valuations relative to what you guys are doing in the U.S.
from a cap rate perspective and what sort of geographies are the most appealing? Well it’s certainly been something we’ve looked at since the inception of our company 10 years ago and we explored a lot of different areas; we’ve been actively exploring it since the beginning.
We pretty much narrowed it down to the Western European countries to do one of our first acquisitions.
There are a number of opportunities that we are actively looking at right now.
They are all within the same range of the eight to 11 that we gave you just gave the caller just a few minutes ago.
From a timing standpoint it could be as early as this year.
It could roll over into 2014.
It’s just when the opportunities present itself at the right time.
Okay.
So your previous comment about equities seems to imply that if you were to want to do something in Europe you want to shore up your balance sheet ahead of any potential size of acquisition.
It’s not just Europe.
Obviously we don’t intend on not growing any beyond the acquisitions that we’ve announced here.
So as we continue to look at managing the company and our growth expectations we’ve got to take all of that into consideration.
Okay and one just follow up.
What size would make sense as an initial beachhead in a new market for you; just round numbers? Its hard to give you that number exactly right now but certainly its somewhere north of $100 million.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
When is the large portfolio expected to close? I think you said third quarter in the release but can you give us just a little more specific than that? I don’t know.
We really can’t.
Third quarter we are halfway through it already so...
Is it possible it slips to 4Q or are you pretty confident that it’s 3Q? Well sitting here today there’s no reason to think that it should slip but in the realm of anything is possible yes it’s possible but that’s certainly not our expectation.
Okay.
And did the quality of the operator and the quality of the portfolio cause you to change your underwriting on coverage differently on this acquisition versus others? The coverage is very strong.
Okay.
Inc.</strong> Yes good morning everyone.
First of all just congrats on the fairly large deal pipeline out there; that’s good to see.
Ed in the press release you do make some illusions to additional acquisitions beyond what you’ve announced so far and you’ve kind of given us some color about the $100 million to go to a new market.
But could you just kind of give us an overall sense of just how large the deal pipeline could be beyond what you’ve announced already? I can’t but what I can tell you is how much of that will actually close or happen in 2013 versus 2014.
But we are actively right now working on a number of acquisitions that include a portfolio of properties as well as individual properties that are in the neighborhood of $600 million to $800 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And then just any thoughts on kind of the recent news coming out with all these large hospital M&amp;A transactions; what you kind of think of all that and whether that’s creating any opportunities for you? Well it certainly should create opportunities and I think that were going to continue to see some consolidation.
As I said I think in the last call I think the consolidation is going to primarily be related to the consolidation by full profits if not for profits.
Some of the full profit consolidation that we see going over the market right now is somewhat of an anomaly based on some specifics with individual companies as we are all aware of but any time you’ve got those type of acquisitions where you’ve got capital needs it presents an opportunity for us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi is your FFO guidance shift impacted at all by your operating view? That is are there any additional hospitals that are no longer accruing rent? No the only one not accruing rent is Monroe.
Specifically Florence continues to pay rent.
They’ve remained current on rent through the month of August.
So there’s no impact on any operating issues and we’re not aware of any operating issues other than the ones we’ve previously discussed.
Okay.
And then also what will be the impact if any that you are now lower 2013 FFO guidance will have on compensation? Well compensation is a matter for the compensation committee and we’ve not had recent discussions with them and that wouldn’t generally happen until toward the end of the year.
Okay thank you.
That’s all.
Thank you.
I think you covered it but just wanted to see if you felt like the strategic activity going on in the broader hospital operator market could provide you with potential opportunities for deals or do you feel like there’s enough.
Would you consider something like the Vanguard Health deal which I know some REITs looked at or is the one off asset pool large enough at that point that you feel like there is enough deals in that space that you don’t need to play in sort of the bigger strategic space? Well again I think the answer to both questions is yes.
The one-offs is large enough for us to fill out our acquisition pipeline but there are an awful lot of very good looking opportunities out there with some of the strategic opportunities such as the Vanguard but some of the others in particular that I mentioned on the previous calls and just a little while ago on this call of the acquisition of not for profits by the full profit environment and we’re seeing a number of those that we think are good opportunities for us.
Some of your parents have noted some increase in competition in other sectors aside from hospitals and other healthcare spaces.
Are you guys seeing any increase in competition in your space? Not any more than usual.
I guess some of the larger healthcare REITs out there have certainly made some noise and some looks into some of the acute care space and as I have mentioned when I get asked this question I think that’s good news for us and good news for the market that we are in.
We welcome the competition at this point.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Karin.
Great thanks.
I’m just curious going back to the three-hospital acquisition.
I mean what happened in May 1 where it ended up getting shelved or pushed off and considering you’re announcing it now where you didn’t announce it on the 1Q call and it was pretty close.
What’s different now? Well the first thing was totally internal with the seller of the properties and it had nothing to do with the selling of these assets but something else that they were working on.
The thing that’s changed is that we have definitive agreement signed at this point.
Got it okay.
And two other quick ones; Steve does the 1.06 to 1.10 have debt and equity or capital markets assumptions in there? Yes to maintain the metrics that we went through a little earlier.
Okay so it does okay.
And last question just thinking about the comments on international I mean why do you think international doing something overseas makes sense at this point? I mean it seems like the domestic pipeline from what you’re saying is pretty strong and you’re saying the returns are comparable.
So what makes it that much attractive where it’s something you really want to good over and do? Mike that’s a good question and as we’ve said since the beginning when we started looking to the international it is a way for us to diversify.
We obviously are a specialized REIT in the hospital space that’s what our management team knows very well.
We are all people that came out of owning and operating hospitals whether they be the post-acute or the acute care sector.
So when we look at our portfolio and we think of how we diversified that we certainly didn’t need to diversify within the U.S.
into other products that other healthcare REITs do very well.
And looking at the international market it gives us the opportunity to continue to invest in a product that we know and know well while at the same time being able to diversify outside of the U.S.
healthcare system and take away some of the potential risk of having limited payers.
Okay thank you.
Hey Dan.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
On the international side due see any development opportunities as well as acquisition? On the development side in the international we wouldn’t do any ground-up construction development certainly at this point.
If we participated in any development side it would be as a take-out as opposed to doing it from the start.
Inc.</strong> And I’m not sure if you commented on it before but in terms of international versus domestic in your portfolio do you have some kind of target ratio you would like to be or limit to how much international you would want to do? No we haven’t mentioned that and we don’t have one.
It’s more looking at each individual transaction on an individual basis at this point and where we think it fits into our total overall portfolio.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Would it be fair to say you’re still more focused on the domestic than international? Absolutely.
Inc.</strong> I guess the other question the healthcare REITs deal or some of the big cap REITs have seen additional competition.
Have you seen private equity at all involved in the hospital space? If you could be more focused on MOBs and senior housing do you think you are finding any additional interest in the hospital space in private equity? Well there is on the operating side.
The difference between this go-round and which is all pre-2008 in pre-2008 the private equity was willing to use their dollars on the real estate as well as the operations.
Today we get a lot of calls from private equity companies that are looking to invest in the operating side of acute care hospitals and bringing us to the table for the real-estate side.
Inc.</strong> Why do you think they are avoiding the real-estate side? I’m sure what the rational is there? I don’t think they’re avoiding it at all Dan.
There is a difference in the returns that they can get from the operating side versus the real-estate side.
As you well know our real state investors require much lower return than operating investors do.
Inc.</strong> Okay it’s just math to them.
All right that’s all I have.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dan.
Inc.</strong> That’s for talking my follow on calls.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First of all with the development pipeline kind of getting much more robust now.
Could you give us a look at the sense of what expected yields are on a majority of these developments? Tayo the pipeline is not as robust as it may appear to be because of the first choice.
Other than that you’re primarily looking at the Earnest transactions.
With the Earnest transactions that we’ve done the cap rates are in line slightly higher than the up and running facilities that we purchased two years ago now almost two years ago now.
And so on an overall basis the return for the development deals is higher than it is but its not – I don’t think its as robust as you may think that it is from the standpoint of the size of the first choice transactions.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So is the number closed about 10% or slightly south of 10%? Well it varies Tayo depending on the transaction but it is higher than what we would do the comparable transaction for on that.
And as you know we don’t give it out on each individual operator.
Keep in mind Tayo on Earnest those properties go into the master lease so there is significant incremental coverage and credit there.
On the Wisconsin property for national surgical hospitals that’s a replacement hospital.
So there’s really no ramp-up risk.
There is really no construction risk because all of that is born by the well-capitalized operator.
When that facility is completed they’ll turn off the lights on the old facility and turn on the lights on the new facility and it’s truly an up and running highly profitable hospital.
So you don’t have really any of the development risk that you would otherwise think comes with the development.
Nonetheless that’s a very attractive cap rate.
Inc.</strong> But you’re not giving out specific numbers at this point to kind of help us out? We haven’t done in that several years.
Inc.</strong>  Understood.
It’s just getting bigger so I just want to make sure we are capturing your value creation from it correctly that’s all.
And then the last thing in 2Q as well you did in a couple of hospitals kind of talk about weak admission volumes.
I know you kind of alluded to it a little bit in your commentary Ed but could you kind of give us a sense of kind of what you think may have caused some of that and why your operators did not go through kind of a similar trend? Well as I said there was some softening primarily due to the lack of a flu season and some under assured or uninsured in some mark but it is still not very dramatic compared to some of the more rural areas.
If you look at our hospital portfolio ours are more urban based and metropolitan based as opposed to the pure rural players I think where you saw some of the bigger disappointments and primarily in some of the larger operators that own the community based hospitals.
Inc.</strong> Got it okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks again.
All right.
Thanks Tayo.
Thank you Lisa.
We appreciate it and we appreciate all of your interest and if you have any questions please don’t hesitate to call Steve Charles or myself.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!