Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Aircastle Q1 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) All line have been place to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remark there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
I’d now like to turn today’s conference over to Michael Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome all of you to the first quarter 2011 earnings call for Aircastle Limited.
Ron Wainshal our Chief Executive Officer will start the discussion shortly.
But first I’d like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 800-642-1687 from within the US or 706-645-9291 from outside the US with a replay pass code of 60683997.
This call will also be available via webcast from our website aircastle.com in addition to the earnings release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC report.
I direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Mike and thanks to all of you for joining us.
I’ll start by reviewing Aircastle’s first quarter 2011 results our current priorities and broader trends in the marketplace.
Mike will then discuss financials and we’ll open the call for questions.
Let’s start off first with a few key highlights.
This was another solid quarter for Aircastle.
We sustained our consistently strong portfolio utilization and rental yield.
We made tangible progress in the first quarter with asset purchases and dispositions in line with our long-term goal of generating superior risk adjusted returns.
Our new financial results started to reflect more fully the positive impact of the half-a-billion-dollars of new investments that we completed last year.
Our A330 program which accounts for $700 million of contracted asset growth throughout this year and into early next year is progressing as planned with two new aircraft deliveries to South African Airways during the first quarter.
Importantly we maintain a strong balance sheet and access to capital to position the company for further investments.
This progress reinforces our confidence about the long-term growth prospects for the company.
We’re an established well capitalized lessor with a differentiated growth strategy and deep transaction expertise.
Our competitive advantages serve us well in several high growth market segments with tough barriers to entry.
With these competitive distinctions we’re in a strong position to exploit increasing air traffic and the favourable supply-demand balance in aircraft leasing.
Moving to specific operational and financial results we again delivered a strong portfolio performance during the first quarter.
With fleet utilization of 99% and an annualized rental yield of 14% we continue to demonstrate strong demand for our aircraft and the value of our proactive approach matching our portfolio.
At the end of March our fleet count stood at 134 aircraft leased to 63 customers in 34 countries.
Latest-generation models now account for 92% of our portfolio as measured by net book value.
That’s an increase from 90% at year-end.
The weighted average remaining lease term for our portfolio is 4.7 years.
Our lease receivables remain at very good levels.
In fact as of this morning we have no accounts receivable more than 30 days overdue.
We’re also encouraged by the progress we’re making on aircraft placements.
At this stage we have only two scheduled lease expirations requiring placement this year and we’re pursuing several alternatives for both.
We’re also making good headway in placing aircraft we early terminated from two airlines in the Middle East during the first quarter.
More specifically we have commitments to lease three of the five aircraft and we’re marketing the two other units actively.
Additionally we’re seeing a strong interest in our aircraft with scheduled lease expirations in 2012.
We believe the only success we’ve had in placing these aircraft is evidenced in strength in the aircraft leasing sector.
Our financial performance during the first quarter started to reflect more fully the execution of our growth strategy during 2010.
Lease rental revenues grew 8% year over year to $141 million during the first quarter.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation and amortization which we consider an important measure of our fundamental performance increased 20% to about $96 million or $1.20 per diluted common share.
Our liquidity position remains good with unrestricted cash of $240 million.
On the financing side we continue to access attractive debt for eight new A330s which delivered in the February/March.
In both cases we entered into 12-year term loan supported by guarantees from French export credit agency COFACE.
Turning to growth the $700 million expansion of our asset base to the A300 program is progressing as planned.
We expect a third A300 delivering to South Africa to arrive within next week.
Four other A300s are scheduled to deliver by the end of the year and a fifth and final aircraft from our order is to set to deliver during the spring of 2012.
During our last call in March we discussed our plans to make between $500 million and a $1 billion in accretive new investments to capitalize on the recovery in our sector.
So far this year we’ve purchased or entered into letters of intent to purchase five aircraft.
Three of these are 747-400 passenger aircraft which we intend to convert into freighters to satisfy building demand for additional modern long-haul capacity.
This is a market we know particularly well.
It’s hungry for new lifts they both replace roughly 10% of 747 freighter population.
And by that I mean older models which were retired during the market downturn and to allow for growth to support increases in world-wide trade levels.
The other two acquisitions we’re making are into mid-age current technology category.
Both are A320s with modern CFM engines leased to a leading Chinese carrier.
We expect to acquire the first aircraft this summer and the other to be scheduled to close early next year.
We believe there’s excellent value in this segment given the residual value exposure being fairly modest and the strong cash yield.
These transactions were sourced from four different sellers and they exemplify our value-added origination capabilities.
We also demonstrated our focus on deals where we believe we possess competitive advantages including our ability to access unsecured financing to bypass bank market limitations.
As some of you know we have a solid track record of executing profitable asset sales.
We’ve consistently used selective dispositions to help us maintain a diversified in-demand modern portfolio while realizing very good returns.
Since Aircastle’s formation we’ve sold more than 20 aircraft with total proceeds in excess of $400 million with an aggregate unleveraged return on investment of 15%.
In January we completed the sale of four 737-400 aircraft we converted to freighters.
There is a discernible recovery in aircraft prices particularly for new models and for transactions where bank financing is more readily available.
In fact values in this phase and returns available for investments have in our opinion by and large recovered to pre-financial crisis levels.
We intend to capitalize on this recovery with a view towards monetizing our value-add and we’re exploring several potential aircraft sales opportunities.
Plus too early to comment on how many planes will be sold or what the financial impact of these deals might be we’re seeing strong interest.
Now I’ll shift to market developments that affect in our business.
Over the past two years we’ve seen steady encouraging trends across key industry metrics including traffic levels load factors airline profitability and parked aircraft levels.
Last year as the industry resumed its normal growth trend demand for aircraft reached all-time highs exceeding pre-recession levels both in the passenger and the cargo segments of our business.
During the past couple of months we’ve seen a slowdown in the growth rates for air traffic due to some extraordinary events including the Japanese earthquakes and tsunami along with the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa.
These developments are dampening what would otherwise be a healthy recovery particularly out of Asia.
Nonetheless in aggregate we believe improvements in global GDP continue to provide a solid foundation for continued growth in both the passenger and air cargo markets.
Parked aircraft levels remain extremely low for current production models.
And when you exclude aircraft already placed and those owned by several state-owned Middle East airlines where more than 99% deployments for 737 NGs and current generation A320 aircraft.
A continuing rebound in long-haul premium traffic on most routes around the world is driving down the level of parked mid and wide-body aircraft.
And these factors are helping to drive rental levels higher for in-production aircraft.
Of course we remain particularly mindful of increasing oil prices.
We take a balanced view of this.
While we recognize that a sustained and substantial further increase in the price of oil has slowed the industry’s growth rate we’d also like to emphasize falling points.
Firstly current fuel prices are not fundamentally altered to favourable supply-demand balance in the industry.
In fact the recent volatility in the price of oil has increased demand for more fuel efficient latest-generation aircraft which account for 92% of our portfolio as long as demand remains healthy as we continue to mitigate the impact of increased fuel prices and any margin compression among airlines.
In this context we remind that seasonally adjusted load factors are still at or near all-time highs.
Secondly in trying to predict how geopolitical unrest might affect performance of lessors it’s important to distinguish between systemic shocks and long-term trends.
And to remember there are certain aspects of our business model will reliably offset or delay adverse effects.
For example our aircraft are secured on long-term contracts and we have an excellent track record of matching our lease receivables and minimizing the risk of defaults.
Also aircraft are portable assets and may be redeployed relatively easily to markets with stronger demand.
Having said that we are of course watching these developments closely and we are prepared to take steps to mitigate the impact of the adverse effects.
So far we are very pleased with how we manage our business in the Middle East.
As of March 31 our exposure to airlines based in this region is approximately 7.5% as measured by net book value with nearly all of this consisting of two relatively new 747-400 freighters on long-term leases with Emirates one of the world’s most profitable airlines.
As most of you know the competitive landscape for lessors continues to evolve spurred by improvements in global GDP and growing investor interest.
We are encouraged by these developments and we continue to believe that accentuate our competitive strengths such as capital structure transaction expertise a differentiated growth strategy and access to a variety of financing sources.
Based on the industry trends or viewed in our performance strength Q1 we are optimistic about our growth prospects for 2011 and beyond we have a strategic vision in resources to continue to deliver strong portfolio performance and strong financial results to expand our asset base to maintain our dividend and to make opportunistic investments such as the share repurchase we recently announced.
I’ll turn over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As expected the first quarter of 2011 was another strong quarter as we begin to see the contribution from the Airbus program and the aircraft assets we added to fleet during the second half of 2010.
Lease rental revenue for the first quarter 2011 was a $141.1 million up $11 million from Q1 ’10 due primarily to the impact of the aircraft acquisitions net of dispositions of $14.9 million which was partially offset by lower lease rental revenues due to lease terminations of $2.1 million and lease transitions and extensions of $1.8 million.
Our portfolio yield for the quarter came in at 14% up about 23 basis points from the first quarter of 2010 and revenue utilization for the quarter was 99%.
Total revenues for the first quarter 2011 were a $157.9 million up $27.4 million year over year reflecting an increase of $11 million in lease rental revenue an increase of $11.6 million in maintenance revenue and a $3 million increase in other revenue.
As previously mentioned on our year-end earnings call during the first quarter of 2011 we early terminated five leases four A320s and one A319 and as a result we recognized $13 million of unscheduled maintenance revenue and $2.7 million of other revenue from security deposit coverage and lease termination fees.
Also during the first quarter these aircraft contributed $1.2 million in lease rental revenue prior to lease termination and the impact on lease incentives in the quarter was $500 000 benefit related to the termination.
EBITDA for the quarter was $154.3 million up $33.1 million from the first quarter of 2010 reflecting higher lease rental revenue maintenance and other revenue as well as a gain of $9.7 million from the sale of four 737 freighter aircraft.
These increases were partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and maintenance and other costs totaling $2.2 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $32.9 million or $0.41 per diluted common share up $12.3 million year over year reflecting the increase in total revenue of $27.4 million.
This increase was partially offset by $5.4 million of increased depreciation $6.4 million in adjusted interest expense and the $2.2 million in higher SG&amp;A and maintenance and other costs.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation &amp; amortization for the quarter was $95.6 million or $1.20 per diluted common share up $16 million year over year due mainly to an increase in the lease rental revenue increase in maintenance and other revenue.
These increases again were partially offset by increased adjusted interest expense of $6.4 million and the SG&amp;A maintenance and other cost increases totaling $2.2 million.
Reported interest for the quarter was $45.6 million which was higher by $4.7 million year over year driven mainly by the higher average debt balance outstanding for the period.
Total SG&amp;A for the first quarter 2011 was $12.5 million up $800 000 from the first quarter of 2010 reflecting a combination of higher personnel expenses and professional fees in the quarter.
Depreciation expense for the first quarter ‘11 was $59.6 million and at the end of the quarter our monthly run rate depreciation was right around $20 million.
In the first quarter 2011 our tax position indicates an effective tax rate of about 7.1% and reflects the revenue and income source remix from the portfolio during the quarter.
For the full year 2011 we expect the effective tax rate to be in the 7% to 8% range.
Switching to our investment activity during the quarter we took delivery of two A330s from Airbus in February and March of this year on long-term leases to South African Airways.
These aircraft were funded with ECA supported 12-year fixed rate term loans with rates of 3.79% and 3.73% respectively.
And as I mentioned we also completed the sale of the four 737-400 freighters which contributed a $9.7 million pre-tax gain in the quarter.
At quarter end our annualized lease rental run rates on the portfolio excluding the freighters we sold obviously in the first quarter was around $567 million of which $93 million was being generated from 18 aircraft we own outright with any financing related encumbrances.
Looking ahead to Q2 2011 expectations we expect the annualized lease rental revenue run rate at end of the second quarter to be essentially flat at the $567 million figure.
This reflects the combined effects of our expected A330 delivery in May of 2011 and the countervailing impact of the revenue downtime from the four A320s and the A319 in the quarter which we expect to return to revenue service during the third quarter as well as the sale of our last 737-500 aircraft which is also expected to close in early May.<br> Maintenance revenue is expected to range between $3 million and $5 million reflecting expected lease transitions during the second quarter and amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives is expected to range from about $3 million to $5 million also.
We ended the quarter with $240 million of unrestricted operating cash $191 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
With a strong balance sheet and steady cash flows and access to capital we are in an excellent position to support our growth strategy continue our current dividend policy and to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities including the stock repurchase program we announced in March of 2011.
As we discussed on our last call we believe that repurchasing our stock at current levels represent a very attractive use of our capital.
And through Friday of last week April 29 we’ve repurchased 2.9 million shares representing approximately 3.6% of the outstanding balance at year-end at an average cost of $12.13 per share for an aggregate investment of about $35 million.
At the end of the quarter we had $2.7 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of approximately $2.5 billon which is 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark to market on our interest rate derivates was approximately 1.6 to 1 at quarter end and we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants and financial tests.
To conclude the business continues to perform very well and contribution from our second half 2010 aircraft acquisitions along with the Airbus program deliveries are now beginning to be realized.
With our strong liquidity position and access to the capital markets combined with the expected strong cash flow performance from the existing portfolio we continue to expect a strong 2011.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned a month ago at the Investor Conference that you had three LOIs for the five planes in the Middle East you are hoping for more details and it looks like over the last month none of those LOIs were firmed up and the other two planes are still looking for customers I think – is there something happening in the marketplace is there something specific about these aircraft that that might be making it more difficult to release? No we actually did firm up the LOI.
So we have firm commitments on those three aircraft Gary.
I think we’re getting pretty close to on our fourth airplane.
The last remaining aircraft is a 330 that has two engines that need to go to shop and that makes it a little tougher to release.
That one probably is lagger to the group but it’s just the condition of the engines.
Okay.
And as we look forward to second quarter given these five planes and maybe aren’t you seeing any other weakness but what do you expect the utilization rate to look like in the second quarter? I think it’s probably a fair bet through 98%.
Okay.
And then one last one.
You mentioned in the slides that one of the goals is to try to pick up the ROE a little bit do you have a short term or a long term ROE target? Nothing that I can share with you right now but I think you’ll see ROE improving on the following dimensions.
Number one I think the new investments we’re making are quite attractive.
Number two is share buyback program helps.
Number three there is a lot of I think promise on the asset sale side.
I don’t have anything specific to share with you just yet but I think there is a lot of potential there.
We also have a couple of lower key initiatives in regards to third-party management I don’t have anything report on that either but those are also things we’re doing.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Light with Citi.
Hi Mike and Ron.
Hi Andrew.
Hi.
A couple of questions.
Since the loaners repossessed planes it doesn’t seem to be much of a negative impact on the income statement profile I mean will we expect – would you expect I think (inaudible) some maintenance cost etcetera in the one just the (inaudible)? Yes.
I think the first thing to point out is that the grand total of the net book value for those aircraft is 2% of our books so you got to put it in context.
Now as Mike mentioned during his prepared remarks we had during the first quarter significant maintenance and other revenues that are attributable to those lease terminations.
In total it’s about $16 million.
As we look at redeploying the aircraft the results would be– the placements aren’t all set but I think it’s a pretty good guess that $16 million is the estimated the redeployment cost.
The vast majority of that by the way is probably capitalized.
And so that P&amp;L effect is felt only over time.
Right.
That’s what –.
The revenue rental revenue our profile there will be a step-down.
I think during the last call we had broadcast that for the five aircraft in aggregate we expected the rental revenue would be somewhere in the order of $800 000 to $1 million per month.
I think it’s probably coming in a little bit on the lower end of that but that’s probably still our best guess on that.
As Mike mentioned also during his remarks the third quarter is our expectation for when the revenue is big it gets turned on although we are working on perhaps getting more to the back-end service sooner than that.
That $800 000 to $1 million is that for those five aircraft? Yes.
That’s an aggregate per month.
Aggregate.
A second question on the conversions I mean how does it work with these three aircraft you buy do you buy them and then you just wait for conversions loss or do you lease to have you so the conversions no weather you owe – how does that work? It’s a very good question because the downtime obviously has an effect on earnings and on the return.
We have a couple of different scenarios here first aircraft that we bought and already we purchased it is off lease and we secured a slot with aerospace industries to make that into freighter.
We did that because of the – this kind of the strong demand for getting something in service soon; if we were to do an interim lease it could get in the way.
Another aircraft that we have which we hope to close within the next month or two is on lease already with a lessee a passenger lessee and it will have a good earnings profile up until the conversion point.
So it depends and I think in the next call we’ll have a lot more clarity on that.
Finally with the same subject I’m still recounting for the conversions where I can say a rise in sales that of our construction that’s that most of the planes was down on the commercial there is no depreciation or where leases capitalize would that be fair? Yes.
That’s correct.
So as the plane is going through the conversion shop there is – it’s not ready for its intended purpose so it’s not being depreciated and some interest would get capitalized associated with the in-construction cost.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay thanks very much indeed.
Certainly.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just on the buyback you guys are possibly aggressive I think on purchasing shares.
I’m wondering you have I think the authorization right now is $50 million is there any covenants or any limitations on increasing the authorization? Scott back in March and we do have some covenants in the context of our high-yield indenture that would – that place limits ultimately on the size restricted payments which this would fall into.
But it’s comfortably beyond what was originally authorized and we’ll continue to evaluate the program and the uses of capital here as we move forward.
Okay.
And then just on the evaluation front the return of the aircraft for the Middle-East Africa region that should or any type of evaluation requirements? No in the context of having a lease termination that is one of the indication events that require us to do an impairment assessment.
With respect to aircraft we completed that assessment on all five of these aircraft and determined that there was no need for an impairment of any of those assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then in terms of you mentioned the $500 million to $1 billion of additional aircraft.
In the past you’ve said that kind of the outside of five years maybe a little bit older aircraft market is what’s been attractive aircraft due to lack of competition on the bidding side is that still the case? You are seeing more entrants in that segment of the market? It’s still the case.
And I think there are three planks to our growth strategy based on what we saw as being attractive the freighters the long-haul freighters which we talked about.
The current generation narrow bodies these are kind of earlier part of the production line and then I think some high-quality Wi-Fi 777s A330s.
Competition has increased it’s now getting around that.
I think the unlevered returns we are seeing on the new narrow bodies back in the second half of last year we are probably in the 13% 14% 15% return territory that’s how we come in a couple of percent maybe more.
It’s very situation specific and I think we did quite well on this China – Chinese A320s mentioned but it’s very situational.
But what also kind of helps at the same time is that interest rates are still really low.
I think if we really go do a financing in the market right now we probably come out head relative to where we would have been last year from an return on equity perspective.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Neidl with Maxim Group.
Yes.
A more general industry type of question you talked about parked aircraft being one of the components you look at for growth what are you seeing now as far as the parked aircraft? I imagine there is a large fleet out there of aircraft that will never come back a few inefficient aircraft I was wondering the efficient aircraft the aircraft that might come back into the system is that still a big percentage? Is it still out of availability there? Here it’s Ron.
I think that first of all in terms of supply you have two generic sources.
One of them is new production and the manufacturers is still a lot for years to come and the second sources is what’s parked.
And what’s parked – if you look at the new generation narrow bodies 320 family aircraft and 737 MGs you are at about 1% of the fleet that’s on the ground and when you actually stratify that and go into details a lot of the aircraft in between leases.
There is already somebody kind of tags for that aircraft at some point in the near future.
And there is also particularly on the Airbus side a lot of aircraft owned some of the state-owned carriers in the North African Middle-East area.
So those are not effectively competing their part store they are not a source of available capacity for anybody who wants more lift.
So it’s within 1% for that family or class of aircraft.
For the wide bodies the 777s or A 330s it’s 1% or 2% very very strong demand and again driven by the resurgence in high-yield traffic.
Where you see the weakness is in the out of production aircraft or the classic 737 family and for the older-generation Airbus aircraft you are seeing 50% 20% parked aircraft.
And as we’ve said several times in the past I think the outlook for those aircraft particularly against the backdrop of high-fuel prices is not good.
So it’s really the question what you’re looking at.
But in production aircraft very very low levels; basically you’re pretty close to full swing.
Okay.
And Boeing says that they’re probably going to have the Boeing 787 available by late this year.
If that’s true if that comes in the market will that have any effect at all on the leasing market? Well I think – the leasing market anybody with A 330s or 767s for the past several years has gotten the windfall and the first delivery is important but it’s actually not the most important thing.
The most important thing is how fast will they begin delivering aircraft right? Because there is a pent-up need.
In effect the industry has been relying on only one supplier at half production levels if you will for the last several years.
And so there is a pent-up need.
We have several 767s and A 330 coming off lease within the next 12 to 18 months and we are seeing very strong demand for those aircraft notwithstanding that.
So in time it will have an effect Ray and that’s kind of always been our expectation but it’s has been with anything sort of a pleasant upside for us.
Okay great.
Thanks Ron.
Yes.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just wondering on the focus on improving near-term ROE the 747 freighter strategy I think obviously those will have a great return down the road if you are right in your assumptions and so forth but it does hurt you from a near-term perspective so I’m wondering how you’ve factored that into the equation? For a situation where the aircraft sitting on the ground wings for air conversion you are right it’s short term.
Now we are not going to manage the business based on the next quarter it’s going to be on the long-run.
So on that marginal example about the case for the example where I mentioned the lease is actually in place it’s actually going to be I think a pretty positive thing.
But the main story is we don’t manage the business quarter to quarter it’s through long-run.
Okay.
And then it seems Ron if I interpret if your comment on the difference between the market environment on midway for more older aircraft with the newer aircraft it seems that if you are softening your stance or you are shifting stance a little bit more towards more modern equipment am I hearing you correctly that your preference is changing? Absolutely not.
This has been same strategy we’ve had for the last – in terms of the midlife aircraft since the middle of last year and we continue to believe that’s a very attractive place.
The market always evolves and so we don’t ever kind of set our strategy in concrete but it’s very relevant.
And the returns on the new aircraft as I said during my remarks I think those are basically and pretty close to pre-crisis levels.
The returns on these midlife aircraft are not even close to that yet.
They have as I mentioned also compressed a little bit but they are still very rich.
And we see the demand for those midlife aircraft to be very strong.
Moreover the residual value exposure profile for that type of aircraft is much lower in my opinion than buying last offline the 320 or whatever it might be be it the current generation that’s what we’ve been saying.
Okay.
I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
And then no one has brought the big fish well it remained nameless because of the worked for who’s out there trading at a big premium to book and you are trading at a discount.
You’re selling your portfolio assets at a premium to book value.
How do you think about this discrepancy in the marketplace in closing that evaluation gap between you and now one of your public peers? How do you think that happens over time? Is it something you are obviously focused on? I’m just wondering if you have a view on how you can get the market sort of respect your portfolio more than some others that are out there with a benchmark in ascent? I think we focus first of all on what we do and I think we are doing a great job in terms of finding accretive investment opportunities and what people think of the value of metals is going to catch up.
Now the significant thing about the Big Fish or the God Father or whatever you want to call them is that they brought in a lot of new money into the sector.
And from what I understand from my banker friends most of the investors are new to aircraft first source that’s a very positive thing.
I think the sector benefits from that directly or indirectly.
And I think the fundamentals of what we do the fundamentals of our sector are extremely attractive still.
So the more interest and more attention the better.
I think fundamentally though you are driven – your successes in the long-run driven by how you do as opposed to the reflection of somebody else.
Do you think that the discount to broker that you and your sort of public peers prior to a month ago experience has something to do with maybe investor perception on portfolio quality or and that’s – the events over the last couple of weeks here would that new public peer indicate that investors just prefer a newer aircraft portfolio and even though you have a higher sort yield out of your portfolio versus the comfort with newer aircraft I’m just wondering if you’ve thought about that or have any opinion on that? I think there has definitely been a lot of talk when you read the press and analyst reports about newest grade and anything that’s not new is not as good.
We take a very different view about that.
Obviously our investment philosophy is not just about lease the aircraft but what you earn.
This is an investment business; it’s not an asset collection business.
And there’s nothing wrong with buying new aircraft.
Like any investor you have to have a view about what you all in return will be over a horizon.
And our view is that there is better value particularly given our capital structure particularly given our advantages in creating value from transactions by doing what we are doing.
That’s not something most people can do.
There is only a handful of guys that can do the freighter conversion work and make that work and generate the teen type unlevered returns that’s competitive advantage.
I think that the fact that we have unsecured market access is a huge competitive advantage when you are trading in the midlife aircraft.
So I think people of it’s a big sector there is lot of ways to win.
We think this is a great way to go.
Okay.
And just the last question for me just on capital structure the unsecured funding strategy and so forth at the same time you’ve got the share repurchase program.
You are still 67% leverage on a book basis and so forth.
Yet starting this summer if you don’t refinance that first securitization and then over the next three years or so you are going to be sort of naturally deleveraging how are you balancing the financial risks that you have on the balance sheet in the business versus this ROE improvement goal and maintain an unsecured access it’s obviously multiple things to balance there.
I’m just wondering if you can give us some more color on that? Yes Mark it’s Mike.
I think as we look ahead and if the securitization stay in place and we are comfortable and happy if they do.
The business would naturally delever it we did nothing else but we think sort of at a corporate level and as we think about the capital structure that’s somewhere around 2 to 1 leverage is a reasonable target and comfortable capital structure for running a business of this type.
And we believe we will have access to debt capital outside of those structures at the corporate level or somewhere in-between that’ll allow us to continue to invest in profitable assets and grow the business.
So we don’t see it in and of itself as in any way inconsistent with our view that we can grow the business and that we can improve the ROE of the business over time.
I think the debt market right now is quite attractive for us.
And realistically I think as we look at growth opportunities it will get abundant from a combination of the cash on hand and the incremental financing.
That I can change but that’s what it looks today.
Great thanks.
I appreciate all the time.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
Thanks very much operator.
Most of my questions have been answered but one and that’s – what should we think about maintenance revenue going forward? As I said in my prepared remarks Helane we are expecting somewhere between $3 million and $5 million in the second quarter based on the lease transitions that we expect to take place.
Alright.
Everything else was really asked and answered.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Pinkerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
A couple of questions about the $500 million of additional investments you guys have talked a little bit about is that going to be a long-term increase in the size of the portfolio or do you see some opportunities to maybe buy aircraft do conversions and then maybe sell them on like you have with some of the recent freighter conversions that you’ve done.
The answer is probably a combination of both.
I couldn’t tell you specifically what.
But there is definitely a strategy in our part to capitalize on what I think is a significant increase interest in us.
And what we’ve always done a really good job of is add value to transactions.
It takes a little while to do the freighter conversion and I think you don’t capture value from that scenario Josh until you get the aircraft back on lease with the freighter operator.
But that’s certainly something we look at.
The aircraft that we’ve been targeting for sale are in many cases aircraft that we’ve “added value to” as we’re capturing that premium it makes a lot of sense and I think in net you will see the company increasing in size.
And so it sounds like you guys are pretty bulled up about the unsecured market it doesn’t make sense that you see that as the most attractive way if you were going to increase the size of the fleet to fund it through the unsecured market? I think it depends on the situation.
If we’re buying aircraft one or two at a time it’s very hard to do anything efficient in a secured context.
Doesn’t mean that we wouldn’t look at it but the secured market works better in size we have a bulk transaction.
So it depends on how we come about buying aircraft.
Great.
And just a few more questions I know this has been a topic that you guys have talked a lot about but the securitization the last time we talked it sounded like you guys were pretty comfortable with leaving that 2006 outstanding once that starts to increase amortization in I guess about a month-and-a–half now but I just want to check on so – I get to about $50 million each quarter of increased amortization payments and I want to see if that lined up where you guys are getting? And then where do you think that – you guys are obviously generating plenty of cash but $50 million is a pretty descent chunk do you think it’s fair that stock buybacks may come down in the second half of the year as more cash goes to the amortizations or where would that cash come from? I think – actually I think your numbers are a bit high Josh and we’ll be filing our 10-Q later today and you can look at our estimates of how we think that plays out – Okay.
Going forward.
And I don’t think it in of itself is going to impact our view or our program on stock buybacks that we have in place today.
Great.
I will wait for the K then and then – or the Q.
And then one more question you mentioned – it sounded earlier in previous call that you were comfortable for 2006 or maybe lean towards if the markets were amenable to refinancing the 2007 securitization is that still the outlook you guys have? We are still looking at both of them and we’ll continue to do so over time.
I think as I’ve mentioned before one of the refinancing impediments in the 06’ deal is its existing fixed rate hedge which lasts until 2016 it was 10-year hedge done at the time of the securitization and given where interest rates are today it creates additional refinancing cost friction that doesn’t make any numbers close from our perspective.
The ‘07 deal by contrast has an additional hedge that expires at the fifth anniversary and given the interest environment today we would expect to have a much lower cost of interest on that deal if things don’t change dramatically between now and then.
So you don’t have that correction for a refinancing.
And if I don’t refinance it it will have a – we expect it to have a lower interest expense from the middle of 12 forward.
Given it’s a bigger portfolio it’s a younger portfolio I think the chances of finding a way to do some refinancing are higher than the 06’ deal but we are not making a foregone conclusion in either direction.
Our main message is we would be perfectly comfortable lending a continued run.
Once it reached cash strap mode it’s a non-recourse financing it has very attractive costs associated with it and as I said we believe we can raise capital to grow the business outside of that structure.
That’s great.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Altschul with Aviation Advisory.
Good morning gentlemen.
Got a couple of questions please.
You alluded – the previous question alluded to the major new entrant in the field and I believe there have been some other entities that have recently raised money for aircraft leasing do you think that’s going happen how granted.
and not everybody necessarily doing freighter conversions but freighter conversions are not the only thing you do do you think the presence of all this new capital in the space is going to drive down returns in a material way? I think it already has but it has where the – the entrants first of all have kind of come in the bit of barbell more specifically most of the new money is coming on US airplanes and the reason that’s the case is because there’s financing available and you could lever up and hopefully get a descent ROE.
The other basket has been end of life aircraft.
There hasn’t been so much new money in the middle of the market where doing it to get access to debt and historically it has come from banks but the banks aren’t playing in that market by and large.
But there is a – as I said during the remarks for the new aircraft the way I measure it I think your pre-crisis return levels.
So the premium from the downturn has been eroded away to basically zero.
It’s gotten a little bit more competitive in the middle market too and I think some of that competition is coming from people who aren’t levering.
So it is inevitable nothing lasts forever but I think there is little bit of a longer recovery period there and a bigger wind if you will for us.
But eventually that will get competed away too.
And what we are doing is recognizing that there is a – there’s been already a recovery and the new aircraft is focusing our sales efforts there that’s where we can get the return if you will.
Okay.
More technique thank you.
With reference made both in the balance sheet and the cash outflow statement to the liquidity facility there’s also been a cash outflow and a cash inflow from the – relating to the liquidity facility collateral what is this liquidity facility and are there likely to be the major demands for collateral in the near future? The liquidity facility that’s referenced in the cash flow statements refers to – in each of our securitizations and our term financing loan there’re liquidity facilities available to meet certain expenses and obligations if under circumstances which we don’t expect and have never experienced.
The portfolio does not generate sufficient cash to service all of its cash needs in any particular period.
The one that runs through the cash flow statement in 2008 one of the liquidity facility provider experienced a ratings downgrade and rather than just have a standby facility they were actually required to post collateral in a restricted account to cover their obligations.
As the deal delevers that facility is sized as a percentage of the principal balance.
So in each period as the principal balance amortizes the amount that they have to have in that restricted cash account declines and so that is the offsetting and it’s an equal amount of asset and liability on our balance sheet that will go down over time with respect to that deal.
Jim we really don’t benefit or get harmed by that one way or the other.
It’s sort of there to protect the bondholders.
And it was purely – well there’s something that came into place because of the downgrade of that provider.
As far as financial tests go both securitizations don’t have loan to value or they have collateral posting requirements or tests.
Thank you very much for you detailed answers as always to my questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Ron did you say when you expected to have the 747 freighters enter service? I don’t think I did.
In the case of the aircrafts acquired already there’s the one that’s just recently entered into freighter conversion.
We expect that to come online probably in the fourth quarter some point.
The other aircraft we’re kind of figuring out exactly how to balance that out.
The aircraft that has a remaining passenger lease goes out until Q1 of next year and only at that point would we expect to induct that into a freighter conversion.
The third one we haven’t decided what we’re going to do just yet.
Okay.
And just to be clear you’re going to capitalize all the acquisition and conversion costs so your reported yield might come down a little bit? Yes.
Alright.
Also (inaudible) on the sort of the large freighters and it seems to be a pretty sizable replacement to market for 737 freighters and you do own a few 737 classics.
I mean are you also looking at sort of the narrow body freighter conversion what types of returns might you see there? It’s a very different market.
We’ve played in that market in a couple of ways.
Number one we have an existing program.
There’s one aircraft left.
It’s a forward sale of 757s to a very large operator of 757 freighters.
So that last freighter – the last 757 is scheduled to be sold during fourth quarter of the year.
We’ve probably talked about this a lot but we converted several 737-400 freighters and leased them last year.
There is a market there but it’s a nicher market.
And I’m more comfortable relatively speaking with the long-haul wide-body market.
There’s a bigger customer base.
There’re people who will lease as opposed to just buy and I think there’s a bigger opportunities there.
Having said that I think you’re right.
There’s a pick-up in that but I think the opportunity the amount of focus we’ll get there would probably be relatively lower.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
And there’re no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.