Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your call conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q2 2011 earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn today’s conference over to Michael Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Inglese you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome all of you to the second quarter 2011 earnings call for Aircastle Limited.
Ron Wainshal our Chief Executive Officer will start the discussion shortly but first I’d like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 855-859-2056 from within the U.S.
or 404-537-3406 from outside the U.S.
with the replay passcode of 83374902.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website aircastle.com in addition to the earnings release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may different material from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ material from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC report.
I direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Mike and thanks for joining us today.
I’ll start by reviewing Aircastle’s second quarter results current trends in the marketplace and our growth strategy.
Mike will then discuss our financials and we’ll open the call to your questions.
Let’s start with a few highlights.
Q2 was a strong quarter for Aircastle providing us with good momentum heading into the second half of the year.
Our portfolio continued to perform well as we once again achieved high utilization and strong rental yields.
During the quarter we also continued to successfully place aircraft and maintain a diverse global customer base.
We’re also realizing tangible benefits from our disciplined value-added investment approach; specifically the $760 million of investments we made over the past 12 months has enabled the company to post higher revenues and earnings.
Complementing the build-in growth from the Airbus A330 program we continue to build a pipeline of acquisition opportunities so we expect to generate more than half-a-billion dollars of attracted investments in the second half of this year.
To be clear this is above and beyond the A330 program.
For these incremental investments we’re focusing on deals that offer great value and where we feel we have a competitive edge be it through our technical and dealer tenation strengths or access to unsecured funding.
Of course we’re watching macro developments closely and will remain disciplined in our acquisition approach.
Consistent with our strategy we’ll continue to seek value-add opportunities in line with our goal of generating risk-adjusted returns.
In the same vein we also look – continue to look for opportunities as we did in the second quarter to take advantage of value in the market through asset dispositions.
We have a solid track record of executing profitable aircraft sales and we’ll seek additional opportunities to capitalize on increasing aircraft prices.
That benefit from new investor interest and these sales will enable us to achieve strong returns.
During the quarter we increased our dividend 25% demonstrating the board’s [inaudible] confidence in Aircastle’s disciplined growth strategy and in the strength of our cash flows.
Given the stock market conditions we continue to review repurchasing shares as an excellent investment that complements our aircraft position strategy and dividend policy.
And as such the board recently authorized an additional $30 million for our repurchase program on top of the 60 million we completed early this year.
All in all through our strong portfolio performance a value-oriented investment program including stock buybacks and an opportunistic approach to asset sales we’re driving earnings per share growth.
Now let’s take a look as some specific operational and financial updates.
Our second quarter utilization rate was 98% and our rental yield came in at 14%.
We anticipate we’ll continue to generate strong utilization in rental units for the second half of the year and we expect to achieve 99% utilization and rental yields also at 14%.
Aircastle’s strong portfolio performance is directly related to our in-demand modern aircraft and a proactive approach to managing our assets.
92% of our fleet of 136 aircraft which are leased to 59 customers is made up of the latest-generation aircraft.
The weighted average remaining lease term for our portfolio is almost five years providing the company with a contracted revenue stream with a nice long duration.
In terms of lease receivables we have no accounts more than 30 days outstanding.
We continue make good progress on aircraft placements.
In early 2011 we had 11 aircrafts with scheduled lease expirations and since then we had an additional eight aircraft to place through their early terminations or our acquisition of off-lease aircraft.
Of these 19 aircraft in total we have new leases lease extensions or sales commitments executed for 17 leaving just two aircraft.
We’re actively marketing the last two aircraft which represent well below 1% of our fleet’s spent-book value.
Looking ahead towards 2012 to begin with we had 24 aircraft with leases expired next year.
So far we’ve negotiated lease extensions for seven of these including five A330s with extension terms ranging from 5 to 8 years.
These seven aircrafts account for almost half of the net-book value of our 2012 lease expirations helping us lock in our revenue base going forward.
We’re also making good progress on remaining aircraft and are in active discussions for most of them.
We’d like to note that [inaudible] early airlines commit to leases far in advance so we believe the progress we’ve made with these aircraft says a lot about our customer relationships the strengths of our counter parties and the demand for the type of aircraft in our portfolio.
In terms of financial performance during the second quarter we generated $143 million in lease rental revenues.
This was a 12% year-over-year increase.
Net income increased 29% to over $23 million or $0.30 per diluted common share.
This strong performance is directly related to the built-in growth from our A330 program and the investments we’ve made over the past year.
Additionally our liquidity position remains strong with unrestricted cash of $184 million at June 30<sup>th</sup> and that’s not to mention $50 million in credit facility which is undrawn.
During the beginning of the year we saw positive trends continue across key industry metrics such as traffic levels load factors and parked aircraft.
During the first half of the year passenger traffic measured by revenue passenger kilometers was up about 8% on a year-over-year basis.
This is better than the industry’s long-term growth rate of about 4 to 5% per year.
Free traffic was also up about 2% versus a huge surge in traffic in 2010 as inventories were restocked then.
More recently these trends have moderated as we’ve witnessed the slowdown in economic growth rates around the world.
Air traffic growth rates have also slowed over the past few months the overall conditions remain good.
Contributing to this was the impacts from high fuel prices; the natural disasters in Japan civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and economic weaknesses in Europe along with concerns about government finances in both the U.S.
and Europe.
However the strength of Asian demand in several other areas such as Latin America Turkey and Russia among others is helping to support the overall market.
I’d also note that the weak U.S.
dollar is making aircraft leases which are denominated in U.S.
dollars look really cheap for most foreign airlines.
We continue to see rental rates recover from their lows in 2009 and I’d say they’re nearly half way back relative to their peak in early 2008.
However here too we’re seeing a leveling off in overall rental rates so there continue to be big differences across aircraft types.
<br>In general we see a more robust market for modern wide bodies reflecting the relative strength of the longhaul markets and a much tighter supply picture that factors in continuing delays in the 787 program.
It also appears that longhaul premium traffic is turning a little better than short haul.
We’re seeing the slowdown in demand growth most for narrow body aircraft though notice demand for the Boeing 737 NGs particularly the 800s remains good.
Conversely the outlook for Classic Generation narrow body’s continue to be very tough as more and more operators switch over to modern aircraft and I note these modern aircraft accounts for the vast majority of our fleet.
And this is what enables the company to achieve consistently high utilization levels.
Continuing fuel price volatility is an important driver [inaudible] unless you just want more fuel efficient aircraft.
Turning to developments in new aircraft.
The past several months have been very eventful.
The Paris Air Show was a coming out party for the Airbus A-320NEO.
Airbus success and garnering a large number of impressive orders for the NEO and several major refleeting campaigns appear to have caused Boeing to rethink its strategy and they announce the re-engine 737 in response.
While we’ll need to get more clarity in Boeing’s strategy these developments have attracted a great deal of attention and we’re certainly working on learning more about both of these new and interesting aircraft programs.
<br>But overshadowed by the NEO and the re-engined 737 news were several important developments in the wide-body market that essentially amount to further delays in both existing programs and in potential new aircraft.
<br>This is quite positive for existing platforms particularly the Boeing triple 7s and the Airbus A330s.
It appears that Boeing is shifting its focus away from a triple 7 replacement and focusing it’s engineering resources towards the re-engine 737.
Remember they still have their hands full with a 787 and 747-8 programs.
Airbus announced several changes to its A-350 XWB program including further delays to their dash 1000 program to make sure that they’ve got the engine right and their shifting their initial focus to the mid-size 900 variant rather than the smaller 800.
This effectively pushes out deliveries for the program.
<br>Given these developments and what looks like a slow ramp up in 787 production we believe there’s excellent relative value as well as absolute value to be had in wide-body investments.
<br>I’d now like to discuss our built-in growth and the execution of our growth strategy.
Our A-330 program continues to remain on track.
During the quarter we delivered the third new A-330 in South African Airways.
Then in July we took delivery of a fourth unit leased to South African as well as another A-330 freighter lease to Hong Kong Airlines.
We financed these aircraft with long term ECA-back debt during very attractive rates and providing us with stronger terms on equity.
We expect that two more A-330s will be delivered before the end of this year and then our final A-330 will be delivered in the Spring of 2012.
We expect to make more than half a billion dollars in accretive new investments during the second half of this year through a disciplined investment strategy that emphasizes our value add-deal orientation.
We remain focused on deals were we believe we possess competitive advantages including our teams origination strength technology capabilities and our ability to access unsecured financing to bypass back market limitations.
<br>These advantages fundamentally speak to the value of our enterprise.
We don’t necessarily follow the pack when it comes to aircraft investments.
Our approach is born out of a rigorous critical analysis of supply and demand trends and technological developments combined with our in-depth knowledge of the market.
<br>We’re investors and in addition to the age and the type of the aircraft we believe price and income really matter.
At the moment we think it’s hard to achieve even double-digit ROEs on new narrow body’s and we believe their meaningful downside risk given the way production rates are increasing and then the new re-engine model which are on their way.
However we happen to think newer wide body’s such as the A-330s and Boeing triple 7s represent attractive investments given strong operator demand I think quality customer base and what we think of it it’s a distinctly better residual value outlook.
<br>This allows us competition for transactions in this space.
We also believe there’s very good value in mid-aged current-technology technology narrow body aircraft where prices are low cash yields are strong and customer demand continues to be good.
I think one way to summarize our view on these types of investments is that the payback to part out value is really short.
In fact I think we can achieve it before the end of the decade.
This means that we can recover our investments fully and then some well within the timeframe – within that time period and also during the early days of the new technology narrow body’s.
We think this is a lower risk and higher return strategy that capitalizes on our access to the bond market.
However we’ve seen some price appreciation here as others have begun to follow suit but we’re still very bullish on this segment of the market.
We also continue to see interesting opportunities in the air cargo sector where we’re a market leader.
Turning to dispositions we have a very strong record of executing profitable asset sales.
We’ve been able to maintain a diversified in-demand modern portfolio using a selective disposition strategy.
Since Aircastle’s founding we’ve sold 22 aircraft generating net proceeds in excess of $.5 billion with an aggregate unleveraged return of around 15%.
During the quarter we took advantage of strong asset prices particularly for new aircraft and sold a A-330 for an aggregate unleveraged return of around 50% which translated into a leverage return of even more than double that demonstrating our value-added investment approach.
<br>We’ll continue to valuate asset sales during the second half of 2011 and look to capitalize in market trends and the strong interest we’re seeing.
We expect to continue making progress this year in driving EPS growth between the Airbus deliveries our investment program I expect will have more than $1 billion in new investments coming online this year.
And this will help us generate the growth in flight equipment of 10 to 20% during the year excluding any second half asset sales.
<br>We may have we have a great balance sheet strong cash flows and a proven ability to access multiple sources of capital and this will enable us to fund our growth.
EPS performance will also benefit from continued strong portfolio results as well as our optimistic sales approach and our share buyback program.
<br>We’re quite positive on our outlook and we’re confident in the strength of our cash flows which led us to increase our dividend recently.
Aircastle is an established well capitalized lessor with a differentiated and disciplined investment strategy and deep transactional expertise.
We’re very optimistic about our ability to capitalize competitive advantages and to generate accretive growth providing superior returns holders.
I’ll now turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Lease rental revenue for the second quarter was 143.4 million up by 15.2 million or 12% year-over-year due primarily to the impact of aircraft acquisitions net of dispositions of 18.5 million.
This increase was partially offset by lower lease rentals due to lease terminations and transition and expansion of about 3.7 million.
Due to 2011 fleet utilization of 98% and rental yield of just around 14% reflects the downtime associated with the five aircraft we early terminated in the first quarter of ’11 and we expect fleet utilization to be back up to 99% for the second half of the year and rental yield to improve slightly as well reflecting the return to revenue service of those aircraft during the second half.
<br>Total revenues for the second quarter were 148.8 million up 18.7 million or 14% year-over-year.
This increase reflects higher lease rental revenue of 15.2 million maintenance revenue increases of 1.3 million and lower lease incentive amortization of 1.9 million.
During the second quarter we early terminated a lease related to one Boeing model 737-400 aircraft and recorded maintenance revenue and reversed lease incentive amortization totaling 3.1 million as well as recorded an impairment charge of 5.2 million for a net pre-tax impact of about 2.1 million.
EBITDA for the second quarter was 142.3 million up 23.2 million for the second quarter of 2010 reflecting higher lease rental revenue and maintenance revenue totaling 16.5 million compared to Q2 ’10.
The increase in EBITDA also includes a gain on sale of 10.3 million from the sale of 1 A-330 200 aircraft.
The impact of these items was partially offset by the impairment charge of 5.2 million.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation and amortization for the quarter was 82.2 million a year-over-year increase of 2.4 million.
This is due primarily toh the increase in lease rental revenue of 16.5 million partially offset by an increase in adjusted interest expense of 9.3 million and the 5.2 million impairment charge discussed earlier.
Adjusted net income from the quarter was 20.6 million up 0.1 million year-over-year reflecting the increase in total revenue of 18.7 partially offset by increases of 4.2 million in depreciation 9.3 million in adjusted interest expense and the $5.2 million impairment charge.
Depreciation expense for Q2 was 58.6 million and at the end of the quarter our monthly run rate deprecation was around 19.6 million.
Reported interest net for the quarter was 55.9 million which was higher by 15.7 million from the prior year and reflects a number of items in the quarter related to the sale of one A-330 aircraft which totaled about 7.5 million.
The 7.5 million that’s comprised of lower termination fees of 3.2 million a non-cash write-off of deferred financing fees of 2.5 million and a non-cash accelerated write-off of deferred hedge losses totaling 1.8 million.
<br>The balance of the increase in interest expenses was due to higher weighted average debt outstanding of 2.7 billion during the quarter compared to the prior year of 2.4 billion and slightly higher overall weighted average interest cost.
In Q2 2011 our tax provision was in an effective rate of about 6.2% and reflects the revenue and income sourcing mix in the portfolio during the year.
For the full-year of 2011 we expect the effective rate to be in the 6 to 8% range.
At quarter end our annualized lease rental run rate for the portfolio was about $566 million up which a little more than 95 million was being generated from 20 aircraft we own outright without any financing related incumbrance.
Looking ahead to Q3 2011 we expect annualized lease rental revenue run rate at the end of the third quarter to be about $591 million.
This figure reflects the combined effects of our July A-330 deliveries as well as four of the aircraft off lease in the second quarter which have returned to revenue service and acquisitions that we’ve closed to date.
In the third quarter we have no scheduled lease transitions and so we would not expect to record any maintenance revenue during the third quarter of 2011.
Our amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives is expected to range between 4 and 6 million during the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with 184 million of unrestricted operating cash 185 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
With a strong balance sheet and steady cash flows and access to capital we’re in an excellent position to support the growth initiatives take advantage of attractive investment opportunities all rewarding shareholders through our recent 25% increase to our quarterly dividend and an increase in the authorized amount for our stock repurchase program.
As we previously discussed we believe that repurchasing our stock at current levels represents a very attractive use of our capital and as such our board authorized an increase to our stock repurchase program by $30 million.
Through July we’ve purchased 4.9 million shares representing approximately 6.2% of the shares outstanding at year-end 2010 at an average cost of $12.21 per share for an aggregate investment of 60 million.
The recent increase of 30 in availability gives us a total program size of 90 million between investments made to date and the additional authorization.
<br>At the end of the quarter we had 2.7 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of approximately 2.5 billion which is 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.6 to 1 at quarter end.
And we are in compliance with all relevant debt conveyance and test.
During July we took delivery of two new A-330 aircraft one in passenger configuration on lease to South African Airways and one in freighter configuration on lease to an affiliate of the Asia A Group.
Both deliveries were financial 12 year ECA supported terms loans with fixed interest rates ranging from 3 to 3.1%.
To conclude the business continues to perform very well and the contribution from our second half 2010 acquisition along with the Airbus program deliveries during the first half ’11 are now beginning to be realized.
With strong liquidity position and proven access to capital combined with the expected cash flow performance from our existing portfolio we expect to continue generating organic growth and earnings in the portfolio for the balance of 2011.
<br>With that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Baker with JPMorgan Hey Ron good morning.
Morning.
Just a question – first question I’m wondering if you took a look at Aero Turbine or the FLY portfolio that it turns out they’re buying.
I’m not going to comment on any specific things Jamie but we try really hard to be in the mix of everything that is out there.
And that is something we have always strived to do and always expect to do.
I would say in general I was surprised up until this point at how little M&amp;A activity has taken place which is why we have always focused also on the aircraft-by-aircraft approach we’ve taken and in that vain I’d note that since our founding we have done business-we’ve originated deals from 68 different transactions with 57 different counter parties so it’s good to generate the base hits.
We try to look at the multiple base hits as well and I think between the two things we could generate some pretty good growth.
I guess that is a pretty good segue into the second question which is if the core business is as attractive as you say and I’m not challenging you on that point and if there are future potential deals like this why precisely is it that you are increasing your dividend and returning capital to shareholders? It’s a balancing act.
I think the stock in our view is really undervalued.
Stock buyback makes sense but as we’ll demonstrate I think in the coming months some of the investments that we’ve put on the books recently are extremely accretive.
I think we will be able to generate some attractive returns from those and as far as the dividend approach goes we were formed as a dividend paying company that’s kind of the philosophy that we continue to spouse that’s what our board is thinking about.
I think over the long term eventually people will value that.
You can’t change your dividend policy every quarter and expect people to give you credit for that.
That’s certainly true.
Okay I appreciate the color Ron.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets  Good morning thanks for taking my question.
First question involves lease rates.
You mentioned you have 24 aircraft with leases expiring in 2012 and given the current taste of lease rate increases do you see lease rates coming down on those aircraft as they get released or do you think you’ll be relatively flat? It’s a little early to be dialing in a specific number for you for 2012 Scott but I think it is important to understand what the reference point is in the first place.
As aircraft get older our expectation and I think the reality is that rates go down.
So I like to think of it in a real simple way of for every year or so you’ll see a 5% decrease in rental rates so with an average lease term of around five years good same-store comparison starting point is about 25%.
Now you’ve got all sorts of cyclical effects and a lot of noise around that but I think probably a reference point you ought to think about when you look at us and our peers.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
You mentioned capital management being a key part of the business story are there any comments on the debt that limit the ability to manage capital either through dividend or buy back? No.
The only covenant we have in our high yield indenture has a restricted payment baskets that could potentially limit buybacks over time but it’s a basket that grows with net income overtime less dividends.
So it’s something we are conscious of and keep in mind but it hasn’t limited what we’ve done or what we intend to do in the near term with respect to dividends or buy backs.
Yeah Scott the other thing we have to think about though is we have several constituents.
Obviously shareholders count.
If we go-take in to extreme – if we do a very huge buy back or a huge dividend declaration that could have an impact on the credit rating agency review of our company.
So it’s a matter of making sure that we are balancing access to capital in several different channels.
Okay fair enough.
Then I guess more on the capital management but stock price is obviously very cheap relative to the book value and buying back stock here is highly accretive to book and EPS but how can you I guess you mentioned before you can’t change your dividend policy every quarter.
But in terms of looking at aircraft and where aircraft returns are how do you balance the buyback idea?  You have the goal of I think a billion dollars’ worth of aircraft being put on the books but how do you balance the returns you generate from buying new aircraft versus the buyback which to me on an adjusted basis it seems like it would be hard to beat a buy back at this level.
It’s a judgment call and as I’ve said before there are some practical limitations about how much you can do in the way of buybacks but I think as we might demonstrate over the coming quarters we’ll have some run rate economics that are attractive on the acquisitions we make.
I think asset sales that you might look to down the road might be pretty compelling so there is a certain attraction – a huge attraction-in terms of the buy back but I think the acquisitions we’ve put on in the last year are really really positive.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you gentlemen.
Good morning.
Mike did you say that interest rate on the last two  d30’s was in the low 3’s? That’s correct.
So that’s a big step down from the prior and that’s just a function of the reference rate coming down? A combination of reference rate an [inaudible] particular lenders yes.
Okay and I want to go back to Scott’s question Ron about the 2012 lease – the re-leases.
You mentioned that you’ve extended at least five of the A330’s I think most of those are with one customer.
Using your rule of 5% are you implying something like a 40-50% decline in the prior lease rate? No.
I’m assuming there is an average five-year lease term so I’d say more like 25% is a good reference point.
Okay and that would be a decent estimate of what you restruct those A330’s at? I think that’s a good estimate of what we did as far as the overall portfolio goes.
There is a lot of noise when you look at individual aircraft deals.
Okay.
Also can you give us an update – back in April you sort of strongly suggested that you were looking at the unsecured debt market.
What are the terms looking like there and maybe size what kind of transaction you’re looking at? Our existing bonds continue to trade well.
The market has back up a little bit over the past month but the current indications are rates in the low 7’s which is as I said a little bit outside where we were four or six months ago but not dramatically and we would still consider that as a source of capital for funding acquisitions that we’re thinking of doing in the second half of the year.
Okay and one last one.
I was  a little surprised by the magnitude of the impairment charge you booked on the 37 classic I think you have maybe 15 or 16 more of those planes in your portfolio if those leases expire are we going to have sort of rolling impairment charges on these classics?  That just seems like a pretty big charge for one plane.
I think you have to look – you can’t look at the impairment charge in a vacuum you’ve got to look at it also against the maintenance revenue that offsets it.
The net number was around two first of all.
Secondly as far as the remaining classics in our portfolio each of them are situated a different way.
I think it’s important to note that we go through a fairly thorough review of our portfolio and if we think there’s some time bombs in there we have to address it.
We’ve got a lot of aircraft in different situations and in different places in terms of their values.
We have one aircraft for example that is about to turn 27 years old and that is coming off lease next year perhaps.
There is a chance it may stay on lease even longer.
I would be surprised to see anything in that kind of vain at all.
We also just sold earlier this week I should say a 737 500 for which we basically broke even so it’s really not fair to generalize.
Okay and one last one for Mike.
By the end of Q3 how much of reduction do you expect to see in the PDP balance on the balance sheet? I honestly don’t have that number in front of me Gary but I think we’ve said in the past that we basically pay about a third of the purchase price of the plane in PDP’s before a plane is delivered.
So we’ve had two delivered in July and one deliver in – will be delivering-in September so round numbers that’s about 30 million per plane.
Okay thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Gentlemen could you give us a little color about the four additional aircraft purchases that you have scheduled for the rest of the year just in terms of types of aircraft and timing on this? Sure a little bit.
We’ve previously announced the A-330’s and Mike has alluded to two we have coming the rest of the year.
We’ve got still to come another 747.
Maybe the best way to answer that Arren is not just in the context of the core but also in the context of what we have coming in general in this half a billion we are targeting for the second half.
We’ve consistently identified three different buckets as where we see there being relative value or places where we can in particular use the competitive advantages that we have.
One of them is in regards to the Freighter sector.
We have been in the program of buying 747’s and turning them in to Freighters.
Those are extremely attractive deals.
There is a limit to how many of those you can do but that is one of the aircraft that we have coming on board.
Then we have a mid-aged narrow bodied bucket.
I think in particular we’ve been focusing on the mid-size variance the A320’s and the 737 800s for the reasons I mentioned during the prepared remarks.
We see there being really great yields on these aircraft with a lot less down side than many of the other investments out there and a lot less competition.
The third bucket which is one that we haven’t delivered on yet but we are working really hard on it is these high quality wide bodies.
In some ways they are similar to the A330’s and that’s an asset type we’re interested in.
We also really like the triple 7 ERs.
We don’t see a replacement for those coming in maybe even this decade.
So when you think about cash yield minus depreciation and you compare that to other things out there plus the financing availability on these wide bodies we think these are pretty compelling ROE’s so I think you’ll see the second half pipeline both committed in what’s to come in a mix of those three.
I can’t tell you exactly where it depends on how deals come in.
Okay and then on your assets sale strategy is selling some of the new aircraft where do you expect to use the proceeds from the new dues?  [inaudible] and fund these new aircraft purchases or I guess you’ve kind of alluded to potentially using some toward additional buy backs.
Well cash if fudgable but I think that is a good way to look at it.
In many ways I was thinking about the use of the proceeds from the A330 sale toward funding our stock buyback program and I think that is an incredibly accretive combination but as far as our asset sales program goes as I’ve said during the remarks our initial focus and I emphasize initial was on the new aircraft for which we saw a huge recovery in terms of market demand.
I think you’ll also see us do other aircraft sales.
Sales of aircraft where we’ve bought the aircraft added value now we’re going to capitalize on it.
So you’ll see a little bit of that I think over the next few quarters.
So I think that also reflects the recover beyond brand new aircraft.
Okay then lastly the early termination in the 737 are you scrapping that aircraft or are you trying to release that? I don’t think this is a scrapper but we are exploring three different options.
One is sales one is releasing as a passenger and the other is releasing as a trader.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with KBW Thank you and good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I would just be curious at this point to get your perspective on how you are managing and thinking about your business vis a vis what’s going on with the global economy certainly the US economy also taking that in to account.
But if people are increasingly talking about the risk of a recession here and you have a global business which I think is a good thing but people have talked about slowing trade flows we’ve seen some sort of a slowdown in air traffic so how seriously are you viewing some of these risks if you look at the next year or two and is anything you are doing differently to position your business for weaker macroeconomic environment globally? Good question.
I think it’s important to emphasize just to kind of set the table here that our business is a function of GDP.
Air travel growth is a multiple historically.
It’s not a multiple of US GDP it’s a multiple of global GDP.
So things in the US are certainly weak and certain parts of the world are also weak but on balance the world economy is still growing at an okay rate.
As I mentioned during the remarks we’ve seen year to date growth of around 80% in the passenger part of the market which is pretty good.
It’s slowed down a little bit but we’re still in pretty positive territory.
We’ve done a couple of things in terms of de-risking if you will.
First of all from a lease place in perspective we’ve taken care of almost half of the net book value from next year’s roll off so from a revenue risk perspective we really think we’ve chopped that down.
In terms of the acquisition strategy we’ve taken less kind of spec risk in the way –what I mean by that is buying aircraft without a lease in place.
We’ll take a little bit more of a careful approach in terms of which aircraft we buy and who the customers will be and maybe nailing that down a little more solidly before we execute.
I don’t take the view that the economy is headed for the toilet.
I think it’s certainly slowed down but remember in our sector there is an awful lot of old aircraft replacement that needs to take place and even if your aircraft isn’t brand new if it’s a better technology you will find demand.
That’s why the classic aircraft there’s still a couple of thousands of those floating around are being cycled out and there’s still good opportunities for us to number one place an aircraft and number two make new investments.
Okay thanks for the perspective Ron.
It just seems like the secular growth story is certainly quite positive for the leasing industry and the aircraft industry.
You talk about the re-fleeting and the growth of emerging markets.
It’s just how will companies navigate the next two or three years of the significant slowing.
You talked a little bit about your asset sales strategy and you’re focusing more at least in the near term on newer aircraft then maybe you could sell some of the old aircraft.
But it sounds like this is an opportune time to sell as many aircraft as you can and try to do the opposite of what most others seem to be doing which is placing orders for buying new aircraft so it seems like you were doing a little bit of that in your strategy but I just wanted to flesh that out a little bit so your perspective is helpful.
I think of us as relative value investors okay.
In many ways like many of your customers.
In some cases the market runs up in terms of value for certain assets and in some cases the assets are undervalued.
I happen to think right now that newer assets particularly the narrow bodies are extremely overvalued.
I think the mid-aged aircraft are undervalued.
I think the end-of-life aircraft seem over valued to me.
That is the first point.
The second point is part of what we do is also buy add value and sell.
That’s one of the things that separates us from our competitors.
So the A-330 that we sold it was an acceleration of our orders.
We effectively did a sale lease back for [inaudible] during the financial crisis and that was an extremely value additives deal.
It provided [inaudible] with funding at a tough time and it provided us with a good deal we put the lease in place and harvested that gain.
There are other types of value add we’ll look to harvest some of those games too and redeploy the money attractively whether it’s through share buybacks dividends or other investments.
Okay that’s helpful and then just lastly in terms of the air cap and the sale of the Air Turbine business I know you wouldn’t specifically talk about if you looked at that transaction or not but as I understand you don’t currently possess those kind of MRO capabilities in house.
Is that something that you would also seek to do?  Their rationale was you have a relatively new fleet compared to [inaudible] so it made strategic sense to set it off but you tend to be more value conscious in I guess the types of stuff that you buy.
So the extent that you have an older fleet would it make sense for you guys to build that capability or buy it or try to expand in that direction at some point? Well I think the first thing I’d say to that Sameer is remember 92% of our fleet is current generation which means it’s a long way away from being parted out.
So that kind of capability is not an urgent need.
We’ve sold a few classics here and there over the last years but I don’t think that merits a flow oriented business like Air Turbine.
From a far it looks like [inaudible] can certainly generate a lot of flow for air turbine and that’s a good fit in that regard.
So I think that developing those capabilities is something we’ve looked at from time to time.
We’ll continue to look at-not necessarily from a defensive perspective but just in terms of attracting new business.
Terrific that’s all I had.
Thanks Ron.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Pickerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Hi Josh.
You mentioned a couple times today about seeing some opportunities in the wide-body space and the triple seven in particular.
Would you guys consider doing another new order directly with the manufacturers or is this more of a secondary market opportunity?  We look at everything all the time but I’ll say in general the time to get the manufacturers is when they’re hungry.
I don’t think any of the manufacturers are particularly hungry right now.
They’ve got order steams that are sold out for years to come.
It doesn’t seem to me like this is where there’s value.
And remember when you do a new order as we have you have to wait a few years for the airplanes number one.
So you’ve got a capital commitment for a number of years to come.
And you take the risk of funding right?  That’s – that might be a perfectly acceptable risk but you also need to be compensated for that in my view.
Another set of risks you take are who will your customers be and what will the economics on the deal be.
So it really is a speculative play.
Now if you’re compensated for that versus doing here-and-now deals where you know what the economics are going to be and how you’re going ot pay for it great.
I think it’s really hard to achieve that in the market today.
And don’t forget you have to make predelivery payments along the way to the manufacturers and that’s sort of a drag on cash.
And that’s one of the things that you know drove own our financial metrics last year.
And that’s one of the things that’s driving them up this year as we take delivery of aircraft.
So new orders are attractive on the surface in terms of having the “built-in growth” but you also have to happy living with those.
That makes sense.
And then you guys have talked a bunch today about how you’re seeing you know increased competition in the markets for new narrow bodies and how there’s lower returns in that market.
Are you seeing any of that in some of the new money coming into the space flowing out of that new narrow body market into some of the markets you guys have traditionally focused on like the cargo or the mid-life narrow bodies?  Are you seeing increased competition in that as well?  Yeah it’s creeping in.
I would say it’s a flood but it’s starting to creep in.
Just to use numbers I think of returns that – unleveraged returns on new narrow bodies right now in the 5 6 maybe if you’re lucky 7% territory and when you add on the traditional European bank debt which is what people do here you’re barely squeezing into the double digit ROEs if that.
Now that’s based on my subject view of what residuals are but that’s kind of the value set that we imply in terms of evaluating our opportunities.
I think of the unleveraged returns for these mid-aged narrow bodies as being in the double digits.
All right so a lot of guys that are frustrated by number one a lot of competition at very low batting average in terms of getting deals done are saying you know what I’m not going to bid on this new sale leaseback.
Instead I’m going to go buy an 8 10 12-year-old new generation narrow body and even if I can’t get that I’m still making the same total return.
I think of that as much better proposition and I think a lot of other people are agreeing now.
That’s great.
That was all I had.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Light with Citi.
Hey everyone.
On the impairments a comment they might give you seven would that offset higher maintenance revenue on that plane? Yeah.
We basically had about $3.1 million of maintenance revenue and lease incentive reversal to offset the 5.2.
So the net P&amp;L impact was about $2.1 million.
And would you say that’s par for the course for any aircraft particularly that generation if there is an impairment of say roughly half offset by the additional maintenance revenue you have which you won’t have to give back? I think it’s hard to sort of generalize it Andrew but I think as Ron tried to point out earlier you know the impairment in and of itself as a number we do not see as some indication of value of the classic fleet that we still own.
And what the accounting will be for any particular circumstance is going to depend upon the lease and where the lease is in its life if and when you get to that kind of a point.
Okay.
And just a final question.
On the A330 you sold to a competitor seeing I mean a nice kind of gross profit of 10 million or so but then you know large financing fees are offsetting that.
I mean I guess it all has to do with the [inaudible] financing you got for that plane.
How – I mean is there an optimal time in which to sell planes so you avoid most of those fees?  Well there’s a couple things.
There are a number of non-cash charges there.
Part of it was the ECACs that we paid in connection with this aircraft and that’s one of the – there’s nothing that’s completed for free.
When you do the ECA or the EM financings the interest rates are in today’s terms like 3%.
And that’s great but it’s an impediment those fees if you pay up front you can’t recover them when you sell the aircraft so that’s an impediment in terms of aircraft sales.
So that’s something that we’re thinking about going forward in terms of how our future delivers should be funded.
We have the commitments available in that respect but it’s sort of a balancing act.
But much of the rest of that Andrew were hedge rate costs and there’s a lot of non-cash costs that were I’d say 8330 hedging programmatic costs that were done years ago.
And I think of that as the sum cost and it doesn’t affect how we think of the incremental economics on keeping or selling.
Right.
So the key driver is really liquidity that the sales generate rather than necessarily the EPS impact?  Yeah I mean one of the things we do for each of our acquisitions is we say what’s the capital return?  Can we do better with that capital investing it today.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Ron now that Boeing has sort of laid it’s cards out on the table regarding a re-engine 737 we sort of have clarity for the most part I guess for the next 5 or 10 years in terms of what’s going on with – I think these major aircraft programs.
I mean maybe that’s triple 7 refresh gets moved up a little bit now that they’re going down this path et cetera.
And I’m just wondering what implications that might have for your strategy just across the major aircraft programs given the fact that Boeing has gone down the re-engineing route or maybe there’s no change to you strategy.
I’m just curious to your thoughts.
I think it absolute validates both in EO and the re-engine 737 validates our approach which is to focus on the early part of the product run of this technology.
It’s our view as a fundamental kind of investment matter that buying the last off the line is never a particularly good idea because you’ll need to get a great price to compensate for a shorter life.
Right?  Within a family of aircraft you’ll have some differences over time in terms of performance but they’re small and they tend to vary over the maintenance cycle within that generation.
The step change happens when there’s new technology like this NEO or the deploying equivalent.
And it’s a low-worn path in terms of you know when you look at the very end of the product life things don’t look as good in terms of performance.
Now I think what’s different this time is the extent of the install base of current technology aircraft.
It takes a long time for even the existing technology aircraft to be replaced.
If we go back and look at the classics Mark you’ve had aircraft that have been competing with the new technology now for well over a decade.
And yet you know between 25 and 30% are out of service meaning about 3/4s is still flying around.
Let’s project out to 2016 or so when people are saying they’re going to introduce a new aircraft.
We think the install based of A320s with current engines are going to be almost 6 000.
That means that the current product rates will take 10 12 years to replace those aircrafts assuming there’s zero growth.
It’s a little bit less in terms of the new generation aircraft but the same kind of timeframe.
So if you’re – let me give you a numerical example in that regard.
Let’s say I buy a 12-year-old A320.
Let’s say I’m buying it for 16 $17 million and I have a lease of I don’t know 250 a month for another 2 ½ 3 years and then I leave it again for another six years at 150.
I think that’s kind of representative of the market.
During those two lease terms which will expire well before the end of the decade I’ve well more than recovered my investment.
And that doesn’t count any part-out value.
I think that’s really safe business.
And it has a lot of value because that aircraft is still going to be in it’s early 20s and there’s still going to be very few of the NEOs and I think that’s a much better proposition than buying something in ’12 or ’13 or ’14 and really hoping on keeping several lease terms together in the face of a significant improvement in technology.
Great.
Thank you for the color.
Just a question for Mike.
I’m wondering if you can just update us on how you’re thinking about your liability management in there from a swaps perspective and hedging interest rates and so forth in light of the securitizations you know one moving to the full amortization another one perhaps down the road and just refresh my memory in terms of how those swaps match up or how you’ve locked in your floating rate exposure and how you’re thinking about that going forward.
Sure.
On the first securitization in the 06 field a swap is in place at roughly 5.5 and 3/4s through the middle of 2016.
So given that portfolio where it is and the asset pool we feel pretty good about that rate and it’s ability to take care of itself over time.
In the second deal which reaches it’s cash trap mode in the middle of 2012 the swap that’s in place today at about 5 ½% expires at that time.
So we’re evaluating a new swap strategy at today’s sort of historic low rates to put in place post mid-2012 in the context of what we could do to refinance the overall deal in its entirety.
So we’re looking at both of those options and haven’t concluded just yet which path we’re heading down.
Mark I think if you were to try to affect a swap in today’s interest rate levels you’d be looking at a rate less than 3% fixed.
Well yeah.
I guess what I’m getting at is on that second securitization you know are you contemplating just letting the swap expire and just floating for a while given how low rates are and the potential to maybe refinance that down the road as you move more towards – I guess that’s kind of a balancing act right?  If you feel like you’re going to fund yourself more with unsecured debt going foward and so forth you don’t necessarily want to lock in for a long term the interest rate on that second securitization given that you’re already locked in on the first one.
I’m just wondering how you’re thinking about it I guess.
Well the securitization requires us to hedge a certain amount of the expected notional on a go-forward basis.
So when we reach that fifth anniversary if we do not refinance that deal we will have to put some form of interest rate hedging in place for a forward-looking period under the terms of that securitization.
Yeah I think just fundamentally also Mark there’s – there’s been a few players over time that have taken an interest rate risk-barring strategy and sometimes it works out and sometimes it really doesn’t.
I think if you really wanted to do that you could go buy an interest rate hedge and our stock at the same time.
Almost all of our aircraft are fixed-rate leases.
Right?  So we tend not to take too much of a floating rate exposure as a philosophical matter to our funding base.
Okay.
That makes perfect sense.
And then last question Ron this one’s back to you.
I’m wondering how can we measure the Hazy effect on the business here now that Airlease is public?  I guess I’m wondering have you noticed is there anything anecdotally you can tell us about just your requests for meetings you know interest in this space that you’re seeing from the buy side?  Has there been a favorable sort of Hazy impact on Aircastle?  Look I think the fact that there’s another player in this space is a positive and if here’s another player on top of that that’s a positive too.
Our sector is in terms of market capital pretty small and it’s sort of a strange dynamic in the sense that most of the biggest clearers are not public and that’s in contrast to most the other modes.
Having more participants attracts more analysts coverage it attracts more investors and I think that’s all positive.
And I think the fundamental performance of the sector has also been pretty darn good and I think that also attracts investors and analysts in the like.
But have you noticed increasing requests for meetings or anything like that?  I think there’s been increase in investors for sure.
Whether it’s because Steve Hazy – it’s anybody’s guess.
We don’t ask them.
Okay.
Just wondering.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR.
Thanks for taking my follow up.
Just with you know the relatively large build out or additions you plan in the back half of the year I assume you’re talking to lenders right now and I’m wondering what you’re hearing from them given what’s going on in Europe and concerns about solvency of some of the banks in Europe typically they’ve been pretty large lenders in the space.
We are looking at a lot of different options and what we exactly do depends on what we exactly buy.
If we look to buy middle-aged narrow bodies current technology we’re not going to be funding those with a bank most likely.
That’s outside of their zone.
It’s one of the reasons we have a better return profile.
The buy market is still good as Mike said before.
The bank market is there.
I mean we’re as an attractive counterparty as anybody out there.
I think the issue is that the banks are wrestling with a number of the topics that you mentioned.
There’s capacity available today.
I don’t think there’s a deep pool of capital available and I’m concerned about where that goes down the road.
That really underscores why we think it’s such a competitive advantage to have the bond market access.
Most of our standalone peers – standalone leasing companies don’t do that.
They don’t have a credit rating they don’t have the track record.
It will be much more difficult for them to do what we’ve done from a capital structure standpoint.
Okay thanks very much.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Tuckman with Golden Trees.
Hi guys.
Just wondering if you’ve seen any of the pre-911 securitization deals that are in wind down or liquidation mode if you’ve seen an increased offering in aircraft for sale?  Yes.
In a word.
Thank you.
The struggle with those Adam is they’re really complicated and they need to kind of deal with a bunch of concentration limits.
Yes.
And there have been some deals where there’s been efforts to get approvals to modify those or to soften those.
And I think those are probably the prudent things to do from a portfolio management perspective but yeah that’s one of the things we’ve seen as an interesting opportunity set.
Yep okay thank you guys.
Sure.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today and I look forward to talking with you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.