And we will go next to Vikram Malhotra of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Just following up on that the M&amp;A question just trying to understand obviously you have the cost of capital if were to just sort of prioritize what do you do with this cost of capital from here? If we look past at least historically you've created obviously premiums to the broader REIT group but that premium has not remained there for a considerable amount of time so it seems like there's a window and I'm just trying to understand what if you were to prioritize what you do with it? If you could walk us through that it would be helpful.
Yes well we have typically traded at a premium to the sector.
The premium widens during periods of market volatility and uncertainty like we're seeing today.
But for the vast majority of our history we've traded at the highest multiple in the sector.
As we look at what we may do with the capital advantages from a cost perspective that we have today we're really -- we want to say consistent with our investment strategies.
So on the retail front it's looking for service oriented non-discretionary low price point businesses that have good real estate and rents that makes sense structures that makes sense.
So we think those assets and property types and tenants are better equipped to work through a variety of economic cycles and to compete with e-commerce.
And then on the investor side it's high-quality real estate leased to Fortune 1000 companies with investment grade credit ratings so those are as the buckets we're really focused on.
What we don't want to do is go out and wantonly use a lot of capital to buy properties that aren't consistent with the assets that have worked for the Company over the long-term.
So we don't feel pressured to buy inferior assets at times where a multiple advantage is very significant.
Okay and then just if you were say hypothetically there were two portfolios of public portfolio a public Company and a larger private portfolio somewhat similar return price files similar properties.
How do you think about those two are there factors that dry you towards one or the other at this point and would you be considering either of them even if sort of your leverage ticks up they are not leverage neutral? Well we love to do transactions on a leverage neutral basis and that's what we've done in the past.
Whether it be on the private side or be entity level side.
So really what's going to drive which opportunities we pursue is going to be opportunities that result in the most value for the shareholders of our Company.
That's how we're going to look at it.
We have shown in the past that we can execute public transactions entity level transactions or large portfolio transactions.
And we do have some leverage capacity today.
As you heard that at our lowest leverage levels in the last ten years so we have taken advantage of the capital markets to really strengthen and solidify the balance sheet.
So we're very well positioned to grow today where we could take on a bit more leverage than we have today.
Our long-term target has been two thirds equity one third debt.
As you know we're inside of that today.
John to those comments obviously attractive cost of equity here but how do you think or Paul how do you think about your cost of debt here? How has it changed over the past couple months? Do you have any visibility where you could issue long-term debt today? Ten years -- This is John here.
Ten year debt is in the low 4s 4.10% 4.20%.
Spreads have capped out as rates have declined so there hasn't been a big pickup there Paul anything? The bandwidth all in has really stayed in the 4% to 4.2% range in spite of wherever the Treasury or spreads have moved.
Okay in terms of acquisitions this year has the spread between investment grade and below investment grade shifted at all given the macro volatility? Or would you say that it is still on a risk adjusted basis more attractive to be going after the investment-grade tenants? Well I mean we're going to continue -- the spreads really haven't changed the relationship of those spreads.
We'll pursue opportunities in both sectors the ones that meet our investment parameters and make the most sense for us.
On the investment-grade side you're seeing some fairly aggressive pricing as Sumit alluded to earlier around the 5% area on the really higher-quality product.
The non-investment grade you're still seeing right around 6% on the higher-quality product.
That's not much different than where we were at the end of last year.
Cap rates have remained stable but the ranges on investment-grade go up to as high as the high six's and on non-investment grade they go up to as high as 8%.
The spreads are better today from an investment standpoint given our cost of capital.
So for the year last year we had investment spreads of 185 basis points on about the $1.3 billion that we acquired.
In the fourth quarter that was more like 236 basis points on the $204 million we acquired.
Today they're running in excess of 250 basis points.
So the margins have never been better than they are now on the acquisitions front.
So we'll be more driven by the opportunities in both the non-investment grade and investment-grade sectors and we'll react to those versus having sort of a fixed percentage of what we want to buy each.
That's consistent with how we've always done it.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
So just for those tenants that provide unit level financials is there anything in those results that suggest a change in economic activity or are there geographies that are doing better than others or anything like that? No and we are constantly looking at that.
The tenant base is in excellent shape.
There's some non-material issues as there always are that are factored into our guidance.
And so right now we feel good about the tenant base and their health and condition.
Sure.
And then as it pertains to acquisitions are there any industries that you are looking to invest in or not invest in? And then has there been any change in sort of the buyer or seller pools? No significant changes on the buyer seller pool and the industries are consistent with the ones that we're in.
So if you look at the 47 industries we are in today with very few exceptions they're going to align with in those industries.
We want to stay away from discretionary industries and businesses.
It looks like in the fourth quarter according to the supplemental that you guys bought 10 Rite-Aids.
Are those basically straight down the middle sort of normal ten year plus leases or have you guys started to look more opportunistically at some of the Rite Aid locations or even Walgreens locations that have five years or less in it to possibly to do a re-tenanting? That was a sale leaseback transaction we did directly with Rite Aid who is an existing tenant of ours and it was done before the Walgreens announcement so it worked out very well for us.
So those weren't one off transactions.
It was just a fortuitous timing I would say in terms of when the transaction was executed.
Is there the capability to do anything on an opportunistic basis with short-term lease Rite Aids or even Walgreens where the current owner might be across the Street from something else from one or the other locations might getting worried that they are going to close down on the location where you guys can buy it at an attractive rate and repurpose it to some other tenant? If that winds up… That is not a big emphasis of our business.
We pay attention to those opportunities but we are really looking for assets with long lease terms that are well positioned competitively and we're not going to have any sort of near-term issues for.
If we saw something incredibly compelling we would certainly take a look at it where we had a kind of tenant in our back pocket and we knew we were going to sign a 20 year lease on favourable terms on a building that was going to become vacant or vacant we would certainly look at that.
We've done that in the past.
Is not a major component of our business but we have done that in the past.
And will go next to Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Hey John good afternoon.
Hey Ross.
It sounds like from some of your earlier comments regarding acquisitions and in particular M&amp;A it sounds like you are more open to M&amp;A today than you have been in the recent past.
Do you think that's a fair characterization? I would say given the multiple advantage we have relative to the other 13 14 companies in the sector that it's a bit more interesting today.
But at the same time I would say that we want to end up with assets that are consistent with our investment philosophy.
So we're not signaling that we go out there just to do a large transaction take on assets that we couldn't we'd consider to be of risk in the intermediate to long-term.
Okay.
And you and I have talked about this topic before but how do you think about net asset value or property value versus investment spread? So even if you theoretically could buy another public player at a multiple that would be accreted to your FFO what if that meant paying a reasonably high I don't know what the right word is premium to the actual value of the assets when you know you can go into the private market all day long and pay actual NAV or property value? How do you balance that thinking? We want to be paying NAV whether we're buying in the private market or whether we're buying in the public market.
There would have to be something incredibly compelling about the opportunity strategically for us to do that but we're focused both on spreads and accretion as well as the value of the assets.
So we would not want to do anything that would be NAV dilutive.
And will go next to Amit Nihalani of Oppenheimer.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you guys comment on the difference in cap rates for industrial versus retail? Yes Sumit industrial versus retail? We haven't really seen much of a movement in cap rates for the type of industrial assets that we pursue which is Fortune 1000 clients with ten plus years.
In terms of the cost you're paying right around that $65 to $75 to $80 per square feet for brand new concrete tilt up type of buildings and that seems to still be the case today.
With retail as depending on the product type it ranges from anywhere between 150 to 250 square feet all the way up to 400 450 for a C store.
So and again with regards to pricing despite all the volatility that we're seeing in the market we have not seen cap rates move in one direction or the other.
They stayed fairly steady for both those products I'd say over the last six to nine months.
Got it and just bigger picture any changes to the watch list or anything else we should be aware of on that front? No.
The watch list is down to 1% of revenues which is the lowest it's been in the last five years.
Again the portfolio is in good health.
There are no material issues for us.
Hello guys.
Just a quick question for me.
What do you see as being the right size for realty income in terms of assets? The right size? In terms of assets? I don't think there is necessarily a right size but we will continue to grow the Company consistent with our investments strategies and take advantage of the opportunities out there in what is a vast marketplace.
So we do not have a target in terms of size.
It's really more about delivering earnings growth and dividend growth and total shareholder return.
All right.
Sure.
In terms of do you think that there would be anything more attractive about just having $25 billion worth of assets instead of having call it $18 billion worth of assets? No.
I don't think so.
This is a very scalable business.
When you look at our EBITDA margin that's nearly 94% it's sector leading.
We're delivering more of our revenues to our shareholders than the rest of the sector.
Our G&amp;A margin of 5% very efficient.
With size and scale comes increased efficiencies which really lead to I think a competitive advantage based on size.
But we wouldn't grow just to grow we would grow to create earnings growth and dividend growth with assets consistent with our investment philosophy.
The deal flow you're seeing continues to be pretty steady and robust.
Can you provide what the mix is maybe just share what the percentages if you look at where the opportunities came from investment opportunities came from last year whether they are marketed details existing relationships or pension funds even bringing you opportunities? Sure.
So Sumit do you want to take that? Yes sure.
So Todd in terms of the portfolio and one-off mix I would say it's about 25% of what we sourced last year versus even in 2015 was about the same.
25% is one off 75% portfolio deals.
So when you start to focus then on the portfolio deals what we've started to notice is a lot more companies that were sort of hesitant in years past to even engage in conversations dealing with sale lease backs became far more open to those types of conversations and in fact some of them even resulted in transactions that we were involved in in last year.
Whereas in 2014 most of the product that we saw were from companies that were very familiar with the sale leaseback market and most of the volume driven were by either other sellers of large portfolios both private and public and/or companies that had done sale-leasebacks in the past.
So the only real change in terms of the product mix I would say that we saw was new entrants coming in that had not engaged in conversations in years past.
But outside of that one-off versus portfolio the mix is about the same.
It was 26% in 2014 and 25% in 2015.
So I'd say the mix is about the same.
Is it more compelling Sumit just because of pricing -- commercial real estate prices have been so good people are at least considering it now? I would say pricing is definitely one piece of it but I would also say that there has been a fair amount of external pressures by investors etcetera rattling the cages and talking about what is it that a particular operating company should focus on.
The debt markets have helped.
The fact that our cap rates have compressed have helped but I think the single biggest issue has always the single biggest driver in my mind has been some of the investors talking about monetizing real estate and getting back to the core business.
I think that has been the single biggest factor.
So Sumit are you sort of saying that -- and John that the -- remember when we had all these retailers that wanted to do spins spins of their real estate and that is sort of not happening now.
The government has kind of shut that down so is that group of potential sale-leaseback guys coming to? Are you seeing more of that those pre-spin guys that can't do the spins anymore? Yes I think that was actually favorable news to the net lease industry and companies like ours to the extent they want to monetize their real estate they're going to be talking to us.
I do think to add on to what Sumit was saying is that these companies that have large real estate holdings that are not real estate companies are under pressure to increase their own returns on investment and carrying that real estate when it could be sold to someone like us or someone in our sector can certainly enhance their return on investment so there is that pressure and we're seeing that.
The recent news with regard to the ability to do these spins is certainly a net positive to the sector.
Okay good thank you.
And then it's interesting because you guys probably don't sit and look at the stock market all day long like a bunch of us on the phone do but pretty much the only thing green on my screen is you guys.
That means the market is worried about something and I'm curious how you guys monitor for bankruptcies? I mean what's the chance among your tenant base that you can have a surprise in there and how close are you in touch do you think with the health of each of these retailers? So we have a -- as you know you've covered us for a long time as you know Rich we have our own internal credit and research team and we are constantly analyzing and scouring the portfolio in terms of credit and industry trends as well.
Currently our watch list is 1%.
Tenants that we have potential credit issues with are just under 6% of the entire portfolio but most of that doesn't make it on to the watchlist because it's really good real estate and we'd like to have it back and we think there's upside there.
So in terms of our coverages they've held steady right around 2.6 2.7 we're not anticipating any sort of a tenant -- material tenant the issues.
So we to track that very closely and don't see anything there.
Thank you good afternoon.
John given your comments on M&amp;A I think you said that public debt the REITs would have to have as that are consistent with your investment philosophy.
How many REITs out there do you think have such assets? Dan you are cutting out.
Sorry.
Can you hear me now better? Yes.
Sorry about that.
Given that you said that as you look at some public to public M&amp;A that another Company would have to have assets that are consistent with your investment philosophy.
I was just kind of curious how many REITs are out there that you think have assets that are consistent with your investment philosophy? There are a number of them.
Are there any that are completely pure? Maybe one or two but in terms of the REITs that have assets that are consistent with what we're looking for and have a material amount of them maybe they represent 50% or more.
There are a lot of companies out there.
I then just kind of curious on the casual dining front.
It's been a sector that you guys have steered clear of since the last recession was just kind of curious your appetite there.
Just going back to Rich's question given the inability of these REIT conversions to happen there's a lot of restaurants out there that that still own a lot of their own real estate so just kind of curious your thoughts there? Yes so right now casual dining for us is about 3.5% of our overall revenues and some of the stumbles the Company has made in the past have been related to casual dining.
And we've learned what we want on that front and so we have a fairly high bar in terms of what we would consider there.
We want operating concepts that are stable to growing.
We want box sizes that if we ever get them back are of the size that we can be more easily re-let.
We want market rents.
We want something close to replacement cost as well and we want coverages that are in excess of what our portfolio averages somewhere around three times.
So if we find those types of opportunities and of course the real estate needs to be attractive as well we'll pursue them.
So the fact that we've not done many of them is more a function of quality and structure of some of the transactions that have been done versus us saying we won't look at casual dining because we will look at casual dining.
But the parameters around what we will invest in our fairly tight.
First question for me you guys mentioned the watchlist remains low and hasn't really changed much.
But can you maybe just highlight what the themes are as you think about the planned dispositions for this year? And could we see some shift maybe towards some more occupied versus vacant properties? And then just as it relates to that issue going back to Rich's question could some of the dispositions be maybe in that pool of tenants that aren't necessarily on the watchlist but maybe in lower quality given some of the economic concerns other? Yes I mean on the dispositions front I think in terms of what would be selling it will look similar to what it looked like in 2015 maybe a bit more occupied than vacant.
We had more vacant than we typically have.
And the types of properties on the dispositions front are casual dining childcare older generation non-discretionary -- I'm sorry discretionary tenants in theory or real estate locations perhaps with credit issues.
Or they are higher quality properties but we're looking to reduce our exposure to certain tenant or to a certain sector.
So on the sales front I think you'll see a little more occupied then vacant in terms of the ratio and we're looking to sell 50 million to 75 million this year and that's incorporated into our guidance.
I guess along those lines just as far as how does your economic outlook maybe factor into that at all? I think last year there was some acceleration in your disposition activity.
Is there anything from a broader economic perspective that might again cause you to accelerate or want to jettison some more some of that exposure that you highlighted that you are relatively more concerned about? No again when you look at the size of the watch list and it's in your 1% it's fairly small.
So possibly we've had I think our most active year on the dispositions front was about $135 million and we've been as low as 50 million 60 million.
We're kind of thinking 50 million to 75 million but we remain the right to be flexible there.
We certainly did factor in macroeconomic conditions but it's really that then taken down to the micro level and does it make sense for the reasons I went through to sell an asset or not.
And this concludes the question and answer portion of Realty income's conference call.
I will now turn the call over to John Case for concluding remarks.
Okay thank you very much Cassandra.
Thanks everyone for joining us and we look forward to seeing you at the conferences coming up and everyone have a good afternoon.
Take care.
Bye.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!