Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that this call is being recorded.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada and from outside of the U.S.
and Canada 719-457-0820.
The replay pass code for the call is 6107583.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I will direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome to the call.
In my prepared comments I’ll discuss the business environment Aircastle’s performance during the third quarter of 2013 and the company’s future plans.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then address Aircastle’s financial results and also speak about our annual fleet review.
We’ll then open the call to questions.
Aircastle’s operating results in Q3 2013 were very strong.
During the quarter we achieved 100% fleet utilization and all of our aircraft remain on lease.
We also continue to achieve strong rental yields.
For Q3 it was 13.7% on an annualized basis.
In addition we made excellent progress in securing lease extensions our new releases for our aircraft coming off-lease.
As a result of all this Aircastle is a very strong and the company recorded a cash return on equity of 13% over the last 12 months.
Our investment activity this year and during the quarter has been excellent.
Today Aircastle completed or secured a total of $1.5 billion in aircraft investments for 2013 including $525 million closed during the third quarter.
And we expect to close nearly $0.5 billion of new business during the fourth quarter.
We have also gotten off to a good start for 2014 having secured an additional $210 million in investments which we expect to close during the first quarter.
The company is deploying the capital raise for the shares held in Marubeni effectively and these investments should enhance our future earnings power and cash flow significantly.
I am pleased to announce our Board authorized an increase in the dividend of $0.20 per share for payment during the fourth quarter.
This is a 21% increase and it’s also double the rate from three years ago.
This increase is consistent with our policy of sharing with shareholders growth in the company’s sustainable earnings and in making such announcements during our third quarter earnings calls.
As I will discuss in greater detail shortly we are benefiting from industry conditions that are generally strong with the notable exception of the airfreight sector.
Air cargo demand continues to remain flat while capacity from dedicated freighters and from belly space and passenger aircraft continues to grow.
The cumulative effect of diverging supply and demand trends for the past two years has manifested itself in a glut of aircraft which has become increasingly visible over the course of this year.
So our aircrafts are all currently on lease in conjunction with our annual fleet review we wrote down the book values of the six 747-400 converted freighters we have on short-term leases.
These six aircrafts come off lease over the course of next year.
Our other four 747-400 converted freighters are all on long-term leases with strong customers and the cash flows from these leases support their carrying values.
Beyond the freight sector our outlook for Aircastle fleet remains very good.
This reflects very good asset management as we have successfully been implementing our sales program for older aircraft and it also evidences generally improving rental levels.
Our overall outlook is quite positive.
We are committed to our strategy of remaining a disciplined value driven investor.
I am pleased with the way we have been able to evolve our capital structure so that provides us with the flexibility of pursuing our investment strategy effectively in doing so we have developed strong access to capital to several different channels.
I am also very excited to have two large very long-term minded international diverse shareholders with Marubeni and Ontario Teachers.
We are a better company with them on board.
And I believe they will allow us to better capture the considerable value our platform offers.
Turning to the business environment as I mentioned earlier we believe industry conditions remain strong.
According to the most recent international Air Transport Association statistics this came out this morning global passenger traffic is up 5% through September of this year.
Load factors remain exceptionally high averaging 80%.
This means the industry is operating at pretty close to full capacity which is quite positive given the relatively slow world economic growth rate.
Industry profit margins remain very thin but are improving.
The most recent IATA forecast calls for $11.7 billion of net profits in 2013 for the world’s airlines.
That’s up from $7.4 billion last year the forecast for next years for profit to rise to $16.4 billion.
Now this sounds good the EBIT margin entailed by this forecast is only 4%.
Given these thin margins and the capital intensive the airline business we continue to see growing aircraft financing opportunities for lessors as airlines seat renewal and growth programs progresses.
Consistent with my earlier comments the latest air cargo statistics from IATA show continued weakness in demand with global freight ton kilometers increasing only 0.5% year-to-date through September.
The average load factor dropped less than 45%.
While many industry observers including IATA have for some time now called for pickup in demand we believe the only thing we can expect reliably is for supply to continue to increase.
Turning to the leasing market we are seeing rentals continued to increase modestly across the aircraft types benefiting from tightening near-term supply as evidenced by declining storage levels for most current generation aircraft the.
The narrow bodies A-320 rentals have seen greater improvement due both to improved demand and from the resolution of delivery overhang at several large lessors.
The rental gap between A-320s and 737-800s is narrowing but still remains substantial by historic standards.
For wide-bodies leasing demand remains stable and so do rental levels.
We are seeing Airbus pushing new A-330s very hard against Boeing’s new 787-9.
For missions of 2000 to 4000 nautical miles which constitute the vast majority of A-330 routes the A-330 is very cost competitive given the high capital costs of the 787.
Debt markets are strong.
The aviation bank market is rebounding lower margins and more favorable amortization profiles are available as more banks are prepared to take balloon risk exposure against aircraft value at the end of the loan.
The U.S.
debt capital markets have stabilize after a period of volatility driven by concerns about the direction that Fed will take regarding its bond purchase program.
And even the asset-backed securities market is showing signs of new life with one aircraft deal and one aircraft engine deal getting done recently.
Turning to our performance operating and finance lease rental revenue grew modestly to $165.3 million during the third quarter I think you will see a bigger pickup back to the next quarter to that as the effect of our recent acquisitions will become felt.
Cash flow from operations with finance lease collections increased 4.2% over last 12 months and 12 months cash ROE was 13%.
For the quarter we had adjusted net loss of $69.1 million after taking into account a non-cash pretax $97.6 million impairment arising from our fleet review.
Excluding the impairment charge our adjusted net income would be $26.5 million or $0.34 per share.
As I mentioned our operational performance is very good with excellent fleet utilization and increasing rental yield.
We have made very good progress in addressing our aircraft coming off lease over the next year or so.
For 2013 we are basically done with only two low-value 767-300 ERs left to sell and we expect to sell these roughly on a breakeven basis.
When we spoke to you about the 2014 lease roll off during our second quarter call we had 34 aircrafts to address.
At this point we are down to 23.
These represent about 8.8% of total net book value of our fleet.
10 of these 23 aircrafts are likely to be end of life sales or part outs and they account for 2% of our fleet net book value.
We are making very good progress on the rest of our 2014 placements 747-400 freighters are the biggest challenge with three coming off lease in each half of the year.
We believe we have a good chance of extending some of the freighter leases and we have noticed historic success in keeping our fleet deployed.
The aircraft sales including part out dispositions have played an important role with Aircastle this year.
So far we have sold 15 aircrafts for gross proceeds of $285 million and generated a gain of $25.6 million.
Three of the aircrafts sold were relatively new A-330 freighters the other 12 had a weighted average age of 18 years.
During Q3 we sold two 767-300 ERs and two 757s resulting in a net gain on sale of $3.1 million.
We believe that effectively managing the disposition of mid-age and older aircraft is one of our strong suits and that it sets us apart from other large leasing companies.
Turning to new investments we closed $980 million in acquisitions through the end of Q3 for 2013.
During the third quarter we closed $525 million.
We have an additional $480 million committed to close during the back half of this quarter and as mentioned before $210 million committed for the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to remain disciplined and focused on achieving incremental economic ROEs of at least 15%.
Our track record of being able to move quickly and of being a reliable counterparty allowed us to win several deals even when we aren’t the highest bidder.
Consistent with our acquisitions over the past two years roughly two-thirds of our acquisitions this year’s have been less than five years old.
Most of these have involved wide-bodies where we are seeing good relative values particularly when you factor in the effective attractive bank loan terms on ROEs.
Mid-age aircraft investments have generated good returns for us and we will continue to play an important role in our investment mix.
While deals flows still remains low by pre-financial crisis standards for older aircraft we anticipate this will improve over the next several quarters as more airlines look for fleet transition deals and more purchase opportunities arise from lessors.
Our investment and sales programs have had to combine the fact of reshaping our portfolio.
At the end of the third quarter new technology wide-body such as the A-330 and the 777 ERs accounted for 41% of our fleet net book value.
Most of these are on long-term leases with strong customers.
Current generation narrow-bodies account for about 30% of our fleet net book value though majority in terms of numbers of aircraft.
In this regard we are continuing to focus our investments on models built during the early to middle part of the production run because we see better value and low residual value exposures.
We are in a strong competitive when it comes to investing in mid-age aircraft whereas the new narrow-body deals are ultra-competitive with un-levered returns for lessors that we believe are comparable to what their secured lenders will achieve.
Freighters now account for 20% of our fleet down from 31% at the beginning of 2012.
Finally older classic technology aircrafts are down to 6% of our portfolio mostly 757s and 767s.
These are also gradually exiting out of our fleet successfully.
Taking a step back this is an interesting time for aircraft investors given the large number of new aircraft programs underway.
After more than a decade without a new product introduction we are seeing new programs across all size categories.
We believe there will be significant opportunities for lessors both with respect to new aircraft models but also in helping airlines renew their fleets.
As we look ahead our team is focused intently on following through on the acquisition commitments we secured.
We believe these will be strong contributors to our cash flow and our profitability.
Even with all this activity I am excited about other opportunities developing in our deal pipeline.
As I said we continue to target economic ROEs of at least 15% and the level of deal flow remains good.
Although I would note that in certain parts of the market competition has picked up.
We have also made a lot of progress on our lease placement and aircraft disposition efforts.
We intend to continue executing successfully on our end-of-life asset disposition strategy.
We will also expanding our asset sales effort to capture price increases we are seeing in the market.
As always these placements will remain a priority for the company and we expect our fleet utilizations to remain at the high levels we have achieved consistently over time.
Over the past several years we have evolved Aircastle’s capital structure strategically so that it matches with our nimble value-driven investment approach.
We are looking to seize on attractive financing opportunities in the debt markets and more specifically we see good opportunities to back-lever some of our new wide-body acquisitions with banks.
We also remain interested in exploring further bond market opportunities both for refinancing and for new money deals.
We are also pleased with the funding flexibility we have built for ourselves particularly with our newly enlarged and enhanced unsecured revolver facility.
Marubeni and Ontario Teachers are excellent additions to our shareholder base and we are excited to have them with us.
We believe the internationalization of our shareholder base is a positive and it reflects the global nature of our business.
And we are looking forward to capturing the benefits of working together with them.
All-in-all we believe these factors will collectively help us drive cash ROEs and adjusted earnings per share higher.
We also remain committed to being a dividend paying company that shares increases in sustainable earnings to our shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
During the third quarter we positioned Aircastle to continue to increase cash flow from operations along with cash earnings.
The 12 months ended September 30 2013 our cash ROE was 13% compared with 11.8% for the year ended 2012.
With respect to third quarter results our operating and finance lease rental revenues were $165.3 million an increase of 1.4% primarily due to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions and sales over the last 12 months.
Total revenues were $170.1 million a decrease of 2.8% or 1.6% versus the prior year period primarily driven by lower other revenues versus last year’s third quarter.
In the third quarter of 2012 other revenues were enhanced by a $3.9 million early lease termination fee.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2013 was $169.2 million up 1.8% over the prior year’s quarter.
This increase was driven by higher operating and finance lease rental revenue of $2.2 million higher maintenance revenues of $2 million higher gains on sale of flight equipment of $3.1 million.
These improvements were partially offset by lower interest income of $1.3 million and lower other revenues of $2.8 million.
The gain on sale of flight equipment was related to a 767-300 ER that we sold during the quarter at a profit.
The decline in interest income was driven by an aircraft back debt investment acquired in March 2012 that was repaid in the first quarter of 2013.
Our adjusted net loss for the third quarter was $69.1 million or $0.88 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $37.5 million or $0.53 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
The year-over-year change is largely attributable to an increased impairment charges taking during the quarter versus last year a $2.1 million increase in depreciation and an increase in adjusted interest and other expenses of $6.6 million net.
Higher gains in the sale of flight equipment of $3.1 million an improvement in the tax provision of $2.3 million were partial offsets to this wider adjusted net loss in Q3 2013.
Excluding the non-cash impairment charge related to the annual fleet review adjusted net income was $26.5 million or $0.34 per diluted share.
During the third quarter we performed our annual recoverability assessment in conjunction with our fleet review whereby we reevaluate our business plan for each aircraft in our portfolio to determine the best course of action for maximizing its future cash flow.
As a result of this year’s review we determined that the estimated future cash flows in certain of our aircraft did not support their carrying values.
The total non-cash impairment charge related to our annual fleet review was $97.6 million.
On an after-tax basis this represented a $1.22 per share.
Excluding this charge our net income was $0.27 per share and adjusted net income was $0.34 per share.
Due to sluggish market demand increased supply and rising storage levels for large freighter aircraft we impaired six Boeing 747-400 converted freighter aircraft for a total of $88.6 million to mark these aircraft to their current market value.
This non-cash charge represented about 30% of the prior quarter’s carrying value for this aircraft.
The remaining four converted freighters in our fleet which were not impaired have remaining average lease term of 5.1 years with strong rental levels.
Also related to the annual fleet review we impaired one mid-aged 737-700 aircraft in the amount of $8.9 million which represented about 35% of its prior carrying value.
Distinct from the annual fleet review during the third quarter of 2013 we negotiated an early termination of one lease on one of our 767-300 ERs.
This transaction resulted in end of lease maintenance and other revenues of $12.9 million which is partially offset by $8.5 million of a transactional impairment charge.
As part of the annual fleet review and recoverability assessment we also assessed the useful life and residual value of each aircraft in the portfolio.
Accordingly for two MD11 freighter aircraft that passed our recoverability assessment we had shortened the economic expected lives to these aircraft from 35 years down to 25 years from their 1997 production date.
At the end of the third quarter our monitoring list of aircraft that we consider more susceptible to impairment charges consisted of 11 aircraft with a combined net book value of $208 million or roughly 4% of our fleet and net book value.
Although the monitoring list is an imperfect indicator it’s important to note that the carrying value of aircraft on this list has been trending downward as we have been growing the portfolio and actively managing it.
Looking back to the end of Q3 2011 this list consisted of 26 aircraft with a combined net book value of $388 million or 9% of our fleet NBV at that time.
As I said today’s list consists of 11 aircraft at about 4% of fleet net book value.
So over the last few years this list has come down quite a bit in the overall context of our business.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $57.8 million an increase of $3.7 million over the prior year a verbal non-cash hedge in effectiveness in deferred swap loss amortization offset $6.3 million of higher cash interest in Q3 2013 versus Q3 2012.
Our debt balance was $3.3 billion at the end of third quarter versus $3.1 billion for the previous year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter on a year-over-year basis increased $0.9 million due to higher personnel costs driven by increased headcount on a year-over-year basis.
Depreciation expense for the third quarter was $70.5 million versus $68.4 million for 2012.
This increase primarily relates to the growth in the fleet period over period.
The tax provision for the third quarter was a benefit of $600 000 and was primarily driven by a non-cash impairment charge.
At the end of the quarter we owned 161 aircraft with annualized lease rental run rate including finance leases of about $708 million of which $376 million was associated with our 80 unencumbered aircraft.
For the nine months ended September our cash flow from operations before working capital was up to $319.3 million or 4.4% compared to the prior period.
Our unencumbered aircraft had a net book value of approximately $2.7 billion or roughly 53% of the net book value of our total portfolio up from 44% at the end of 2012.
During the third quarter we acquired $525 million of aircraft bringing our year-to-date total to nearly $1 billion.
We also continued the managing the portfolio to enhance cash flow and cash earnings and in that regard we sold four aircrafts during the quarter and 15 aircrafts year-to-date.
Year-to-date gain on sale of approximately $26.5 million generated by gross proceeds of $285 million through the sale of those aircraft the $25.6 million year-to-date gains from sales compares to $3.1 million for the first nine months of 2012.
As we continue forward we will focus on cash flow based economics of these investments and reinvestment decisions.
We feel that this is the most appropriate way to create and maximize long-term shareholder value.
Turning to our capital structure in July we issued 12.3 million shares to Marubeni Corporation Japan for net proceeds of $205 million.
This additional equity represented 15.25% of Aircastle’s outstanding shares at issuance.
At the end of the third quarter shareholders’ equity stood at $1.6 billion versus $1.4 billion at year end.
Marubeni is the strong like-minded long-term partner for the company and they have continued to acquire additional Aircastle shares in the secondary market.
And currently own approximately 17.8%.
Under the terms of our shareholder agreement they can increase their ownership to 21% through July of 2016 and afterwards up to a maximum of 27.5% through July of 2023.
At the end of the third quarter our unrestricted cash balance totaled $238 million and we had restricted cash of $192 million.
We have $335 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our secured and unsecured borrowings totaled approximately $3.3 billion.
Our net debt up $3.1 billion is approximately 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
The ratio of secured debt to total debt at quarter end was 47% down from 59% at the end of Q3 2012.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 1.9 times and our net debt to total cap was 63%.
We are in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities at the end of the quarter.
And finally turning to a few of the selected elements of guidance we expect lease rental revenues of $168 million to $170 million and finance lease income of approximately $4 million.
Maintenance revenues are estimated to be $4 million to $5 million amortization of net lease premiums and lease incentives of $9 million to $11 million.
SG&amp;A is expected to be between $12 million and $13 million consistent with our current run rate.
Depreciation is estimated to be $72 million to $74 million and interest net of $58 million to $59 million including approximately $4.8 million of hedge loss amortization related to term financing number one and securitization number one.
And for the full year we expect our effective tax rate excluding the effect of the fleet impairment to be approximately 9% to 10%.
We remain confident that Aircastle was well-positioned from the perspective of portfolio strength operating cash flow performance capital structure and capital markets access.
We expect our proven access to capital and strong cash position will enable us to take advantage of the continuing investment opportunities that are consistent with our return oriented focus.
And finally in conjunction with the strong growth in aviation assets and cash flow performance our Board of Directors approved an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.165 to $0.20 a share representing our 30th consecutive quarterly dividend and consistent with our belief that we continue to grow the dividend along with the sustainable operating cash flow growth of the business over time.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron can you give us a little more detail on the types of assets that you purchased here in the third quarter and committed to over the next six months it seems like they skew towards younger wide-bodies but just wonder if you have any more details you could share? You are right.
And as I mentioned throughout the year about two-thirds of our investments have been in A330s or 777 ERs.
We have also been successful in buying a number of mid-aged aircrafts primarily 738s and A320 family aircraft.
Aside from that there has been one other ERJ one 767.
Those are kind of unique plays in their special situations but I think the main thrust of our of our investments as it has been for the last two years proceeding have been roughly two-thirds of narrow wide-bodies and one third kind of mid-age aircraft.
Okay great.
And did I hear you say that the plan for the freighters with lease expirations over the next year is to try to re-lease them or have they been written down to sort of a part-out value? I think the best economics are from re-leasing and even with the weak market conditions.
Okay.
And then just one last one on the financing of your recent CapEx you mentioned that you could back-lever some of these younger wide-bodies.
Can you talk about some of the terms either LTVs or coupons that you could expect on your incremental borrowing for these assets? Yes Gary I think we would be looking at pretty conservative advance rates.
And in terms of spread I think we are looking at something around LIBOR plus 250 with upfronts in the 1.25 to 1.5 range.
Great thank you very much.
Sure.
We will go next to Isaac Hussani with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
Thanks everyone.
Ron you said you are on track to acquire about $1.5 billion of assets this year which is the second highest level of acquisitions since 2007.
Obviously the availability of financing as well as the attractiveness of the investment opportunity drives your decisions.
However I was wondering beyond those two drivers is there anything else that drives how much you can acquire in a given year or if I ask the question differently are there resource constraints that would force a ceiling in terms of how much you could grow your asset base in a given year? Couple of points on that.
Our team is far more capable team than back in the day when we did that investment volume and I think it was 2007.
There is a big difference also in what we are aiming at.
The average ticket size in 2007 aside from one large acquisition that we did with Guggenheim was much smaller than we were doing today.
So I think our average ticket size here has been more in the $100 million kind of the territory.
Our team is very capable.
We can do quite a bit more than that but we are very careful about making sure that we are achieving the economic thresholds that we need.
So there is a lot more potential from that but we are also kind of holding ourselves to some tight standards.
Okay great.
And then I wanted to ask a dividend related question a bit different than how it’s usually asked rather than asking about how the board thinks about any future increases to the dividend could you perhaps walk us through what the thought process was as it relates to the dividend increase that you just announced this morning? And also if you can provide some color on why the board opted for a dividend increase rather increasing the buyback program I think you have $30 million left in that one if I am correct? Yes just to go in reverse order that’s correct we do have $30 million remaining under our existing stock buyback authorization.
And consistent with what we have been telling people for very long time we believe we can grow the sustainable earnings base of this business.
When we look at what we expect to achieve this year what we reasonably think is doable for next year.
We thought this dividend increase was representative of that change in what we think is cash earnings profile of this business.
And also I would point out a 20% increase from $0.66 a share to the $0.80 a share level is an aggregate of $11 million change in the size of the dividend from roughly $53 million to about $64.5 million on an annual basis.
So we think ultimately having a disciplined approach to growing that cash stream sharing that growth on a consistent base with shareholders makes sense in the context of where we are today.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you so much.
That will do.
You too.
We will go next to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
So first I have a big picture one just on the opportunity to do business in different jurisdictions.
Recently I noticed that some of your competitors Avalon BOC have done business increased their business to the Middle East and to India so I was wondering if you could comment on how much of your business is tilted to those geographical regions and in the opportunities to pursue those types of opportunities going forward? Thanks for the question it’s a good one.
Let’s talk about the Middle East first.
I am going to divide the Middle East into two very simplistic categories the big gulf categories that are kind of redefining the way long-haul travel works in the world specifically Emirates Etihad and Qatar.
Those are all very capital intensive companies they are very strong.
Their business models look very formidable to me.
And they are largely wide body oriented airlines.
We have pursued business with those guys actively.
We haven’t been successful obviously.
We will keep trying.
The rest of the Middle East to me is a little bit more sketchy.
There is a lot of political unrest there we have seen over last two years and of course its a case by case airline by airline situation but much less of the focus for us to be candid.
Turning to India India is a very volatile market in some respect the economic growth rate is off there which means there is some pressure in terms of all that increased capacity that has been dumped in the market.
The airline relationships they are all revolving.
We are keeping an eye out on how jet carries with Etihad it looks like that getting over the finish line.
Air India to me looks like an airline that still sort of got questionable future.
There are some very interesting ventures with Singapore on the long-haul side and with AirAsia partnering up with Tata and I think one has to be very careful about how you step in the India.
There has been some very bad news with the way some of the jurisdictional issues have been dealt with.
We are not closing the book on India we are going to be extra careful and make sure we get a premium in our business there.
Okay great.
And then Mike I am going to ask you to repeat something I am sorry but when you were talking about the impairment choice I am not sure if you gave color on this at this level of granularity but so you took an impairment charge on six 747 and I believe there are nine left.
Can you comment on why you didn’t take impairment charges on those I mean have they already been written down? What was your thought process around that? Hi it’s Ryan.
I will just kind of take that.
We have a grand total of 10 747 converted freighters roughly.
Okay we have impaired six of those the other four as I mentioned there in my remarks are on long-term leases with strong customers and as I said those leases and the rentals and cash flows that are generated from those cover those carrying values quite well.
Okay great thanks.
Sure.
We will take the next question from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Hey Justine.
So the first question I have is on the freighter market.
And I was wondering if you could comment as to whether you think this is a secular or a cyclical issue with freight.
I know that freight is a cyclical market and eventually if we get a certain degree of economic growth in theory I guess the freighter market should come back but Ron in your answer to previous question you mentioned that the gulf carriers are really changing what’s going on as far as global wide body travel and we know that there are a lot A-3 these go into that market.
A lot of wide body orders and to me that seems to also increase the passenger cargo capacity globally so do you see significant recovery in the future in freighters and you think we had this secular change or you do just have a lot more belly space in passenger aircraft and where maybe the global economy is not going to get back say within the next 5 to 6 years to a level that leads to another cyc in freighter demand? I will say first of all the demand growth demand has been flat for three years.
First time it’s ever happened in the air freight market.
And that’s an important thing to remember.
On the supply side we have seen growth in two dimensions.
One is in dedicated cargo aircraft.
In the last – since 2010 there have been 85 new technology freighters delivers it’s a lot.
At the same time belly space has increased.
And as you pointed out it’s not just the Gulf carriers but 777s are and A-330s are all over the world.
And they are very capable aircraft in terms of caring cargo.
They are not perfectly suited for a certain freight operations but they have a role.
And in the short-term I think the fundamental problem is the supply problem.
Now if demand picks up that will help demand has fundamentally been driven historically by GDP activity.
And as you know global GDP is growing at a fairly slow rate but I think it’s a little bit more than that.
I think their historic relationship between freight growth and GDP growth is this kind of deteriorated and so it’s more like a one-to-one relationship over time as opposed to multiple.
So it’s few things at once.
I wish I could be more optimistic about it.
I don’t think the air freight market is irrelevant I think it’s one that’s got some structural challenges and it’s going to take a long time to burn off this excess supply.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned on the narrow body side that you have – that you are seeing lease rates improved because the market I guess is digesting the narrow body order book from some other lessors can you give us a little color on that I mean what hwo big were those the order book and you probably won’t name names but I think you will give us some color on that comment that will be great? Well I think there is a couple of things to say.
First looking at the macro statistics when you look at those factors of 80% it means that planes are full and it means – and at the same time when I look at the parked fleet of narrow bodies the parked fleet is not already kind of committed is extremely small for both A-320 family and 737 NGs.
So it’s and across the board phenomenon.
I think with respect to the large lessor positions I am not going to name names.
There are a number of order streams this is what happens when you have a long-term order positions.
You will have some that and variably get placed in good conditions and some they get placed in top conditions.
And I think as some companies work through those they will look to de-risk their portfolio and they just get things done.
And I think we are through most of that.
Okay and with those done in sales lease back form or were they done just straight leases to airlines directly? Look the sale leasebacks when you enter into it as a lessor you know what you are getting into.
You know what’s your rental is going to be and know what your price is going to be.
We you do an order stream you don’t know the lease of all you don’t know the financing and even the price is a bit of a variable because you do know how the aircraft will be configured so it’s the latter.
Okay and then one last question on geography thanks for that information in India and on the Middle East but it seems that on the airline earnings calls you have heard about a lot of demand weakness in Asia primarily China and Japan and it doesn’t seem though in China we are seeing any difficulty in airlines.
I know Japan Jetstar is going to focus recently are you guys is that – is Japan on your radar screen as a potential weakness and similar to the way India was a couple of years ago or are you not too concerned there yet? We don’t have any business in Japan which is actually much to our regret and that’s what one of the things I am hoping we can fix with Marubeni.
Our focus on Japan will be to do sale and leasebacks not to do placements.
And so that’s just helping in airline finance a good supposed to increasing capacity that they wouldn’t if otherwise been there so I don’t think it’s a concern per se.
I do think that in certain parts of Asia there has been a little bit of over ordering it’s been a number of kind of eye-popping deals out in the market and I don’t see all those going to fruition but that’s going to play out over a long period of time.
As far as the Chinese market goes it’s a really important market.
I think the comments that you might be hearing are relating to people who are trying to fly there as opposed to the demand from their customers over there.
Chinese domestic market demand has just been through the roof unfortunately it has been an opportunity set for Western lessors because the local bank owned leasing companies are just gobbling up all that stuff at return levels of them make any sense to us.
Great thanks very much.
Sure.
We will go next to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
Ron you made the comment that re-leasing the 747s was the best of the alternatives.
Is it fair to assume that therefore you think the returns on re-leasing at that time are going to exceed your threshold or best among a variety of worse options? I just wanted to kind of clarify that? I think I will just answer it in a very general way whether that the freighter or passenger aircraft or a big or a small plane or a newer and old one we always look at the incremental opportunity and size up the best course of action.
That’s why we have sold the number of our older 767 757 737 classics even mid-age current generation narrow-bodies in certain circumstances where we are able to get better value by getting the cash back and reinvesting in something else.
In the case of freights I will be candid with you the market for the aircraft in terms of sale is weak it’s a distressed market.
And I think it’s better for us to redeploy those aircrafts that got great relationships.
We have been able to do that exactly.
And that’s the best course of action going forward.
Got it.
That’s very helpful.
And Ron I mean it’s clear from the results then certainly over the last couple of years that in spite of the cargo exposure you guys have managed the business quite well.
You have raised the dividend I mean there is clearly a lot of good things going on.
I think though I am always surprised sort of when we listen to you speak and you name all of these negatives related to cargo in the same breath but then kind of defend the commitment of the business to continue to dedicate a lot of both capital and kind of managerial resources to cargo.
Can you just sort of given the continued weakness in cargo offer some more thoughts on the strategic focus there? And how bad does it have to get before we just throw in the towel and say that’s just not worth our capital or our time longer term? Well let me make a couple points here.
One is the cargo portfolio so far to-date has actually made money for us right.
And we are portfolio managers and some assets do better than the others but and whatever we own we own.
The cargo portfolio has actually been a decent not as good as we would hope the investment category for us.
And as we look forward at the market just to tie into the first part of my question we do the best we can with what we have.
But why continue to make it a strategic emphasis why not just say look we will de-emphasize this over time as a result of what we just talked about? Well I am not sure I understand the point about strategic emphasis.
It’s a market that we have played in.
We are a portfolio manager we look across the space.
And we look and find the best opportunities incrementally whether it’s cargo or passenger or new or older big or small.
And so at the moment I mean we still look at cargo deals that the cargo market kind of falls into two categories incrementally.
There is the new 777 freighters which I like in terms of the customer demand and its operational characteristics.
We are getting skunked every time we bid on those.
The prices on the new triple 777 freighters are about $5 million to $10 million more than the passenger aircraft and thereabout that much left to build and the lease rate factors are worse than what we see on the new narrow-body.
So that doesn’t make any sense to us.
On the Everything Else category it’s a shrink – it’s opportunity set where we haven’t been able to make sense of the sales prices.
Now I would point out this I did during my remarks that the freighter portfolio has shrunk from 31% at the beginning of 2012 to 20% today.
And so the on the margin it’s actually been a disinvestment process as opposed to reinvestment.
That’s very helpful and that’s clear.
Should we expect it to kind of stay at that new percent level of the total or even fall from here or would we see it go higher just trying to kind of understand the longer term plan? If the investment opportunities continue to present themselves as they do you will see the passenger fleet grow a lot and you won’t see much change – you will see the depreciation of cargo fleet.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks a lot Ron.
Yes.
Next up we have Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
I wonder if you can talk a little bit about it looks like you wrote down 6.7% of the portfolio by 31% if my math is correct here.
Can you talk about what else is on your watch list in terms of when we look at your book value what is potentially subject to impairment going forward? Yes.
And Mark so as I said in my remarks we do have a monitoring list and those are assets that we think the expected cash flow coverage of our carrying value is small enough to keep an eye on a regular basis and that represented 11 aircraft or about $200 million which is about 4% of the fleet at the end of the third quarter.
And as a percent of our fleet that list has been coming down over time but there are always assets that are in that category and we continue to monitor those.
What we have done with the freighter fleet if you look at the charge we took on those six converted freighters of roughly $89 million against a roughly $1.1 billion overall freighter fleet portfolio the impairment is about 8% of what it was before that charge.
And we have looked at that fleet we have looked at that class of assets and we feel good about what this does to put that where it belongs in the context of what we see today and what we think is a pretty conservative view about what lease rates will be in that market going forward.
Yes just to add a little bit of color to that Mark in that list and you will see more detail in the queue when it comes out.
There are number of aircraft that are on what we call last leases meaning if that’s what it sounds like.
We are assuming that the lease that’s currently in place is the last one and that the residual values have been brought down to a projected scrap value.
So included in that list is an MD-11 freighter an A330 and a few classic 737 classics.
So there is not much more we can do with those aircraft in terms of managing our way through.
And I think that as Mike said the list has been paired down and part of it was an active management effort on our part.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then Ron just a question on the A-320 market as we heard lot of different things from appraisers about the firming of that market but I think there is a lot of confusion about which vintages A-320s excuse me where the market has turned.
Are you seeing a difference between the oldest vintages and sort of the mid-life vintages in that market just wondering if you can give us any color on the A-320 specifically? Well there are a couple of things.
One is in general you will see a recovery always kind of affects the newest aircraft the most.
And so you are probably seeing a better improvement in rentals for the newer models versus the older ones both in relative and absolute dollars.
Having said that the lease terms on the newer aircraft still remain relatively short and so when you think about it as an owner as an investor in the long-term outlook of those aircrafts there are still some things on the margin that would preclude us from getting involved.
Now in terms of rents on the mid-age aircraft there is definitely been improvement there too.
They are still at low levels.
And as we discussed a few calls ago we had taken a mid-age A-319 and a mid-age A-320 and made a decision not to reinvest in those and re-lease them but instead to part them out.
There is strength in the part-out market.
We may do more of that.
We may not on its case-by-case.
There is a recovery but it’s still weak.
And I think there is probably a benefit from some of the broader courses I talked about before in terms of increased demand and high load factors but I think it’s a question of how long will this be sustained and this is kind of a longer term medium to longer term outlook question.
Great thanks.
And then just one last one for Mike when you look at sources and uses and the cash you brought in and so forth how should we think about accessing the capital markets when will you next look to do a bond deal what should be our expectations? I don’t know that we have a firm timeline for when we will do our next bond deal.
It’s going to depend in large part upon what we see in the investment horizon.
And in time we will probably look to refinance our ‘06 securitization and ultimately our ‘07 securitization when we feel like the inherent leverage in those is makes sense to take them out with attractively priced debt.
Okay I figured I tried.
Thanks very much.
We will go next to Helane Becker with Cowen &amp; Company.
Excuse me thanks very much operator.
Hi guys.
Almost all my questions have been asked and answered.
I just have a couple of points of clarification.
And I am specifically looking at Slide 9 and it says you have 11 aircraft out to U.S.
Airways.
I am kind of wondering are – and I might have asked you this question once before are there provisions that if the merger with American does go through the aircraft stay with them or do they get what’s the timing on when those aircraft come back to you or whatever? Can you just provide some clarification on that? Sure Helane.
They are all hell and high water leases they don’t bear any connection to the merger.
Four of those aircraft in the bulk of the value or A-330-300 airplanes that are on leases that got out four or five years.
And those were extended a year or two ago.
There are a total of six 757s and all six of those were extended for a three or four year terms in the last year or two.
And the only one that’s sort of in questions is 767-200 ER which is supposed to come off lease next year.
That’s one of the ten that we have targeted for a part out.
And I don’t think that’s revised irrespective of what happens with American.
Got you okay… We have that market down to scrap value.
Okay it’s going to be my next question about that particular aircraft.
And then it also says I just want you to clarify for me that you on the two charts next to each other it says you have two aircrafts out to Emirates as a 3% to 6% customer and then in the pie chart it says 5% of your fleet is the with UAE Airlines right.
So how does that work do you have is Etihad also customer or other customers in the UAE to get to the 5% or is that this two aircraft 5% do you know what I mean? Yes I think it’s those two aircraft just to be clear they are two 747-400 extended range freighters that are on long-term leases with Emirates that’s how we have there at the moment.
Okay alright.
Are those planes part of the freighter planes that you are going to wind up parting out when they come back or are they on longer term leases.
It doesn’t say how long these are? Those are on quite long leases and we are happily collecting nice rents every month.
Okay so it sounds good and thank you so much for all the detail.
It’s very very helpful.
Have a great day.
You too.
We will go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Thanks Ron you talked about new programs basically in all size categories I wonder your thoughts are about playing in those new aircraft technologies.
I know you are not that interested on the narrow-body side but maybe on the wide-body would you be willing to actually go into any kind of order books or are you just waiting for those to come to you over time? We are interested in all of them including the narrow-bodies.
The issue right now is that when you look at the next generation of airplanes you have a really really long way to before you get any product.
And maybe this is a little bit of a different perspective on our part than some of our peers.
But we are a lot more risk-averse about capital commitments going out many years.
And the farther out you go in general the more risk you take in terms of who will your customer be what will the rental profile be how were you paid for the aircraft and finance it.
And so we not close to anything it’s just sort of an economic equation.
And unfortunately for neos and maxes you are looking at the end of the decade unless we do sale or leaseback activity.
And the same thing with the 787s and A-350s we are interested in all those aircraft.
That’s helpful and then on the impairments you had one 737-700 that was impaired for $8.9 million was a mid-age aircraft.
It seemed like a relatively large charge was there something specific to that aircraft because I think you have – I don’t know I think you had about $8 million at the end of the second quarter? Yes Arren that particular aircraft the 700s have gone through a few customer bankruptcies and during one of those transitions we invested a number of years ago a fair bit of money and engine restorations and worked to put it back out on lease.
So we have had the highest carrying value across our portfolio.
And given our sort of diminished view of next lease rates around this small capacity airframe that one fell out for that particular reason and we are not necessarily think it’s indicative of the class or a portfolio in that class per se.
Yes I mean having said that though was as Mike alluded to we are both for 700 and for the 319 a lot more negative about the future outlook.
And you will see that in the monitoring list that comes out there is 700 besides this although the carrying value is quite a lot lower than the one we talk about here.
We have a grand total of eight 700s.
And having said all that we can buy an aircraft at the right price we would we don’t have a strict prohibition on anything with the leased and the customer and all the other parameters work we will look at it but I do think that that’s against the backdrop with lower expectations.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think before you alluded to some ABS transactions both on the engine side and the aircraft side.
Just wondering if you guys are contemplating I know you have been stressing or focused on really corporate level financing and not encumbering assets.
Just wondering if there is maybe a change in the strategy there looking at the ABS side? No.
Scott I mean I think we just noted it because we have all been sitting around in this industry for three years saying this year there is going to be an ABS deal and finally there actually has been one.
I don’t think it’s particularly well-suited to our portfolio or our strategy at this time but we do find it encouraging that they have developed an investor base for an ABS like product that in the future maybe useful to us.
And it’s something to keep in mind but in the near-term I don’t think it changes our views or our thoughts around funding the business over the next few years.
Okay thanks.
And then Ron you I think made a comment that you are seeing more competition in certain parts of the market.
And I think you are referring to maybe aircraft types just wondering maybe if you could provide more color.
Is it I assume it’s kind of the more midlife aircraft but just wondering maybe where you are seeing that competition come from? I think the competition is across the board.
For some time there has been some very very difficult to understand economics transacting in the newer narrow-body section.
And in fact I think part of it is due just to a confluence of business models among the big leasing companies.
Back when we started the company eight years ago or so we used to compete against a large number of relatively credible midsize companies the larger lessors right now almost without exception focus on new airplanes.
And so that when you have everybody in any business doing the same thing it drives down the return and profit opportunity and as these firms look to grow that’s continuing to be the case.
Now there have been some new entrants in the mid-body space in the mid-age space in the space that we have kind of had to ourselves if you will.
And they are driving prices up a little bit.
There are still very good returns given the interest rate environment.
So we are continuing to pursue those but in some cases we find it better to let other people win deals and in some cases we continue to pursue those.
So what’s changed here is not so much the opportunity set but the nature of the expectations by the buyers.
They used to be that private equity or kind of alternative asset manager expectations were quite high in terms of returns.
There is still very little leverage here but there is such a demand for product on an un-levered basis if the returns are now at a level that in some cases work for these guys.
Okay.
And by the way when we lose a deal we will look around and see if we can sell an aircraft.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
We’ll go next to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
Just a follow-up on one of the previous questions any way to size the value at risk on the $200 million of aircraft on the watch list in terms of kind of order of magnitude? I think you commented that this quarter was about an 8% write-down on a carrying value would that be kind of a good gauge I know it’s probably not an easy question to answer but ballpark would that make sense? No I think it’s too hard to do it that way.
I think it’s Mike just to be clear Jason what I said is the 8% is when you look at the converted freighters that we impaired in the context of our total freight portfolio.
That’s what that charge represented.
In the context of those specific six assets that impairment charge was roughly 30% 31% of their prior carrying value.
So if it’s very asset dependent and very specific and it’s too hard for me to just throw out a random value at risk number of the $200 million that’s still on the watch list.
Yes.
I will point out Jason that two of the aircraft that we impaired remain on the list and they still accounted for a large chunk of it.
Okay great.
Thank you for the color.
And we will take a follow-up Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hey hopefully a quick one.
Just on the 1.9 net unrestricted debt to unrestricted equity can you comment on where you feel comfortable with that figure just remind us what you think you can push that figure to? Yes Rich in our credit profile and our expectations for managing the business going forward we think we can comfortably operate up to around 2.5 times leverage in the near-term and depending upon what we see in the marketplace.
We will see if that makes sense.
We have been running below that considerably for some time but we think given our credit profile in our metrics that can be increased somewhat but we are mindful of those metrics in running and managing the business.
Yes I will just add maintaining strong access to the bond market is a strategic priority for us.
And so we are going to balance the needs of all the various constituents and making sure that that we continue to enable our growth on a reasonable basis.
Okay thank you.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
I’d like to turn the conference back to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Hey this is Frank.
Thank you very much for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.