Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q1 2014 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s first quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We’ll begin the presentation shortly but I’d like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend and will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Hello and welcome to our earnings call for the first quarter of 2014.
This morning I will discuss the current business environment Aircastle’s performance and accomplishments during the quarter and our plans for the future.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then address the financial results and then we’ll open the call up for questions.
First quarter was another busy period as we continued executing on our business plan and capitalizing on good market conditions.
We’ve taken advantage of an attractive financing market and a low interest rate environment to drive down interest cost and maintained or increase the average life of our debt.
We already have a high rental revenue yield.
They were up – it was 13.5% during the first quarter and by working to improve our debt profile we're hoping to drive our net margins higher in time.
During the first quarter we raised nearly $1 billion of new debt from a variety of sources both refinance older high cost financings with short remaining terms and to provide funding for new investments.
This had the effect of driving down our weighted average interest rate to 4.6% from almost 5.4% at the end of 2013.
Our average remaining debt term is nearly five years.
The strength of the financing market has also had the effect of driving aircraft prices higher as new investors seeking higher yields have entered our sector.
We're aiming to capitalize on that by increasing our aircraft sales activities.
This includes exiting end of life aircraft which in aggregate we expect to do it better than breakeven.
It also encompasses opportunistic sales.
Aircastle's focus is on allocating capital efficiently and we remain disciplined aircraft buyers.
To defend we’re continuing to emphasize opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves and earn superior risk adjusted returns and we do this by utilizing the Company's distinct capabilities in tapping into our broad deal sourcing network.
During the first quarter we closed $715 million in acquisitions including the first part of our important purchase and leaseback transactions LATAM for 777-300ERs.
Our investing in sales [force] has improved the overall quality of our portfolio both in terms of asset mix and technology as well as credit quality.
We're continuing to do an excellent job of managing our assets and we recorded 99% portfolio utilization for the first quarter.
All-in-all our cash flows have been strong and cash earnings for the quarter increased and our cash ROE over the past 12 months was 11.8%.
In this context we're pleased to announce our Board declared a $0.20 per share dividend for the second quarter.
This is our 32nd consecutive quarter quarterly dividend declaration.
As we've said previously our approach has been to share with investors a portion of the company's sustainable earnings through dividends.
We like where we are positioned strategically.
Aircastle is a nimble and credible value-oriented investor with a skilled team and low cost and flexible capital structure that allows us to act decisively in markets opportunities as they arise.
Now we'll cover the business environment.
Demand for passenger travel remains good.
For the International Air Transport Association revenue passenger kilometers rose 5.6% during the first few months of the year.
The average load factor during this time was 78.5% which is exceptionally high for what is a traditionally thought of as a slow season and it indicates that aircraft are flying full.
We are seeing strength in many areas including the Middle East and developed markets such as Europe.
Asian growth rates are slowing a little but they still remain at good levels.
We're mindful of increased economic volatility in several emerging market economies but haven't yet seen that translate into major changes in air traffic.
When I refer to emerging markets I'm actually addressing a wide range of very different situations so it's hard to generalize.
In any case as always we are keeping a close watch on our customers and on key regions.
In contrast to passenger travel the air cargo market remains weak.
We have seen modest improvements in demand with freight ton kilometers increasing 4.4% year-to-date through March.
However oversupply remains the biggest challenge for this market.
Though we saw demand growth increase -- exceed the increase in capacity by a small margin during the first quarter of the year and that's a encouraging sign.
We believe it will take a while to work through the glut of available aircraft.
Aircraft rental levels are where we consider to be good levels and they’ve -- but they have appeared to flatten out a bit over the past few months.
Over the past two to three years new aircraft model demand has benefited from low interest rates and relatively high fuel prices.
One positive factor is that there is very little availability of used modern passenger aircraft.
Now there are several new aircraft types coming online over the next several years in every size category and over the next few month it should be interesting to see as we get data point regarding how A320 lease placement rates compare to CEO rentals.
We are taking a close look at new models and expect that they will eventually work their way into our fleet.
We plan to touch on this subject during our Annual Investor Day presentation next week in New York City.
Turning to our financial performance during the first quarter we recorded net income of $5.8 million or $0.7 per share.
Adjusted net income was nearly $13.3 million or $0.16 per share.
Both of these figures were reduced by nearly $16.4 million of contra maintenance revenue during the quarter.
As we discussed during our year-end call this contra revenue relates to compensation we paid a lessee to return three aircraft fresh from engine overhauls at lease end.
Operating and finance lease revenues during the quarter were up 11% to $17 million -- $178 million reflecting the portfolio growth and strong utilization levels we achieved.
I would also add our accounts receivable balance is more than 30 days late or less than $200 000 in total.
This is an extraordinarily low level given the size of our revenue base.
As I mentioned our cash ROE during the past 12 months was 11.8%.
This result is also being lowered by contra maintenance revenue in 2014 but it will retreat thereafter.
Mike will discuss Aircastle's financials in greater detail.
Turning to our investment activity Q1 was one of our busiest quarters.
We purchased eight aircraft and this total includes four relatively new 777-300ER which were leasing to LATAM.
We also purchased A330 and 738 aircraft leased respectively to Singapore Airlines and Alaska Airlines.
These are all very credit worthy lessees and consistent with our acquisitions over the past few years elevate the quality of our customer base.
Our biggest customers are now mostly large international flag carriers.
In general our purchases this quarter were of high-quality assets at very good prices.
Our play has been to capitalize on our remarketing skills and the financial – and our financial flexibility by purchasing these – and aircraft on short to medium lease terms.
We have $400 million of additional investment commitments and most of this relates to the second part of the LATAM transaction.
During Q1 we sold six aircraft with an average age of 25 years at a modest profit.
These consisted of four 737 freighters and two 737-400s.
In March our continued successful exit from older aircraft times.
I expect this type of sales activity will continue throughout 2014 and into next year.
During Q1 we also took the decision to sell one of our 747-400 converted freighters and another 737 classic.
We hope to wrap-up these sales over the next few weeks but their financial impact is to a large degree already reflected in the first quarter financials through transactional impairments and offsetting maintenance revenue.
As I mentioned earlier we're seeing very strong demand for aircraft from investors and receiving – seeking to capitalize on this by increasing our aircraft sales activity.
This means exiting more end of life aircraft sooner and matching our portfolio concentrations.
Of course we're also keeping an eye out for opportunistic sales and we believe that the current market is conducive to such transactions.
After sales have helped us reduce our older technology aircraft exposure to less than 5% of our portfolio and we expect this percentage to continue falling rapidly.
Additionally freighter aircraft now account for 16% of our total net book value flight equipment that's nearly half of the level it was at the start of the 2012.
Turning to lease placements we've made very good progress in addressing the aircraft scheduled to come off lease this year.
Asset sales have played a big role.
All in all we expect aircraft dispositions will cover 12 of the aircraft coming off lease this year including two 747 freighters.
Three of the 12 aircraft sales have been completed and we've secured letters of intent for most of the rest.
In aggregate we believe these sales of older aircraft will generate a modest profit.
Taking into account signed lease letters of intents we have only two aircraft left to place for 2014.
One is a nine year old A320 that's coming off lease at the under of the year and the other is a 747-400 converted freighter built in the early nineties.
We're in active conversations for both.
For 2015 our schedule lease expirations cover about 8% of the total net book value of our flight equipment and we're starting to go work on these hoping to lock in terms and what we consider to be a less or friendly market environment.
Debt markets remained strong despite some equity market in geopolitical volatility.
During the first quarter we successfully completed a new unsecured note issuance; several secured bank financings and expanded and extended our unsecured bank revolving line of credit.
We also repaid our first and most expensive unsecured financing and we retired our first securitization.
Repaying our securitization increased our base of unencumbered flight equipment to $3.3 billion at quarter-end.
Our standing in the financial markets remains very good given our conservative credit metrics and our large unencumbered asset base.
Looking ahead we're off to a great start in 2014.
We have taken advantage of attractive financing market conditions to bring down the cost of our debt and we're working to drive our net margins higher.
Q1 was one of our biggest quarters for new investments but we're still disciplined value [oriented] investment buyers and targeting investments we believe we can achieve cash returns on equity of at least 15% while providing an acceptable risk profile.
We're well-positioned to capitalize on buying opportunities across the market using the skills and versatility of our team and the flexibility of our capital structure.
We continue to seek and exploit our sweet spots including mid-life current-generation aircraft.
We will also start taking a closer look at the new generation aircraft as they become more available.
Given the increase in aircraft prices we expect to pursue asset sales more aggressively.
We're pleased with our strategic customer relationships and among our priorities for this year will be to harness the benefits from our relationship with Marubeni and to explore ways to continue to build on our aircraft leasing joint venture with Teachers.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and adjusted earnings while managing the company for the long-term.
Our business plan is distinct from the other large aircraft leasing companies and is tailored to our strengths.
We're nimble value -- investor we have a skilled team and financial flexibility and we have firepower to act decisively in market opportunity as they arise.
And finally we will continue to focus on efficient capital allocation.
I will now hand the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As Ron just mentioned our aircraft acquisition momentum from 2013 carried over in the first quarter of this year.
Consequently our operating financial lease revenues for the quarter were $178.3 million up $17.8 million or 11% year-over-year.
We have acquired 25 aircraft in 2013 and the additional eight in the first quarter of this year for approximately $2.2 billion.
Over the same period we sold or disposed 28 aircraft and other equipment for approximately $575 million.
Our cash earnings operating cash flow and cash returns they are increasing in line with the net growth of our portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter were $176.6 million compared with $176.2 million for the first quarter of 2013.
Higher operating and financial lease revenues of $17.8 million were offset by lower maintenance revenue of $13.8 million and a lower other revenue of $4.1 million.
As explained on our year-end earnings call under the terms of leases expiring involving 737-800 aircraft Aircastle made end-of-lease maintenance payments reflecting the much better maintenance condition of these aircraft on their re-delivery compared to the condition of the aircraft when they were originally acquired and leased.
Accordingly during the first quarter we reimbursed the lessee approximately $16.4 million for the heavy maintenance work.
These end-of-lease maintenance payments were accounted for as contra maintenance revenue at leased expiry during the first quarter.
Total remaining reimbursements for the year which covered three additional aircraft coming off lease from this lessee are expected to be about $16 million.
We expect about $5 million to $6 million of this to be recorded in the second quarter and the balance occurring during the second half of the year.
This kind of accounting treatment is a bit unusual for us and is based on a particular circumstances related to our original underwriting economics and expected cash flow timing of lease rentals and maintenance events.
When we acquired these aircraft we paid a very low purchase price up front and deferred major maintenance outlays for six plus years.
These aircraft are high-quality in demand assets and have been placed on lease or have lease commitment for when they would roll-off.
By way of comparison during 2013 our end of lease maintenance payments aggregated only $1.4 million for the full year and we reiterate what we said on the last call as we look at our existing lease portfolio expirees over the next few years we do not expect any significant additional payments like this.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $170 million versus $168.6 million for the prior year.
Higher operating and financial lease revenues of $17.8 and lower maintenance expenses of $1.5 million were offset by the $16.4 million of contra maintenance revenue I just described as well as other revenue and lower interest earned from debt investments a $2.4 million reduction related to the early lease termination fees versus the prior year.
During the first quarter we recorded $18.3 million of transactional impairment charges associated with two aircraft leases that were amended during the quarter.
These charges were largely offset by end of lease maintenance revenue related to these two aircraft totaling $17.2 million.
These were 747 converted freighter and one 737 classic that we expect to part out during the second quarter.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $13.3 million down 14.2 year-over-year and reflects higher non-cash impairment charges of $12.1 million higher depreciation of $4 million higher adjusted interest expense of $2 million offset by lower taxes and lower maintenance costs.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $64.3 million; an increase of $5.1 million year-over-year cash interest increased approximately $3.1 million due to higher weighted average debt outstanding versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.9 million basically flat from the prior year and depreciation was up $4 million to approximately $74 million reflecting the growth in the aircraft portfolio.
Our first quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $0.9 million and 14.2 respectively.
We expect the tax rate to range between 14% to 15% for the second quarter and for the full year.
During the quarter we sold six aircraft with a weighted average age of 25 years along with engine sales and generated net proceeds of $28 million.
These resulted in a net gain of approximately $1.1 million.
Since our fourth [nation] we've sold 66 aircraft for the growth proceeds of $1.6 billion producing an un-levered ROI of approximately 11.1%.
We continue to manage the portfolio with a focus on cash flow based economics of every investment and reinvestment decision.
We used cash earnings as a metric because we think it's the best way to understand the business is to follow the cash flows the simple metric starts with GAAP cash flow from operations and filters out the non-cash elements of maintenance and lease incentives terminated hedge amortization and stock compensation and other non-cash charges.
For the first quarter of 2014 cash earnings were $193.2 million versus $184.2 million an increase of approximately 5% over the first quarter of 2013.
Our ongoing implementation of our value oriented investment approach is driving continued strong cash returns.
As Ron mentioned our cash ROE was 11.8% for the 12 months ended March 31 and I'll reemphasize that this metric will be adversely impacted during 2014 by this contra maintenance revenue impact but we expect this to drive to higher levels as we move forward.
Turning to our capital structure total borrowings pro forma at the quarter end were $3.8 billion up $3.7 billion at year end.
We refinanced our $450 million much 9.75% notes with a $500 million debt issuance at 5.125 with a seven-year maturity in 2021.
The notes were redeemed in April of this year at a premium of $37 million including deferred financing fees write-offs.
This will provide a significant reduction in cash interest expense going forward.
Our pro forma ratio of unsecured debt to total debt was approximately 57% versus 58% at year end and 49% at year end 2012.
We had 104 of our 164 aircraft at quarter end that were unencumbered representing approximately 3.3 billion of our 5.8 billion of flight equipment.
Our pro forma net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.3 times and we're in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
On March 31st we also amended and restructured our existing revolving credit facility upsizing it from $335 million to $450 million with a new four-year term.
And finally turning to our second quarter guidance we expect lease rental revenues to range between $178 million to $180 million financial lease revenue to be approximately $4 million maintenance revenue to be approximately $5 million to $6 million contra maintenance revenue associated with 1737 return to be negative $5 million to $6 million in the second quarter amortization of net lease discount in the -- lease incentive amortization to be 5 million to 6 million SG&amp;A at 13 million to 14 million depreciation of 75 million to 77 million interest net of 62 million to 64 million including approximately 7 million of deferred hedge loss amortization related to our ‘06 and ‘08 secured debt repayments.
We're looking at gains on sales of approximately $7 million to $12 million for the quarter and as I mentioned the loss on extinguishment of our 9.75 notes will be approximately $37 million charged in the second quarter.
And we're expecting an effective tax rate of 14% to 15%.
I also note that this guidance does not include the impact of a number of lease end part-out activities which we assume will have a modest pretax contribution over the course of the year.
To conclude we ended the first quarter on a strong note.
Our business is performing well.
We completed a significant amount of financing activities during the quarter.
Our cash earnings is growing in conjunction with our fleet and we continually successfully execute on the value-oriented strategy we employ.
And with that operator we'd like to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
My first question is on this refinancing that you guys did.
I know you said that you expect significant cash interest savings from that but can you quantify the interest expense savings you expect? And then just taking into account orders and then just talk about whether or not you see more refinancing opportunities given the current state of your balance sheet? Yes.
Simplistically Richa if you look at we took out 9.75 notes with 5.125 notes so almost 5% on $0.5 billion in rounds numbers $24 million a year of cash interest savings going forward.
And we also took out our 2006 securitization during the first quarter which in essence had an effective cash interest rate in the high fives and we put new secured debt in place at much lower rate.
So the benefits of those we'll see going forward.
At this point in time I don't see any other obvious refinancing opportunities but we'll continue to monitor the interest rate environment and at some points in the future I would expect as our 2007 securitization continues to pay down that we would look to take that out and free up what will become in time a very large asset pool encumbered by a relatively small amount of debt.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then Ron can you clarify what you said regarding your investment targets.
I know on the last call you said you saw upside risk to the $1 billion target you had for 2014 but I believe you said an updated figure.
I missed that.
Well we close 715 in the first quarter and we have about 400 million left to go.
Most of that is the second part of the LATAM transaction.
So the problem we have is is in forecasting the exact time frame for that because that depends on LATAM and winding the existing financing that we're not party to.
It could happen this year; it could slip into next year so that will have an effect on the 2014 results in a big way.
If it happens this year we're north of 1 billion already and we continue to look for new deals.
All right great.
And then if I could sneak in one more.
Can you give us comments on your thoughts regarding the 787? We don't typically hear you talk about that aircraft type and it's one that I believe you stayed clear of purchasing so I just wanted to get your thoughts again on that assets and why you haven't pursued any acquisitions of it? I will answer that first more broadly to say and fantasize what I had mentioned before that we're taking a really close look at all the new technology aircraft out there.
We're big believers that the first part of the production run generally holds it’s value better than the last part and the 787 is probably a good example of going forward.
We also don't like to be especially for an airplane that has so much new technology involved.
The first bleeding edge kind of investor and obviously there were a lot of teething issues here.
Within the 787 family and even more broadly we tend to be more fans of the up gauge products.
The 900 and the Dash 1000 will be more interesting to us in terms of the breadth of the customer base but there haven't been that many deal opportunities yet and we'll take a look at it when they back available.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Morning.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned the receivable balance was down to a couple hundred thousand dollars.
What do you attribute this to is it more the improving customer quality is it a new point of emphasis within the organization is it timing or what's behind it? We've always had very low levels Gary and I think one of our sources of pride is our asset management team and despite having a portfolio that's been 10 11 12 years on average we've always had that kind of a level.
Now this is – even with that spectrum on the low side I think the fact that we're heading into the summer and kind of generally heavier cash flow season is a contributing factor.
We have weeded out some portfolio non-performers to be candid.
But I think it's a – I don't think it's a reflection of the portfolio of being under performer in the past.
I would note – we're not saying that among our bigger customers who definitely improved the credit quality and I direct you to the PowerPoint that's posted on our website you will see the top 10 customer base basically now consistent of a bunch of pretty strong flag carriers.
Okay great.
Also your comments sounded like there's better demand for some of your mid-life planes and you would have thought maybe six 12 months ago.
Are you getting sort of inbound calls unsolicited bids for planes that perhaps you weren't planning on selling but now are contemplating doing so? I'll say this.
It's been a lot more active in terms of investor demand and investor inquiries.
A good anecdote for that would be 1 500 1700 people at ISAT at last conference.
There is a lot of new money into the space and a lot of the existing players are just working with bigger budgets now.
So we're trying to harness that and make the best allocation of capital decisions we can.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just a couple of quick cleanups may be for Mike.
The tax rate now looks like it's in the mid-teens.
It had been maybe 8% 10% prior to that.
What's -- is there a mix change in the income or what's going on there? Yes.
At present time it's mostly a change in mix of income so we have some more assets being owned in Ireland and in Singapore that have modest tax rates compared to Bermuda ownership and so depending upon how that mix shifts over time as we see where we are today and look at the rest of the year we're thinking kind of 2014 2015 seems like a reasonable guess at the moment.
Okay.
And for full year is 15 million to 20 million of asset sale gains still really? Yeah I think that's still consistent with our expectations.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just a quick follow-up on that last question I guess on just the individual aircraft types that you're seeing kind of firming on market prices for.
What is I guess most intriguing to you for sale out of your portfolio? Or I guess in other words kind of where are you seeing kind of the opportunities best opportunities to sell in the market right now in? Hi Jason.
I would say that the increase in prices is pretty much across the Board.
Now we've had for some time now a lot of competition on new airplanes what's really surged in the last six months to a year has been mid age aircraft.
And I think what's happened is twofold.
One is there is more debt availability.
It's still not broad but there's a lot more than there used to be.
And the other part of it is that the investors that are entering that space are for the most part not targeting high teens or even higher returns but they're looking for high single-digit to low double-digit returns and those are certainly achievable in those kinds of assets particularly if you can get leverage.
And so it's a combination of factors but again I'd say this is not a limited phenomenon to one assets type or one age group.
Okay.
Thanks for the color there.
And then I guess on the opposite end of the spectrum what type is also kind of most attractive to you at present or is kind of more universally applicable to just some of the other types that you are seeing out there more broadly? I think the best way to answer that is in kind of drawing a contrast to what we've done over the last three or four years where probably two-thirds of our investment has been in wide-bodies that are less than five years old.
We found very good value there.
There was less competition.
The financing that was available for such aircraft was great particularly given that lease terms tend to be long and the customers very strong.
I think that game is to a large extent over given the flow of new money.
I think there is some yield fatigue with the new narrow-bodies that’s migrated over into the – that’s migrated over to the light bodies and I don't see as much of that business heading our way as it did before.
Having said that the part that we've always been competitive on has been the mid-age aircraft and here we don't really pursue auction situations ever.
We try to avoid those as much as possible and focus on the spoke deals.
Those are transactions where we don't end up in just a raw price competition with everybody else and I still think that there's good deal throw there.
We will just have to pick and choose our battles.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Scott Valentin with FBR and Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Just Ron with regard to the fleet evolution you guys put on a slide that the fleet has become younger less freighter more wide-body.
Just wondering do you see continuing to evolve on that fashion going forward for the next several years or do you see any shifts ahead.
I see a couple things happening actually more than a couple things.
We've over weighted on wide bodies for the reason I mentioned before I think that will gradually reduce as we sell and try to take advantage of market strength and frankly as we become less competitive on the buy-side.
The freighter portfolio I expect will continue to shrink.
I don't have a very positive outlook for that market.
It doesn't mean that we won't bid on things but as a general matter we have been uncompetitive given our view of the world so I think that will continue to shrink and it has a lot.
The classic generation aircraft 737 757 767s I think will be pretty close to gone by the end of this year as it relates to our portfolio.
So that leaves current generation narrow bodies which I think at least hold their place and then new stuff.
And as I said that’s something we're taking a very close look at.
I think it's generally the case that the earlier parts of the production will hold their life -- their value better.
The one thing that we're trying to get our hands around is how much more efficient are these new generation aircraft versus the current models because this is at the end of the day an investment business not just I want to buy something new because it's new.
Can the new prices that the manufacturers or other seller look for these aircraft support the increased efficiency.
And so that's a bit of an open question and as you can imagine there's a lot of price variations in the market in regards to a small number of data points.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then on slide 12 at the bottom of the slide talks about portfolio yield.
And just wondering it's been slowly declining over time still remains higher than peers but just wondering is that a reflection of the reduced age of the fleet or lower rate environment or combination of both and where do you see that trending kind of over time? I think the biggest driver there by far is the investment in new wide bodies and those are on long lease terms.
The lease terms and the pricing reflects the interest rate environment number one.
Number two it's also a credit quality question and also lease accounting is always going to have a lower yield in the beginning of the lease versus the end of the lease.
So I think you have that effect as well.
I think all the other affects are pretty small relatively speaking we had very great very good portfolio utilization.
So it's not that the portfolio isn't humming.
It's basically the incremental investments.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Helane Becker with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Hello? Hi Helane.
Hi Helane.
Hi guys.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
So this is my question.
When you talked about the Ontario Teachers you know in terms of investments that they make alongside you does that -- does that mean they give you additional capital to invest with or do you use existing that they have given you? How should I think about that? There is two questions – there is two parts to what Ontario Teachers does with Aircastle.
First is they're big shareholder and that's -- that's the end of that.
I mean they are about an 8% or 9% shareholder of our company.
The second part of it is a joint venture where we have about a 30% stake in the assets that we buy.
So far the joint venture has purchased two aircraft that we sold to them.
And I think you're right.
The way to think about this is they give us more firepower.
But it's something that we -- we do together.
It's a joint decision.
I think the way you should think about it is that their economic approach is very similar to ours.
And so far our focus has been on using this to manage exposures and to pursue bigger deals.
Okay.
Perfect.
That was my only question.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
I guess most of my questions actually have been asked and answered.
The one that taking from a few of the previous ones that you had discussions about the market for used aircraft is there any kind of influence that we should be taking from that as to when you get to your kind of third quarter impairment review in terms of the amount of aircraft maybe that you have up for renewal and the values that you see in the marketplace? No.
When we did our annual review last year we did a very thorough very diligent process and if anything market conditions have strengthened a bit since then.
I can't give you a categorist answer because there's still some time left to go.
But the weak points in the market are on the older technology and on the freight market.
We took our lumps with the freight market and I think we will be largely gone out of older technology so not a guarantee but I think there's a lower exposure if you will.
Right and you had kind of said that you kind of thought of having only about less than 5% of the portfolio in that older technology.
What would that number have been if you kind of thought about it at this time a year ago? In fact there is a table on page 11 of our presentation that shows you the evolution of portfolio.
A year ago it would have been about 6% in terms of classic generation aircraft and now it's a little bit less than five.
I think the pace of change there's accelerating because of the strength of the market.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Justine.
Hi Justine.
My first question is on who is selling the aircraft that you guys want to buy? Obviously there are buyers for what you want to sell and the sale leaseback market in which a lot of [MDO] seems to be one kind of pipeline for you to acquire the aircraft that you want to buy but if there is a lot of capital misplace is it a company like an Air Lease or someone who is trying to sell assets that are close to the end of their first lease or who are the sellers of the stuff you want to buy? The best way to answer is Justine we've bought aircraft from about 70 different people in our life.
And in the first quarter we did a large sale-leaseback with LATAM.
That was with the airline and the other transaction were with lessors.
In both cases those were lessors that were exiting the industry.
Now we’ve done business over the last year with a number of larger lessors that are facing regulatory constraints and they have bank regulators or other folks looking after concentrations and we've been a very good counter-party with those guys and I see that a continuing source of business.
I think we'll be really uncompetitive as always in large purchase leaseback auctions because frankly there's so many guys out there with very low return expectations and different views about residual values that will lose.
And so we don't really spend that much time on those where we look to focus is where there are opportunities as with LATAM to help somebody manage a fleet or manage a situation that's a little bit less on the run.
Dealing with 777s with five or shorter year lease terms is something that we can do very well.
Of course we want to get the right price for that but we're not looking for the – for the most competitive places just the opposite.
Okay.
And then my second question is on the capital that's in the sector.
Clearly a lot has come in but I was wondering what your opinion is on how long dated it is or whether or not this has legs.
I think when we get the question from investors of how long people can expect this – this 7 strong bid for aviation assets to last? I mean is your sense that that this is kind a couple of years and then maybe if there's not a lot of opportunity the money could go away or is a lot of this kind of locked up for four or five years as a longer term investment in aviation so that we could expect there to be this bids out there for assets for quite a few years? Well I think it's different in the market that we're focusing on versus maybe your customers – your clients Justine.
If somebody is buying an aircraft they better be ready to hold it for a while.
You can't trade-in and out of that like you can debt.
I think the folks that are buying aircraft right now are a wide spectrum and expectations about holding and liquidity are all over the map and I don't think I could generalize that but aircraft are just not the same kind of liquidity even new ones as having a bond.
It's a big process to (indiscernible) lease and transfer – transfer aircraft get financing et cetera.
It's a month’s long process.
I don't think that the phenomenon we have here is – is going to last two years three years.
I think it’s more of a one or two year’s thing.
Simply I don't have any crystal ball here simply because things change and I haven't seen a – a rally that's lasted that long in a long time so that's just my guess.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Hey John.
Morning.
Ron I wanted to follow-up first on your commentary about new production and perhaps being interested in new production.
I'm just curious I know that you guys have been very return focused you know in the past and straight away from new production as a result.
What is changing about the nature of the opportunities with manufacturers? Are there slots available from customers that – that might be moving their positions around? I'm just curious what is catalyzing this kind of change in interest here? I want characterize it as a change in interest and I wouldn't characterize new production as equal to a new order.
I think sale-leasebacks and buying from other lessors is probably more likely than a new order.
Got it.
As I said we look at the world from a very different vantage point than most of our peers.
We are foregoing the certainty of and order stream because it also provides a certainty of a financing requirement and it doesn't -- and you have to get in our view a compensation for tying up capital and taking placement risk and having to drag of a pre-delivery payment stream.
And so we're not all made the same among the lessors we don't have a rich parent.
We are and independent company and we don't assume that somebody is going to be here to bail us out in case there is a slowdown in the market.
And so we've always had a more risk aversive approach to aircraft orders.
We've don’t it and we may do it again.
But I think the interest is probably more driven by the fact that there is a lot of new stuff coming online and we tend to be more competitive more positive about situations where the technology is just going to be relevant for a longer period of time.
Fair enough.
Maybe I misinterpreted what you were exactly getting at when you were talking about new production.
I'm just curious; in terms of capital allocation you've always distributed a good amount of cash to shareholders.
You've generally done it more with dividends than buybacks.
And I fully acknowledge that the stock had a great year last year.
For the last couple months and year-to-date it has been a bit of and underperformer.
Why aren't we talking about maybe more aggressively buying back stock here particularly with some of the positive kind of commentary we're' hearing about the market from you.
Look I think John we -- potentially buying back stock is always something we think about.
We don't look at stock reaction in a month and make decisions sort of rashly on that front.
We think about investing to grow the business and its profits we think about stock buybacks and we think about dividends.
And we will continue to do that and to the extent we sell more assets than we think and we don't see good in the future stock buybacks are certainly a possibility just like we have done in the past.
And so it's part of our portfolio of capital allocation tools and we'll continue to look at it to the extent we think it makes sense.
So is it fair to say that the new opportunities that you are looking at are better than the opportunity to buyback stock here? We think that there will still be opportunities to deploy capital in the business and at some point stock buybacks may be part of that again.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I'm just curious about part out activity these days.
Ron in the past you have talked about part outs as being a bottom floor value for some of your older aircraft.
I'm just curious if that's still the case or have prices moved enough that that's not really you know playing the role that it used to? Part outs are very relevant.
One -- first commentary --one first point part out value is not a constant in time okay? And as aircraft technology moves on as customer base drops the value of engines in particular which is the most part out value will drop out as well.
As we look at the -- as we look at the number much parked aircraft there's very few that are out there on the passenger side and so the demand for part out is pretty good.
You've got kind of a full employment scenario right now for the most part.
I don't think that's always going to be the case and so we find our moments to exit and that's been part of our plan this year.
But I think the – the part out value as it relates to things like A320s current generation aircraft are going to be remain strong.
For us it's an economics decision between parting out an aircraft like that and releasing it.
We made a decision based on the riskiness of a release versus the certainty of a part out to part out a number of kind of more marginal types 319s versus 320s older more run down aircraft we've got lots of cash reserves and that's still part of the mix.
What's changed a little bit is that the lease deployment looks a little bit better now than it did a year ago because rents are higher.
But it's something that we look at on a case-by-case basis and parts of our anticipated sale activity to for this year that I would call end-of-life arguably will include 737-700s.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And just last one on cargo.
You guys have done a good job sort of responding to what's been going on in the cargo market.
But I do feel like we've been hearing about oversupply in that market for quite some time.
I'm just curious you know is there anything changing on the horizon where the stars might align and finally this oversupply goes away? I'm not sure how you kind of think about those moving parts? Thanks.
Well supply has to be measured relative to demand.
Demand has picked up a little bit it.
It flat lined for three years and so that's a positive.
I think that there's a number of factors going on.
First the low interest rate environment high fuel prices have driven some shippers to move to different modes to shipping for example.
And as long as interest rates stay really low money is very low as fuel is very expensive air is much more uncompetitive in that respect and so that's going part of the dynamic.
The on-shoring of production is a factor.
Exchange rates are a factor.
But the big issue and it continues to be the main part of the story here is simply production and new capacity through belly space.
Boeing and Airbus have produced about a hundred new large wide bodies in the last three years and it's basically caused a glut and I think it's going to take a long time for that glut to be used up.
There's 40 part 747 freighters in the market right now.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thanks a lot Ron.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Michael Kass with BlueMountain Capital Management.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was trying to fit together some of the – the commentary around mid-life aircraft and I'm just curious if what you're seeing in terms of market strength is your sense that that's predominantly financial buyers and if so who are they leasing to? I'm curious kind of where you guys see the end market in terms of operators for those aircraft both on the narrow body and the wide-body side? For mid-age aircraft we've seen a really wide range of players both existing players – not the bigger companies but mid-size and smaller companies and a lot of new guys and most of the new guys are financial but they have in almost every case some sort of industry veteran or group of veterans working with them to help guide their investment.
So I think the -- it's not -- it's reasonably in for money.
The way in which they acquire aircraft varies case-by-case.
The aircraft we've sold have been a mix of aircraft with leases attached.
So there's no place to look hard and some of the guys are aligned with folks that have kind of part-out partners.
And so in those cases they're looking actually by design for shorter lease terms.
So it's really hard to generalize it.
So when you book a gain on sale is that to some extent just the monetization of the attached lease or like if you looked at the acquirer side is that gain mainly due to the fact that it's coming with a lease or how should we think about that? Well I'll give you two scenarios.
One is a scenario where there's and aircraft without a lease and there's obviously no lease to monetize.
It's just a question of what they can do with the value.
The guys that buy that kind of stuff are more often not in the business of trading parts and so they probably have a more efficient network of distributing parts and -- than we do that's not our business.
The second part of it is is a question of lease term and a view about -- and different people can have different views about how long the aircraft will last and how many dollars they can connect on the next monthly lease rental etcetera etcetera.
So it's series of a different perspective.
Where you see the monetization of lease value is really on the new airplanes where you have a long remaining lease term.
Got you.
And then shifting to the new airplanes I'm just -- can you give any sense for what your lease factor is on kind of the new aircraft I mean without getting into individual specific deals.
I'm just curious like in Q1 what was it on average? I'm just trying to -- it's obviously impacting just you said by lease accounting but also by the -- I'm just trying to get a sense for where your lease factor is going as you make the aircraft fleet on average younger? It's a bit of a tricky question.
I'm going to give you kind of a really broad range in a framework for thinking about it.
The first is that new air planes typically we finance with debt and so it's sort of a ROE question at the end of the day.
Right? And so what we're leaning for in those context is 15% or better okay? That's the first thing to think about.
Second issue is price.
And the high price can give you high lease rate factor doesn't mean its better.
Sorry – vice versa.
So we typically end up with new aircraft with lease rate factors of 0.9 maybe 1%.
It's really all over the map.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Thanks.
And Mike we're running out of time.
So I will follow-up with you with additional questions to the extent you have some open items.
Operator? Thank you.
And we have one final question that comes from Matthew Dodson calling from JWest LLC.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Can you just talk about what you’re seeing for the lease rates on your A320s and I don’t think you have nay A319s do you? We do have some but they are not coming off lease this year.
We only have one 320 lease this year it’s a nine year old airplane coming out at the end of the year.
I think that market is going to be somewhere in the it’s going to be north of 200 whether it’s 200 230 or somewhere in that ballpark is a question.
Who is the credit quality and – credit quality the current party how long of lease term is going to be longer lease term equal shorter rental from my – in my view and we’re kind of technical because we’re still having a transaction.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I would say that probably about I don’t know 5% and 10% higher than it was a year ago.
This is a reference point.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
We look forward to seeing you next week in New York City.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at anytime and have a great day.