Our first question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jonathan.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> A quick question just on the CapEx and I guess therefore the rate base ranges.
Could you talk to what it is in the base the bottom-end of the range? Is that just authorized spending? And then the other things that you mentioned are what defines the shaded sections or is there some other way of being a little more clear about what exactly is in and out of the two pieces two different levels? So Jonathan this is Kent.
Let me kind of go through by parts of the business which really relate to the regulatory proceedings.
So for the electric and gas distribution and generation which is our General Rate Case the high end reflects the amounts that we've requested in the 2017 General Rate Case.
For gas transmission the high end in 2017 reflects the amount that we requested in the gas transmission rate case.
And then in 2018 and 2019 we've just kept that amount flat with the 2017 request.
And then for electric transmission which is our TO Case we've really only requested an amount through 2016 our TO17 case.
And so our 2017 through 2019 levels are flat at the 2016 request.
For the low end basically it's consistent with the low end that we've had out there already for 2016 across the board.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how about your distributions resource plan for example? Where does that fit into this – the range? Is that in the high end or not? We did not have a specific ask in that proceeding but a lot of those types of investments for automating the system and so forth are included in our General Rate Case.
So those components are included in the overall ask and therefore in the overall range the upper end of the range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So put simply if you got everything you've asked for in both of the big outstanding cases you would come in at the high end? That's correct.
And then of course we'll have updates because at some point we'll file another gas transmission case for beyond 2017 and we'll also file additional transmission owner cases for beyond 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Kent.
That was my question.
Thanks.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Can I just ask about with the El Niño concerns about the storms in the preparations there? How do you guys address cost recovery if you end up with some disproportionally high storm costs this year I guess next year? And how would that affect the numbers as we think about ongoing earnings estimates? This is Kent.
We do have the balancing account treatment in our current General Rate Case for major storms.
In addition for things like the wildfires we just had where – in cases where the Governor declares a disaster area we also have the ability to seek recovery through a catastrophic event memorandum account.
So there is a few different mechanisms that are in place in California.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I guess the next question Tony with the electric vehicle charging station decision it was kind of a deviation from what you guys seem have been messaged from the Governor as far as his priorities are concerned A how do think this is going to work out from meeting the Governor's rules on vehicles? But second when you look at the DRP is there a disconnect between the goals of the Governor and what the Commission's proving to be supportive of you guys investing in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well obviously we thought that our initial proposal was totally consistent with the Governor's goals on electric vehicles.
I think the Commission felt it was overly aggressive and wants to phase it in and in terms of our spending estimates since it takes a while to gear up it really doesn't affect any of the numbers that Kent is talking about.
We just want to get the program up and running and we think that once we get it running we'll show that it's very well received and is consistent with the electric vehicle strategy in California.
So it was disappointing we didn't get the full green light but we're going to continue to work to get still a fairly aggressive program out there.
And then I guess just what it means as far as the pacing of DRP capital.
Is there going to be more of a test for each one of these new initiatives along the way rather than maybe a more wholesale buy in of what you need to do to accomplish the bigger state goals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think as Kent just said a minute ago that the DRP capital is spread among the various regulatory cases.
So our General Rate Case has some of it in – and that's where it will be addressed and it's being addressed now.
We've submitted that case and it will go through the hearing process.
So I don't expect a separate rate making proceeding for DRP.
DRP expenditures will just be rolled into various other proceedings.
Okay.
And I guess one last question just with the Edison case where the manufacturing tax deductions are they're trying to slap them as a reduction in rate base and the next rate case to claw back those earnings.
How is that affecting you guys from maybe the way you're thinking about recognizing those earnings those benefits during this GRC process and if there was a precedent that the Commission was pulling those back would you guys need to change how you're recognizing them in your numbers? Hi Dan.
This is Dinyar Mistry the Controller.
We've taken a look at the Edison PD and we think that our situation is different from Edison.
We just filed our 2017 GRC so prospectively the Commission will consider our request over there.
But at this point in time we don't anticipate changing our treatment.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
So first of all Kent I guess an early good-bye.
We will miss you.
Secondly on the similar question regarding the Edison PD on their GRC.
Is there any policy issues there that concern you at all relative to your case? The major issue we've seen has been the repairs issue which Dinyar just addressed and we do think we are in a little bit different situation.
That's the biggest one that we've been watching.
Great.
And then the – maybe just on the criminal case.
I know there has been a lot of activity.
Can you maybe just give us an update on whether any of the allegations have been thrown out at this point and do we still have some kind of trial in March of next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Tony.
Let me start off and then I'll let Hyun jump in.
Those of you who have been involved in major litigations this is just the pre-trial motions stage there is a lot of activity going on there will continue to be more activity leading up to the trial.
The trial is still scheduled for next spring.
We'll see what happens as we get closer to it but Hyun why don't you comment on where we are.
Yeah.
So Steve we did file a number of motions and all the motions have been submitted to the Judge so we're just waiting for the Judge to issue his ruling on our motions.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the GT&amp;S case I know there is oral arguments today but in terms of – is any relevant updates there in terms of potential outcomes we should be aware of? Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Hi this is Steve Malnight from Reg Affairs.
Really we don't have any additional updates timing still looks like next year for the case.
We'll look forward to the oral argument later today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi guys.
Congratulations Kent by the way.
Thanks Mike.
Hey when do you guys think you will be in a position to discuss 2016 guidance and dividend policy? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well that's something that we look at every time I'm with my board of directors.
We discussed that dividend policy.
We've not tied it to any specific outcome at the Commission what we are focusing on is what is the right time to address that.
I'm well aware that our investors have been very patient on this.
We're committed to getting our dividend in line with our peers but it's got to be at the right time and we continue to assess that.
In terms of timing of guidance I'd just say we're looking towards hopefully getting back in a regular rhythm with guidance.
And I'd like to think we'll be in a position to do that in the first quarter.
Great.
And just one follow-up question on the repairs deduction issue.
Can you just refresh how are you guys treating it and how – is there any simple way to explain why your situation is different than the Edison's? Yeah.
This is Dinyar again.
So the rate making for repairs is that customer rates are reduced for taxes that aren't currently paid to the IRS.
That's the fundamental principle of the flow through rate making and to the extent that there is a forecast difference between what was in the rate case and what actually occur during that rate case period up or down that forecast difference affects the bottom line.
I would say the primary difference between us and the Edison Case is that in the Edison PD it's indicated that its previous GRC request was based on a different methodology for calculating the tax repairs than was actually applied during that period.
But for us we've applied the same methodology for our actuals that we used to develop the forecast and so I think that's probably the key difference.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Yeah guys.
Just curious when you think about longer-term do you expect to be a company that winds up growing earnings kind of in pace with rate base growth? Is there anything structural that can make it something different than that over time? Michael this is Kent.
I think at the levels of rate base growth and CapEx frankly that we are having right now they do require some equity issuance.
And so generally you'll see earnings grow with rate base but you'd have to net out whatever equity issuance you need to support that level of CapEx.
At lower levels you could see that but we're at higher levels and I do think that requires some level of equity issuance.
Got it.
Okay.
Second Tony you made the comment about you talked to the board about dividend and dividend policy.
Can you dive a little bit into the – when you think about dividend policy are we talking a payout ratio a growth rate a dividend yield target relative to the peer group? I'm just going to think about what are the metrics you and the board are looking at when you all have the discussions about dividend policy.
This is Kent.
I'll just say generally probably the primary metric we look at is payout ratio.
We look at the industry and it's pretty nicely clumped.
So it's pretty easy to see where the industry is and we're a bit below that.
And so that's the primary issue we'll be addressing.
Got it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Much appreciated.
Hi.
Thank you.
Two questions.
One I was just wondering if you might bring us up to date on any developments that could shed light on potential outcomes of the Gas Distribution Records OII? And then similarly whether there been any developments with respect to the CAL FIRE investigation into the origins of the Butte bush fire? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me comment on the CAL FIRE.
Their investigation is ongoing we're cooperating with it we don't have any updates.
Traditionally those investigations take quite some time because it's hard because all the evidence is burned up.
So it takes a lot of work to figure out exactly what happened.
With respect to other proceedings Steve you – I don't think we have any updates there.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> No we don't really have any updates on the OII.
We saw the SED filing as was mentioned earlier we'll file our rebuttal testimony in November and then we'd expect hearings on that in January first part of the year.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Question on dividend going back to that.
Given some of the changes that will take place in the C-Suite over the next 12 months does that to some degree make you think that you ought to maintain flexibility on the dividend until the next set of C-Suite executives comes in or does that not factor into your thinking about how you think about the timing of a dividend policy going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think it has any connection at all to dividend policy.
Dividend policy is based upon our financial situation and our assessment of what's going on on the regulatory front and doesn't have anything to do with the C-Suite changes.
Okay.
Understood.
Secondly on the cost of capital mechanism and the proceedings that will come up next year it seems like mechanically the numbers are shaping out where an extension perhaps may not be too difficult of a suggestion to different stakeholders.
I guess what I'm wondering is are you aware of any issues out there that may prevent some of the stakeholders from wanting to consider an extension of the current mechanism any issues that may need to be worked through that could prevent that and instead make a full-blown cost of capital proceeding take place? Brian this is Kent.
So as you alluded to the normal process would have us file a cost of capital application next spring and that would be for rates effective January 2017.
And I think what you are alluding to I think everybody knows that last year we and the other parties all agreed to extend the existing cost of capital as well as trigger mechanism by one year.
And so the question is will that happen again this year.
And I'd just say we are open to exploring that again given that as you said forecast bond rates haven't changed all that much since the proceeding was originally litigated but whether or not that occurs depends on the extent to which all the parties are able to reach agreement.
So I guess at this point you're not aware of any specific issues that may cause one or two of the stakeholders to say we really ought to revisit this despite the mathematics looking fairly similar versus last year? Brian if I were I wouldn't be talking about it with investors.
Understood.
And then lastly there has been a lot of consolidation happening in the industry.
If Tony you could give just your quick thoughts on consolidation how you think about it in the industry here.
A lot of your peers have been using their balance sheets and I think it's safe to say that the California utilities are in a much better balance sheet position than others.
Just your latest thoughts there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean generally we don't comment on specifics on M&amp;A opportunities.
I will say one interesting observation though is everyone is buying a gas company we've already got 4.5 million gas customers.
I think we're in a pretty good shape.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
You mentioned that as you get out to 2017 and 2018 your forecast for rate base on – your forecast includes flat assumptions for the gas and electric transmission.
Is there maybe since you are going to update it at some point is there a better modeling assumption that we might use? Or with those updates maybe get you to the higher end of rate base growth that you are thinking about? This is Kent.
We've just done that because it's a fairly mechanical way to do it and we don't want to call future cases that we've not yet filed so but you can apply judgment to it you can look at our historic track record what we've done over the last few years adjust that.
Whatever you think is appropriate we just try to keep it simple and objective when we present it to you for your consideration.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my follow-up.
Real quick on the rate base chart or exhibit slide 12 that still excludes the incremental CWIP that actually generates some earnings.
I think that is the number of around $1 billion $1.7 billion $1.8 billion somewhere in that range.
You have commented historically that that earnings from CWIP while not in rate base would largely be offset by corporate costs that aren't recoverable in rates.
Do you still see that trend or is there the potential to manage some of those corporate costs down over time? This is Kent again.
No I think nothing has really changed there.
I think that's a reasonable assumption to make going forward.
I think I've said several times a lot of the stuff we do that is below the line is really important to the longer-term success of the company and our financials.
It includes our advertising a lot of our charitable contribution just bread and butter for a utility and we're going to continue to make those necessary investments.
Got it.
Thank you Kent.
Once again congratulations.
Thanks Michael.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Going back to the long-term outlook for CapEx and that discussion what is the impact from SB 350? How long out and is that included in any kind of near-term CapEx or GRC? Just your thoughts around that.
Well SB 350 really one of the primary components of it is the RPS requirements in the state.
And generally we have already been on track to meet the 33% RPS this would now take us to 50% eventually.
We do that primarily through long-term contracting.
So it doesn't have a direct implication for our own CapEx which are primarily our distribution and transmission businesses.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Although I will add one place we may see some opportunities is in additional transmission out there.
We've been successful in the competitive transmission bidding process here in California in the last couple of years we continue to intend to stay involved in that process.
But all of that is outside any of the years that we've been showing on the slides because recall that the current 33% is a 2020 objective.
And so the new SB 350 requirements will start showing up in the 2020s and you'd see transmission in that timeframe.
So I think the only conclusion you can draw is given California's commitment to a clean energy environment it's going to require the utilities to have continued investment to upgrade the system.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then different subject what is your appetite right now for ex-California outside of California or unregulated type of investments? Obviously the SolarCity moves you have made here seem to be a pullback on that front.
What's your thoughts and appetites for that unregulated type of investment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We continue to look at those opportunities.
I think I've said this before the California affiliate rules make it very difficult to start from scratch because there is – it's very hard to take your utility expertise and without taking them away from the utility and moving into a totally separate company and they can't even talk to their colleagues back at the old business it's hard to justify when we've got so many growth opportunities in the utility right now.
Okay great.
Appreciate the thoughts.
All right.
This is Janet again.
I want to thank everyone for joining us and we hope you have a safe day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!