Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q3 2014 earnings call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Erica.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I'd like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I'd like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome.
During this call I want to share with you an overview of Aircastle's performance during the third quarter our perspectives on the business environment and our plans both for the near-term and long-term future.
Mike will then address Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
During the third quarter as we have throughout the year we see some favorable market conditions and focused on three main areas: number one capturing value-enhancing investments to position the company for future growth; number two improving our portfolio and derisking our business; and three continuing to improve our capital structure.
Progress in these areas will lead to improved financial performance.
Our results pair this out as our cash ROE for the quarter was 12.8%.
Our growth portfolio quality improvements and consistently strong credit metrics along with an enhanced capital structure have put us on a path towards investment grade credit ratings.
This is important because at the top of our strategic comparatives for the company is to maintain good and well priced access to capital throughout the business cycle.
During the first three quarters we closed more than $1 billion in investments.
We're also finishing off 2014 quite nicely as we plan to complete another $750 million of acquisitions by the end of the first quarter next year.
In fact we've already closed a-third of this this quarter.
Much of our recent success is in winning businesses driven by our ability to move more quickly and decisively than our competitors.
That's why Aircastle is known as an extremely reliable confident and nimble counterparty to airlines and lessors around the world.
As yearend 2014 approaches we continue to make excellent progress towards improving our business.
Our asset sales activities are a great case in point as we've capitalized on strong market conditions to sell 37 mostly older aircraft during the first three quarters.
In doing so we've derisked our portfolio while also netting more than $13 million.
Thanks to this excellent work by our team on asset sales together with the high quality of our new investments we're further enhancing Aircastle's portfolio quality while cash net interest margins are among the highest in the industry.
During Q3 our cash net interest margin was nearly 10%.
We've capitalized on strong lease demand by addressing a lease roll-off aggressively.
We have no unplaced aircraft for 2014 and our fleet utilization during the third quarter was a 100%.
Also including signed letters of intent we now have only five aircraft left to place next year.
Throughout the year we've continued to work on enhancing our capital structure to lock in today's low interest rate costs and longer terms.
We've also increased the size of our unsecured warehouse and lengthened its term providing us with better financial flexibility.
Last week Aircastle celebrated its 10<sup>th</sup> anniversary.
We started from scratches a new breed of aircraft leasing company that pioneered several important developments in our market.
We're the first to the current generation of listed leasing companies to go public which we did a little over eight years ago.
We introduced the idea of sharing a portion of earnings with investors through dividends and have paid out $540 million in dividends since going public.
We've been a leader in debt capital markets innovations including issuing the first simplified and more straightforward securitization deal and we were an early participant in the unsecured bond market.
As an important point of differentiation we see ourselves first and foremost as investors investors with a unique point of view on and expertise in commercial aviation.
We also remain committed to allocating capital effectively appropriately and efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
In this regard we're pleased to announce a 10% increase in our dividend bringing it to $0.22 per share quarterly.
This move reflects the board's and our management team's confidence about the growth in the company's earning space and its prospects.
It also marks the 34<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter where we've declared a dividend.
The board also authorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
We view this to be an important capital allocation tool that can add value to shareholders.
Over the past several years we bought back nearly $140 million of our shares at prices that were well below book value.
At this point we're well placed to move forward and to build on the achievements of the past decade.
We have a terrific team that provides us unique point of view and skill sets to pursue different investment opportunities across our sector.
Our capital structure is flexible and low cost and it allows us to act decisively in market opportunities as they arise.
In Marubeni and Ontario Teachers we have great globally oriented long-term minded shareholding partners and we're also privileged to have a world-class board of directors that provide great insights and guidance.
We're enthusiastic about what the future holds for Aircastle.
We're planning not only at being a best-in-class company that we are today but also growing into a top-tier player in our industry that remains focused on delivering strong financial returns.
As we look at the business environment we see mostly positives.
However financial market volatility has increased over the past several months and we're keeping a close eye on several geopolitical developments and health issues.
On the plus side passenger traffic has continued to grow at a healthy rate of almost 6% this year despite macro challenges highlighting a robust nature of this expansion.
However sluggish economic activity in Europe unrest in certain parts of the world and fear surrounding the Ebola virus could pose challenges to the global airline industry's ability to continue growing at this rate.
The good news is that the most recent airline result suggest that profitability remained strong and that health concerns aren't keeping people from flying.
From a portfolio risk management perspective we're monitoring hotspots diligently and taking advantage of strong global demand by driving our lease placements toward stronger lease counterparties.
Passenger aircraft rentals remain steady in good levels benefiting from robust traffic growth very high load factors and limited modern aircraft availability.
We're tapping into this strength by securing new lease placements and extensions as far out as we reasonably can.
Another important positive development is that should benefit airline profitability significantly is the decline in fuel cost.
Jet fuel is the single biggest P&amp;L item for airlines.
There are almost 20% drop in kerosene prices since June is noteworthy but remains to be seen whether these low fuel prices are sustainable.
In general lower fuel prices are also very positive for current technology aircraft values.
On that cautionary side that we're seeing a little bit of a pick up in air cargo demand that remains a glut of supply and load factors this year are still only around 45%.
We remain convinced this sector remains widely important but are concerned about new aircraft production levels both main deck cargo aircrafts as well as new wide-body models with large belly capacities and will take a significant and sustained increase in demand to observe the supply growth.
Mike will discuss the actions we've taken regarding our freighter assets.
We've seen tremendous growth in new orders.
This is at least in part related to the many new models coming online over the next few years.
The waiting list for new aircraft goes out to the end of the decade and quite a bit beyond that for some generations of new aircraft.
However a significant portion of the recent orders are from leasing companies and some operators.
We're attracted by the efficiency gains these models provide and I am convinced there will be big investors in these aircraft.
However we're not only price sensitive but also worry about tying capital up for a long time alongside with many other lessors particularly when we consider the broad and varying range of investment opportunities in our business overtime.
As we think about the current business environment it's important to keep in mind the broader historical context where our industry is growing consistently at a multiple of 1.5x to 2x global GDP.
On the other hand we also see ebbs and flows of capital into our sector and from time-to-time market conditions become more volatile.
We are decidedly growth minded but our core operating principles remain disciplined investors who take a longer view of how we develop the company while being fully prepared to exploit prudent opportunities as they present themselves.
Going forward to the next decade and beyond we're undoubtedly looking to build on what's turning out to be a terrific 2014 for the company.
We remain open-minded and flexible about new investment opportunities.
We also remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive less compeller to the value additive consistent with our business model.
To the extent investment opportunities arise because of market disturbances or special situations we'll continue to be in an excellent position to capture them as we've done recently.
We projected the introduction of new aircraft models across every size category and will provide us with substantial financing and re-fleeting opportunities.
These play well to our strengths as prudent acquires of both new and used aircraft.
We're disciplined investors and continue to target at least 15% leverage cash returns.
As we've done from the beginning we'll continue to look for good investment realization opportunities to redeploy capital more optimally.
Low interest rates and the search by investors around the world for higher yielding assets have driven aircraft prices up across the board allowing us to capitalize by divesting older aircraft with less favorable future earnings power.
Prudent well-timed aircraft divestiture and acquisition are an integral component of our risk exposure strategy.
In final analysis we remain focused on increasing cash returns and adjusted earnings while managing the company for the long-term.
We're in a solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings and our efforts have always been and will continue to be targeted to generating stable cash flow efficiently allocating capital between investments and returning capital to shareholders at appropriate stages and market cycle and creating value profits and dividends to our investors through our differentiated approach in this category.
I'll now hand it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As Ron mentioned with over $1 billion of accretive aircraft acquisition closed and about $750 million expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2015 as well as over $560 million of assets sold this year.
We continue to execute on our value-based investment approach leading to healthy and improving profits and operating cash flows.
Turning to our results for the third quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were up $180.3 million up 9% or $15.1 million year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft investments and sales.
Total revenues for the quarter were $177.6 million up $7.5 million or 4% from the previous year driven by higher lease rental revenue and finance lease revenues of $15.1 million; lower amortization of net lease discounts and incentives of $8.7 million due primarily to lease incentive reversals of $5.3 million related to maintenance work which will not be performed during the lease.
These improvements were partially offset by lower maintenance revenue of $17.1 million that includes $8.7 million of contra-maintenance associated with engine restoration work performed in connection with scheduled return of two 737-800s during the third quarter and $12.1 million of maintenance revenue in the quarter of 2013 related to an unscheduled leased termination involving a 767-300 aircraft which was subsequently sold.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 was $177.4 million versus $169.2 million last year.
Higher lease rental and finance lease revenues of $15.1 million and higher gains in the sale of flight equipment of $8.3 million were partially offset by lower maintenance revenue of $17.1 million.
During the third quarter we completed our annual fleet review and determined the cash flow is expected to be generated by two of our MD-11 freighters as a result of changing the expected lives and the residual values did not support their carrying value and we recorded $20.4 million of pre-cash impairment charges or approximately $0.25 a share.
In addition for our five Boeing 747-400 production freighters all of which passed the recoverability assessment we've shortened the expected useful lives from 35 years to 30 years from the production date.
We are continuing to reduce our freighter exposure.
Today the share of our portfolio is half of what it was two years ago and we expect this to continue to shrink.
Over the past year we've sold or designated for sale seven freighter aircraft and also found new leases for four units.
So this is an actively managed process.
We expect to exit the older MD-11s and 747 converted freighters over the next five years which would leave us with a total freighter fleet of five newer and relatively more efficient main deck units within the context of a large and growing business.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $26.6 million up $95.6 million year-over-year reflects $7.5 million of higher revenues $85.7 million of lower non-cash aircraft impairment charges $8.3 million of higher gains on sale of flight equipment and $3.1 million lower adjusted interest expense.
Partially offsetting these improvements were $5.1 million of higher depreciation expense and higher income taxes of $4.1 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was $56.8 million a decrease of $1 million over the prior year due primarily to lower interest expense on borrowings of approximately $3 million driven by lower weighted interest costs.
This was partially offset by higher amortization on deferred hedge losses reflecting the repayment of securitization number one earlier this year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.8 million up approximately $1 million over the prior year reflecting higher professional fees and personnel costs.
Depreciation was up $5.1 million to $75.5 million for the quarter reflecting the growth in the portfolio year-over-year.
Our tax provision for the quarter was $3.5 million reflecting an effective tax rate of approximately 16%.
At the end of the third quarter we owned 140 aircraft with a net book value of $5.3 billion including 85 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $2.9 billion or approximately 55% of the net book value of flight equipment.
For the third quarter our portfolio lease rental yield was 13.2% and our net cash interest margin was 9.9% demonstrating the consistency and strength of the business.
And our cash ROE was approximately 12.8%.
At the end of the quarter we had $474 million of unrestricted cash and $450 million of unused revolving credit capacity.
Total borrowings at the end of the quarter were $3.7 billion including $2.2 billion of unsecured debt.
Our weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.75% at the end of the quarter versus 5.37% at the end of last year.
Our weighted average debt maturity is approximately 4.5 years as of the end of the quarter.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 1.9x and we're in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facility.
We have included certain guidance element through the fourth quarter in our earnings PowerPoint that was posted to our website earlier this morning.
To summarize we've ended the third quarter on a strong note.
Our business is performing well operating cash flow is increasing and we continue to successfully execute our value-oriented investment strategy while effectively managing the portfolio and improving the overall quality of our fleet.
With that operator we're happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
So my first one was on your comments Ron regarding investment grade credit rating.
It seems that you're a little bit more vocal about being on the path towards achieving that so I was wondering what was driving that.
Did you have more constructive conversations with the rating agencies? If you could just provide more color that be helpful? We've always felt that from a credit metric perspective we're clearly in the zone of company that should be rated that way.
The growth in the company and the momentum we've got on the acquisition side leads me to believe we're inching closer to that level.
I don't know when that will be.
But it's been clear from our conversations with the rating agencies that they view us to be undersized.
So as we maintain our credit profile as we improve our quality of our portfolio and get bigger I would think that that would lead to an investment grade rating overtime.
And then just another follow-up on some commentary.
I believe it was mentioned that over the next five years you plan to exit from the 747 and MD-11 freighters and I was wondering how you would go about doing that.
Would you be selling them or just parting them out? It will be a combination of both.
We have over the last year or two sold a number of aircrafts.
In some cases they were part outs and some cases they were sales.
And we'll continue to look at opportunities.
The answer depends on the context of course.
And then maybe just one last one on the A330 deal.
I know you have a few currently in your fleet and it's recently been reported that Airbus plans to cut the production of that airplane by 10%.
I am just hoping you could talk through how that decision will probably impact your view on the asset regarding residual value risk long-term supply versus demand et cetera.
The introduction of the neoA330 was a little bit of a surprise but the fact that there is a successor to the A330 was not.
It's kind of evolved in a different path than we would have expected say two years ago.
But I don't think it changes the punch line aircraft get replaced inevitably and what we try to do is to be as prudent as we can about expected future values so net-net I don't think there's a huge change.
I am still skeptic about the neo program.
I think from an investors' perspective it's important to get a production run as long enough in order to get a critical mass.
We look at it not from an operator's perspective but from a lessor who is going to need several customers over the life of the aircraft.
So I am not clear on how long that neo model will actually be in production.
I realize we're still early as it relates to any longer term ramifications of cheaper fuel.
The obvious question is whether you're already seeing any changes in what your customers are asking for.
Any firming of pricing on aircraft that maybe as recently as August were viewed as fuel cost prohibitive but today are making more economic sense? I mean if fuel does stay here how does your portfolio composition change over the next I don't know five-years? The market demand for the most marginal aircraft is going to be where you see the biggest change given the drop in fuel prices.
And we've heard anecdotal evidence that 75s and 76s for example are getting a new lease another turn that that we might not have anticipated otherwise.
And that actually also percolates into the engine market as well which is relevant for some of our portfolio actions.
I think the longer-term effect is probably going to be felt more along the current generation of aircrafts whether it's A320s with the current engine option or new-gen current generation 737s I think those will from a pricing perspective look a lot better than say a very expensive new neo or max that relies on big fuel savings to make its economic case.
So it remains to be seen Jamie how long this fuel price drop remains but if it does then there needs to be a repricing of the new aircraft versus existing ones.
Follow-up and we've asked this question in the past but if I handed I don't know pick a number $300 million in cash over to you right now would you immediately put it to use in the aircraft market and if so where? I am very excited about the investment opportunities we've been seeing.
I made some comments during the prepared remarks about bit of a surge in activity for ourselves over the last few weeks.
It's been both with regards to new aircraft as well as mid-age aircraft.
The mid-age aircraft in order to be a player there you need to have access to unsecured debt because in order to seize the opportunities you have to be able to move quickly that's why we want a number of these things.
And what we are seeing our unlevered yields of 9% to 10% with very low risk profile; good credits very high cash flow and in that context you kind of have to be situated well.
The guy on the street can't do this and we've actually beat out a number of the newer players in the sector in that regard.
We found special situations on new aircraft actually.
And there the key to success is also having affordably priced secured debt.
That's probably a more broadly applicable scenario but in order to win those yields as well we bought with cash and intend to back lever in time.
I think there is good values especially when there's special situations that pop up so we are not averse to market volatility as long as our house is in order.
Since you just completed your annual aircraft portfolio valuation review I wonder if you'd be willing to share with us what the appraised value relative to the $5.3 billion of assets you reported at the end of September was? Gary I think the simple answer is I think our appraised value is very consistent with the values that we put on our books.
And we do our own independent value because the appraised values tend to be quite generic.
They don't take into consideration the lease rate for example or the maintenance condition or the quality of the customer.
We think our view of the value of the portfolio is quite nicely matching up with the book value.
Also Ron the last time you bought stock I think it was almost two years ago maybe little less.
The stock was trading at maybe a 60% of book value.
Today you're much closer to parity.
So do you think of the authorization as dry powder if we have something that we had in early October where the stock unexpectedly dips and then there's a buying opportunity or do you see more of a sort of an ongoing buy back program even at current levels? Your first characterization is a reasonable way to think about it at the moment.
Then we just think having an authorization in place and being able to look at allocating capital whether it's buying planes or buying back stock on a continues basis is just the right way to run this business.
And last one Ron is it fair to assume that your joint venture partner has the same view of placing forward orders with the OEMs as you do? Yes.
I think the capability of the joint venture is also probably less just institutionally.
To buy aircraft into the future you got to make deposits you got to make pre-delivery payments and we had more tools in our arsenal because of our unsecured revolver for example and that entity does not.
They are very much focused on to find the opportunities and we work together primarily on exposure management and working on bigger deals together that's been very successful and we're pleased with how this turned out.
In fact during the third quarter we sold to the joint venture a 777 that we have on lease to LATAM which had been our biggest customer prior to the sale.
Your comment Ron on you're comfortable that book value is close to market value.
Do I take it then -- do you believe we've come to the end of the impairments that you've made on a fairly continual basis over the last few years? And is it really just related to the impairments that you're earning now related to freighters? Andrew there is a lot of factors that go into impairments.
I direct you to the PowerPoint presentation that we've posted on our website.
There is a page in there that talks about the fleet review and recoverability analysis and what it shows in the bottom is an evolution of what we call them aircraft monitoring list.
These are the aircraft that we consider to be most vulnerable to impairments.
They're not a perfect guide.
And in either direction actually on the list that we have today we have one aircraft that we expect to sell shortly for a modest profit.
But directionally I think what it shows you is that we've reduced the risky assets in our portfolio dramatically.
Hand-in-hand with that has been the reduction of the freighter fleet and the more conservative residual and depreciation policy we've used.
I can't say it won't happen again but we think we've taken prudent actions.
And on your relationship with Marubeni.
I mean are you getting closer to doing actual real transactions or is that still very much in the future? Until you close you never know but we have a lot of irons in the fire and we're optimistic.
And then final question on I believe Airbus is reviving its A-320 freighter conversion project which in a few years done.
I know you're reducing your exposure in freighters but you are the freighter expert.
Can you give much credence to that program and do you think it could be a meaningful support of residual values on your A-320 321 fleet I don't think it's a big support of residual values.
I think there has been a surge in 737-400 freighter conversion activity.
We've watched that.
We have a few aircraft in our fleet that -- actually the last of our classics is about to be sold.
So we'll be out of those completely.
But we haven't been tempted to jumping in there because of two reasons.
Number one it's a descent size upfront investment relative to the value of the aircraft and that's been particularly the case for the airbus program that's been I think probably the fundamental problem into why it didn't go forward in the first place.
I'm not sure if they fundamentally address that cost issue.
But the second part of it is that for the aircraft that we've seen you've got a balance the reinvestment cost versus the decline in residual value from getting out now.
And we haven't been able to make that math work.
We don't rule that out categorically I just don't see that as a huge driver of value either for our portfolio or more generally.
Just a question.
Ron you mentioned political volatility Europe is slow any change in the watch list or accounts receivable trend you've seen? Accounts receivable actually look really good right now but the time to watch accounts receivable always every year is during the winter when traffic tends to slow down.
We're obliviously concerned about Russia we're concerned about the weaker carriers in economies that are suffering from disturbances or slowing growth rates but at the moment things look pretty good.
And then just on oil prices again if oil prices sit here at these levels is there a risk that maybe mid-life aircraft start getting bid up to maybe uneconomic levels and you have to shift strategy to maybe the newer aircraft or OEM aircraft or maybe didn't obviously perform a value you'd shift to a new aircraft strategy? Our strategy is to be flexible.
More than anybody else in our space we've adapted based on what the market gives and we have the financial flexibility and the capital structure to behave that way.
I'd also add that buying aircraft is a little bit of a different skill set than buying used aircraft and managing them.
And I don't think most of the bigger leasing companies are quite as adept at that as we are.
So we are as I said during the last call we see good value at mid-aged narrow-bodies.
The proposition looks only better now with lower fuel prices but it's a situational question and with all the different opportunities in the market we'll look across the board.
And one follow-up question.
People talked about the all the capital flowing in the space.
You mentioned a couple of special situations that you were able to take advantage of because of the strong balance sheet.
But in more generic situations are you noticing more bidders showing up or more buyers showing up than have been in the past for mid-life aircraft since the decline in oil prices? The oil prices haven't changed anything in that regard.
I don't think the investment market is that agile but what I would say though is that versus a year ago that the demand for mid-age aircraft is certainly higher and most of the players are newer.
And that's one of the reasons we've been so successful with our sales program.
But the increase in the capital is across the board it's for end-of-life aircraft it's for new airplanes and what happens in our space also is that volatility affects different deals in different ways.
So one of the examples that I had alluded to it in terms of deals that we won were for brand new aircraft for Avianca.
That was a deal that involved an Asian lessor which wasn't able to deliver on its commitments and we were able to sweep and be a cash buyer.
And I think it had left our customer very happy.
This is James Ulan on for Moshe.
Boeing recently announced that they are increasing production of the 737 family from 47 to 52.
Can you give some thoughts on what that might mean for lease rates values and residual values? Well this increase doesn't kick in for about another four five years so that incremental increase is hard to quantify but directionally when there is more of anything it drives the price down.
We're concerned about the overall level of production.
This doesn't really change the equation very much in the near term but it also has a bearing on how we think about new orders.
I am that much less inclined to make a new order for an aircraft and have to compete with that much more supply.
Ron just a follow-up to the questions earlier on the rating agencies.
You mentioned that they are focused on size.
Do you think they're focused at all about composition or are you where you need to be on the composition of the portfolio with the sale of some of your sort of tail-end aircraft? I don't think you can discount that but it's important to take into consideration all the positive moves we made to our portfolio over the last couple of years.
The profile is so much better from an asset mix perspective from an age perspective the credit metrics are terrific and I think if anything all that leads to a better case on our part.
And I can play devil's advocate for a minute here in terms of your desire to sell some of your older aircraft and the freighters and so forth.
Just wondering freighters markets coming back older aircraft in theory; I know there's not an immediate reaction to lower oil and so forth and you talked about this but some of these higher yielding older assets I am just sort of wondering where do you think the sweet spot is? I know you think it's in the mid-life aircraft but I am just sort of wondering if the attractiveness is a little bit further out the curve.
Some of the stuff you've been trying to get rid of have you had a discussion with the Board about maybe taking the step back from the process to call the portfolio or you're just not going to be swayed by short term oil in here basically is what I am wondering.
Well let me give you a little color on what we sold this year.
Of the 37 airplane we sold if I take out the new 777 sold through our joint venture the average age was about 17 years.
I don't believe that most of those aircraft are situations where we personally wish to reinvest in those by extending leases if those were the scenarios.
There is a trade-off between the decline in the value of the metal and reinvesting and kind of doing another lease-turn because when you do that lease placement you also have to make a commitment to fund a certain portion of maintenance that was burned off before that lease began.
So it's a pretty careful analysis on our part.
Absolutely fuel on the margin is a positive but I don't think it changes my view about whether I want to continue owning classics for example.
It may change my perspective on how to think about re-leasing or disposing of the current generation A320 or 737 though.
Great.
Well thanks and good luck with the rating agencies.
I think you should already be rated investment grade.
So I'd like to see it in that you're going after it.
And I wish you the best.
Thanks Mark.
The first question I have is on airlines and their decision between new aircraft and older aircraft and it's not with respect to fuel like Jamie asked earlier but on the airline side we've seen United say that it defers on some deliveries of new aircraft and instead say they would look to used market in order to maybe purchase or lease an aircraft because it just views the returns on those are better.
And to me they're looking at a Delta for example who has been able to buy older aircraft and make just as much money selling tickets as United has been able to.
So my question is are you seeing airlines come to you to try and lease older aircraft because of that economic decision irrespective of fuel because Delta made that decision way before fuel went down.
Are you seeing that trend being more broad-based? Yes.
It's different in different parts of the world.
I think U.S.
has been the leader in that respect.
Delta certainly gets credit for that.
We just extended leases on aircraft with United that were sort of mid-age 737 800s and we did likewise with Alaska.
The situation with Southwest is also similar.
I think the Europeans are starting to pick up on this as well.
The part of the world that's probably lagging is Asia in that regard.
They seem to be focused on new airplanes and I think the cost pressure is there we'll probably bring them around to that overtime.
And then the second question that I had was on lease terms.
When people asks us about the cycle we say well our aircraft lessors are clearly able to place planes pretty easily and you guys with only five planes open for '15 who have certainly been able to place your aircraft well ahead of time.
But as a counterargument to that we heard well lessors can place planes but the terms are different and sometimes they are now being loser or worst depending on what the definition is.
And so I guess I wouldn't necessarily ask you do you think that the ones that you've placed in '15 are on kind of lose or worst terms than you had previously? But if you want to answer that question it's fine.
If not are you hearing that around the industry that kind of in order to place the aircraft lessors are having to adjust maintenance conditions return conditions et cetera? No.
The terms are better.
This is a strong demand environment and I think our job is good stewards of these assets.
We should take advantage of these situations and take advantage of better competitive pressures negotiate not just longer-lease terms but better return conditions and better collateral coverage along the way.
And frankly just enter into deals with people who feel a little bit better about in terms of the lease term.
So all across the board I think it's been pretty healthy.
Now during times like this I think it's also a good to in general extend lease terms keep the lock-in for long as possible.
And conversely during a weak market you don't want to lock-in a lousy lease rental for a long period of time try to keep it short.
And we have pushed our average lease terms out in general as much as we can.
Just kind of getting back to the fleet management.
You chose to sell a decent amount of aircraft this year relative to your plans to have growth and you do have a healthy pipeline that you're going to be closing on over the next six months.
But just how do you balance your growth aspirations with the potential to term the portfolio where you see fit? It's a good question we think about it a lot.
What it boils down to is what do we think about any one particular aircraft whether the prospects are good over the medium or longer-term or whether this is a good exit moment.
And I think the history shows us that with all the ebbs and flows in the cyclical nature of our business that when there's an opportunity to dispose of an aircraft you don't have a strong conviction about you should do it.
And likewise there's a number of aircraft that we've sold where if we put ourselves in the buyers position we see the return is being lower than what we could redeploy.
And so if it's a big margin then we'll think about taking some chips off the table too.
It is a bit of a tension point though but I'm very happy and very comfortable with what we sold.
Another quick question on the investment grade rating possibility I guess outside of the obvious benefits of better rate on the term debt side.
Would you anticipate any other changes in funding mix? Like for example I know that there is some benefit utilizing some bank revolving facilities if they have some agency-related pricing attached to them as well.
So just maybe some thoughts on that would be great.
Yes.
I think clearly the cost of funding advantage of being investment grade is there and that's an obvious reason to pursue that.
The other and equally important thing is just the depth of the investment grade investor market substantially bigger than the high-yield market and more reliable and consistent through thick and thin overtime.
So the combination of being able to access capital when things might not look so rosy in the world that attractive rates which is when you find the best returns is one of the main reasons that we think an investment grade rating is important and can enhance the long-term return on equity in this business overtime.
And then I guess just from a flexibility standpoint I mean I know you have to kind of take time to tap into the term debt side but would that then therefore make other kinds of funding perhaps something that's a little bit more attractive than it's now? Yes.
I think you'll see margin improvement across each of the assets in forms of leverage that you look to imply.
To beat the ratings horse to death couple of follow-up questions.
One have you really quantified the benefit of an investment grade rating.
It's clear you get lower coupon et cetera but have you boiled that down to dollars and cents? Second when you talk to the agencies do they factor in at all the stability of your large owners? And three why bother with Moody's at this point they have significantly lower ratings for yourself and your competitors than S&amp;P.
Why not just go with S&amp;P and Fitch? I'll take a crack at the first one and this isn't a perfect estimate but I'll just give you an anecdote.
When we did our last unsecured bond yield I think it was April and it was eight year $0.5 billion deal about a week apart from ours was an air lease that's $0.5 billion deal for eight years also and their coupon was 1.5% less than ours.
I think during a good market 1% to 1.5% difference is probably a fair guess.
And I think it's broader wider during the weak market and maybe binary actually.
So I think it's important to acknowledge that you can't just press the reset button and expect that to happen all at ones but in time it's extremely powerful.
And what Mike said about giving us an ability to act in a weak market in terms of investing is really important.
So that was maybe hopefully a good answer for your first question.
I'll go to the Moody's question which is it's a good question.
I think at this point not a lot of people pay attention to that.
The rating is a function not of anything particular to Aircastle or our competitors but sort of a methodology that relates to monoline financial companies and it's something we think about.
And in regards to the discussions with rating agencies I think they are aware and certainly noticed that we have a change in the shareholder space.
During the last round of discussions say about a year ago Moody's I think took a soft watch when the Marubeni acquisition took place.
So we've had some tangible benefit from that.
Is that enough? I don't think so.
But I think there is some acknowledgement of that.
Just a quick question most of my questions have been answered an unfortunate part about being in this longer queue I guess.
The dividend increased the 10% you went up to $0.22 per share per quarter.
Can you give us a little bit of color around your decision to do that? I heard you loud and clear on the $100 million share repurchase as well and that's more opportunistic when you feel the opportunity is right.
But just a little bit of color on the dividend increase please and can we expect to see any further increases? So as we looked at what we've done so far this year and what we have queued up for the near-term and as we've done sort of at this time each year over the last few years we're looking at what we view as sort of the cash earnings power of this business which is our cash flow from operations less appreciation.
And we sort of sized our dividend and in this case our dividend increase around what we believe we're exhibiting in the growth of the asset base and the cash earnings base of business.
Over the long-term we've been paying out somewhere around 25% to 35% of cash earnings as dividends and we would expect to be able to continue this level of dividend growth to the extent we can continue to grow the business profitably.
Ron in the answer to a prior question I thought you had mentioned that in the last few weeks in particular there has been a surge of activity.
I don't know if I heard that right but I was hoping that you could elaborate on that? You heard that right.
And a good portion of the $750 million that we talked about is targeting for closing by the end of the first quarter of next year is captured by really recent activity.
We've found a number of transactions where either an airline has been waiting on another counterparty to deliver and lost its confidence in their ability to do so or a move by an airline to shore up liquidity by yearend.
And there is a host of individual kind of factors that kind of go with that but basically our ability to move quickly to be a credible counterparty to be seen as a reasonable long-term partner all factored in each of those deals.
I'm trying to understand how much of that is sort of opportunistic and maybe just sort of one-off opportunities that that cane up versus some sort of inflection or perhaps sustainable change in the market that's going on that's changed in literally the last few weeks or month or so? There has been a little bit of volatility in the broader economy and markets over the last few weeks.
I don't know if that's sustainable as that might have been just a short-term blip.
But our business model is all about being nimble and agile and having the tools to do so.
I wouldn't say that this is turning a corner or anything more than just we had a few bumps in the road that we took advantage of.
And Mike you made some comments about how to think about the dividend to the last question.
And I'm just curious how the notion of impairments factored into the sort of cash flow less depreciation framework.
There have been times in prior cycles when impairments rise significantly and perhaps the sustainability of those cash flows are questioned and we have to adjust the dividend to the down side.
How can we have confidence that cash flow less depreciation is really the right framework here? Well we don't really think about impairments in the context of what we call cash earnings.
We believe the impairment risk and what that entails is encompassed in our view of what we see over the near-to-intermediate term as the cash generating capability of these assets.
Taking a particular accounting step to reset an individual asset isn't reflective of what I believe.
And what I think we've demonstrated is the cash generation capability of this business from which we intend to pay dividend.
So we should not look at impairment activity as a read of future cash flow potential? No.
Mike your fourth quarter guidance includes $4 million to $10 million of gains on sale.
How many more planes does that contemplate selling and demographically are they comparable in H2 what you've been selling year-to-date? I don't really want to get into the specifics of the demographics if you will Gary.
It's a combination of some end-of-life stuff as well as some opportunistic selling of some mid-aged aircraft.
And the range frankly is just around the timing variability we see of course in transactions that we expect to close within the fourth quarter or perhaps could slip into the first quarter.
Also just one more did you say what the third quarter asset purchase dollar total was? I think we didn't talked about it in the remarks but it's in the materials for sure.
I think it was in the order of about $200 million.
Thank you very much for your time today.
If you have any other follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!